ParlaMint-DK_20210304100045	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill no. L 185 (Proposal for a law amending the law on aliens and the law on Denmark's accession to the Schengen Convention. Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. 193 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on increasing the defence budget to 2%) of bnp). Sikandar Siddique (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 194 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the re-establishment of the blasphemy clause). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 195 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution suspending the payment of child and youth benefits to EU citizens from Member States who do not accept their own citizens convicted of crime) and motion for a resolution No. 199 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the consistent expulsion of foreigners who have committed gang-related crime). Torsten Gejl (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 196 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on reduced VAT rates and increased tax credit for repairs and maintenance). Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and others Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 197 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility of deduction of losses in profits in previous years). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 198 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of the evaluation of municipal and state integration projects). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210304100229	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304100323	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Hav, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304100405	Thank you. It is often said that technology is developing at an explosive rate, and that is probably the reason for the legislative proposal we have before us today. Although it is a small legislative proposal, it is of course important to have the certainty that we can count on what comes into use when we use information and communication technology and the services and processes involved, that is what we expect to be able to use, and that, when we increasingly use computer technology, it makes it possible to handle complex processes. So long as the practitioners that these processes and products have real intentions, everything is fine. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. New opportunities create new loopholes for crime. It is therefore welcome that the government should present this bill, which helps to make life easier for people with real intentions and which opens up opportunities to get control of those who do not. Danish companies are very much using technology that extends into space around the globe. Data is stored in the cloud or used in countries over long distances. It makes demands on the real intentions and on the equipment it produces or uses. To make it easier for Danish manufacturers of equipment that can be used in the so-called cyber world, the bill introduces a certification option for companies. This means that customers for these products have a safety in terms of the fact that authorities have assessed and approved the products. This principle is known in many other contexts, including: in the case of safety equipment or equipment used where there are particular risks. And here it is the Danish Security Agency that is largely responsible for control, assessment and follow-up of production and products. When the products have, so to speak, got the blue stamp, it is the citizens' safety that they are in order. This, of course, gives producers a competitive advantage, which is achieved only by subjecting themselves to a number of requirements to meet a number of criteria, in order to ensure that the equipment is really in order. A certification shall demonstrate that the product has been carried out in accordance with one or more standards setting a certain level of safety. The bill assigns the task to the Security Board, which is the authority that has experience from other areas of certification or application in relation to the real intentions, also in practice. Fortunately, this is the Danish version of a follow-up to European cooperation, because it is appropriate for countries to work closely together to pursue good results, and just as cyber products know no borders. Social democracy supports the bill. And I have promised to say that so does the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304100715	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304100726	Thank you for that, President. We think that the purpose of L 174 is really good. This is an EU implementation which requires Member States to appoint a national authority for the certification of cybersecurity, and we also think it is very sensible that the Danish National Authority should be referred to here in Denmark as the Danish National Authority. After all, it provides the basis for the security certification of information and communication products and services and processes, which will help to break down barriers to trade in the European Union and ensure the necessary confidence in the technology products we use in the European Union. This is an extremely positive step, and we in the Left very much welcome it because it can help to create a better internal market for these products. Today there are far too great differences between the systems and standards used by the various EU Member States to certify technological products. It prevents a coherent digital internal market and creates both administrative and economic challenges for businesses wishing to launch a digital and secure product. The proposal will therefore increase the safety of individual consumers, facilitate product transparency and reduce the risk of cyber attacks. This will increase security and promote confidence in digitalisation, which is why we support the proposal. As with so much else, the devil is, of course, in the detail, and some of what we want to ask about in committee is, of course, in relation to the administration of this and how administrative trouble it will be to be certified, so that we make sure that small businesses also have the opportunity to take part in this and that they do not get any harder to compete than the larger companies because it gets too heavy. That is one of the things we would like to discuss. Then, of course, we also have to ensure that the Danish Security Authority has the right skills and resources to carry out the task, and we would also like to help create the right conditions for that. We look forward to the forthcoming committee reading, in which the Left will support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304100927	Thank you. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304100949	Thank you. Creativity is something that is performed in many different places by the flower decorator, by the master chef at the michelin restaurant. But creativity is also something that is being practised in criminal circles... unfortunately. And as you have gained more and more electronic communications routes and more and more industries that are somehow connected to electronics, this also means that, unfortunately, creativity has won in many of the places where you do not need creativity, namely in the field of fraud and in people who are trying to make easy money. That is also one of the reasons why, for years, we have had a European regulation on cybersecurity. There can be many good reasons for this. But there is, of course, the big thing that it has been shown that with the demand for a little more validity behind the various products there are a lot of both private consumers, but also business two business customers who want a greater balance between the different products and the credibility of services, which they reflect on, among other things. by buying them online. It can be in relation to ordinary IT products and services, and it can also be in relation to e.g. different processes. With this bill that the Minister has put forward, we will then repeal the existing regulation and introduce a new one. So, of course, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would also like to welcome the fact that an EU regulation is going away and that we will then replace it with someone who, in our view, will be better and more forward-looking than the one we have been used to. That's common sense. Then it is also clearly defined with the bill that the task of this is purely competence and authority to lie with the Security Authority. In relation to the content there is one place where Dansk Folkeparti will at least have things clarified a little extra, and that is in relation to the provisions that this bill also guarantees the legal basis for entering private companies' premises and so on in order to exercise the supervisory authority. In any case, we will put a question to the Minister so that we can see whether we are at 100%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. But overall, this is a sensible bill, and the Danish People's Party can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304101247	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304101314	Thank you. This proposal is incredibly important. After all, we have witnessed the development of a bit of a jungle in terms of communications services and information technology. It's all very good. After all, these are things that are a good support for the development of our modern society and for our great need to exchange information, and we can use it for a great deal. But, of course, it also brings with it some uncertainties that we need to be aware of. That is why this proposal is actually extremely welcome. After all, we need to ensure that the range of these communications services and information technologies is as secure as possible. After all, there is an increasing threat of cybersecurity, which will in future be a greater part of our security policy discussions, and this will require greater attention when we need to protect Denmark from external intrusions in various ways. That is why I believe that we need to have an extra watchful eye on communications services and information technology, which, of course, plays an enormous role, because if they are not sufficiently safe, there can be an incredible number of loopholes and pitfalls in these services and technologies. Therefore, I think that the certification of them and the ability to certify them, so that consumers can distinguish between dirt and cinnamon, are incredibly welcome, and we warmly support that. However, it is clear that we also need to ensure, when we make such a certification scheme, that certification also becomes proper, that there is transparency in certification and that there is proper control over it. That is why, of course, we in the SF are going to be very interested in controlling this: how is it done? How do we ensure a uniform and high standard of certification? We believe that this is the future to ensure a more dense and secure network in our communication and information technologies. Overall, I believe that we will support the proposal, but we are naturally looking forward to getting answers to some questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304101552	Thank you. There are no comments. Radical Left is covered, and then Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304101615	I can start with the conclusion: we are positive about the proposal. We believe that it is very useful to have such certification, a cybersecurity certification, and we also think that it is useful and good that we have a supervisory body, the Security Board, which is monitoring whether the ICT products that are delivered actually comply with the rules. That is why we are really very pleased that there are opportunities to withdraw certification and that there are also some opportunities to actually go in and do, what to say, a rather cash intervention in relation to companies that do not comply with the rules and all the things they are faced with, so that both the sale and supply of ICT products can be stopped and the supply of ICT products can be stopped. We actually think that is very good, and although there may be some who think that we shouldn't use too much of it, I'm just thinking that you have that tool and can actually go in quite clearly and accurately and then just stop producing something that is harmful to cybersecurity, we think that is a good thing. So, overall, we can just say that we think this is a useful and good bill. The only comment I might just like to make here is that, in relation to this role that our Security Board will have, it is also the case that there is another bill coming under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence, where it is the Centre for Cybersecurity, which, like it, stands as a control body in this context. And now we don't have that bill on the table here, but it's just for maybe to flag and ask the question here: is there some kind of authority overlap with the two types of security laws we make here? It's actually the only thing. However, the starting point is that we are positive about the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304101854	Thank you. Sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304101913	Thank you for that, President. We don't hear much about it, but we know it's going on: system crash, data breach and outright hacking. We have become digital, but our sometimes a little too easygoing, typically trust-based Danish approach, combined with a not always up-to-date view of the risk, tends to push many companies. Both in relation to the responsible employees who may start to think that it is a post office too late to mention that they are not fully dressed for the task, and for the responsible managements and managements who simply do not get priority to dress neither the company nor the employees on to the task. Too many companies have fallen in various fraud cases from counterfeit summer holiday letters to send money to the so-called stranded director, to outright hacker attacks with massive consequences. We only hear of a few, because of course no one wants to show that you may have slept an hour. And that is why it is very good that a new EU regulation on Cybersecurity has now been drawn up, which will of course also have to be implemented in Denmark. It is important to provide companies, primarily in the field of information and communication technology, with a voluntary opportunity to be certified so that customers and other stakeholders know that products and services are carried out at a certain level of safety. This can only be a good thing and we have no doubt that such certification can help improve the competitiveness of certified persons. It also makes sense to allow the Security Authority to supervise the certificate. That is why we support the Conservative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304102112	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304102132	It is not all that comes from the European Union that we are quite great fans of in New Citizens. I don't think it's gonna come as a secret. But this isn't the worst after all. We like it to be a voluntary arrangement, and we share those concerns about it with the legal certainty, but I am sure we will get that clarified during committee reading. So it has to be the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304102157	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304102210	We're voting for the bill. We think it is good to have a certification scheme for cybersecurity for products that have to meet some cybersecurity standards. It is good for consumers, it is good for businesses, and it is good that it is happening at EU level here. We are talking about an open market; a market where you as a Danish company buy in Germany or in France or where you as a French company buy in Denmark. And that is why it is very sensible to have a common standard in this area. Then there is the positive thing about the fact that it is voluntary, whether you want to participate, i.e. whether you want this certification, which is an offer to companies that they can show to potential consumers and say: We have the certification, so buy our product. That is why we do not share the scepticism that came from, I think it was Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, who is about the possibility of checking that things are in order, because that is the consequence of choosing to be in the scheme. You can choose not to do so, and then no one comes to visit and check if you have security under control. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304102320	Thank you. And then it's the business minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304102338	Thank you. And thank you for the many positive comments on the bill. If I should just briefly highlight the key points, then the purpose of the legislative proposal is to supplement the EU regulation on cybersecurity, which aims to strengthen IT security in Europe and consumer confidence in the many products that can be connected on the Internet, and to allow companies to demonstrate that their products, services or processes meet the relevant safety requirements. The proposed law on cybersecurity certification is intended to ensure that, from 28 June of this year, it will be possible for Danish companies on a voluntary basis, as has been pointed out sometimes, to have certified products, processes or services in the field of cybersecurity. The EU regulation is directly applicable in Denmark. This is the case with this kind of regulation, but there is a need for additional provisions on the exercise of authority in Denmark. And the law states that the Security Authority under the Ministry of Business will be the responsible authority in this area. In addition, there are a number of provisions on how the Security Board can supervise future certifications. These provisions concern in particular: supervision of the companies issuing the cybersecurity certificates themselves and the companies allowing their products to be certified. In this way, the law should help consumers and business to have greater confidence in the products, services and services in question. As you know, the bill has been submitted for consultation from 16 October to 19 November of last year. There have been a few consultation responses, all of which express support for the draft law and, in addition, have only a few comments. If I am already going to make a few comments on some of the points that have been made here today, I can start with the Left and Christoffer Aagaard Melson, who is asking about the costs here, particularly in relation to the smaller companies. In other words, it is true that it is the individual company that has to bear the costs of the certification process; I think that is quite common practice for certifications. And since it will be offered on market terms, it is difficult to assess where the level will lie and how it will affect the different sizes of companies we have. But that was just to make a few comments on it, and we can easily follow up on that part of the committee's work. It is clearly our assessment that there are the right competences in the Danish Security Authority, which the Left also raises as questions, but also also • and that is perhaps in fact an answer to Enhedslisten • that there will of course be a good collaboration with among others. Center for Cyber Security, so you get sparring in the supervisory assessments to be made. In addition to the Danish Security Agency with the primary function and Center for Cybersecurity as a sparring partner, the Danish Business Authority is also connected to it, so there is ongoing coordination and professional sparring. It is simply to address the question raised. Then it is just before that the Liberal Alliance has answered the question from DF about this intrudering if needed, or gaining access to businesses. I might just feel compelled to add that this is one of the provisions of the regulation: that the person who is competent in this area should be able to have access to all the premises of those called conformity assessment bodies or those who hold a certificate according to it here. So this is something that is going on there and that is suspended in the regulation. It must then be a concrete assessment whether this is necessary in order to obtain the information required. It may well be that the information can be obtained in other ways, and then it is unnecessary, but it is an approach which, I believe, also applies in the area of plumbing. So I'm not so worried about it. And as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also says, it's all connected to a voluntary assessment of whether you want to step into this scheme. But we can also draw closer to that in the work of the committee. Thank you again for the positive comments. And I look forward to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304102802	You're welcome. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304102808	Thank you. The Minister has no doubt about that in relation to what is being said, but I think, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, that I was well aware that this was a voluntary model. Then it's kind of settled. But if, for example, a person in Denmark chooses to register a car in Denmark, then you do so voluntarily, but there are some control options with the police to get into the car, etc. And this is done under the protection of the Danish constitution. That is why the question is very clear. One has to look at whether this has any consequences in relation to the violation of private property rights, etc. I'm just asking for a legal note saying it doesn't. I don't really see the context here, that is, where you say: Well, my God, this is voluntary, so as a company you can just choose to say no to that. But you can, as I say, too, if you choose, for example. Not having a car. But there are rights and obligations, and this is also the case in this case. We just need to make sure that it is legally linked. That was most of all a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304102915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304102917	I take it down that way too, and I am quite sure that we can also make a satisfactory response in print, hopefully. I was actually just trying to supplement by saying that where we certify in other areas it may be certificates of companies working with electricity, plumbing etc. So it's not such a whole new thing. But I hear the request, and we will deliver it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304102945	I would like to thank the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304103005	The debate is open, but we are waiting for the Minister for a moment. We'll just breathe and see if there's a minister coming. It might be an advantage to have a minister present! It cannot be the weather that has caused the Minister to be late, but we are pleased to see the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries now and for cats. Then we will start the debate on paragraph 4 and Mr. Anders Kronborg from the Social Democratic Party is the first rapporteur on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304103140	Thank you so much. The bill we are dealing with here is a change in the law on trade and road safety, and that does not really sound very formal, but it does not sound very technical either. However, I would like to say that this is actually a very important change that we are discussing here today, and it is also a matter that we have discussed in this Chamber on a number of occasions, and we have also discussed it bilaterally. It's about our four-legged friends, about our cats. We know that at the moment there are a great many cats coming into our shelters. We also know that many cats are not labelled, and we also know that there is some administrative trouble when these cats are shown, because once they have entered the shelters, they must be shown for 72 hours, for example. must be placed on the Internet. We also know that there are many who do not subsequently get their owners back, but where the internationals are going to find new owners for these cats. We have discussed it thoroughly with each other • whether there are any incentives that can make that more will consider labeling their cats. We have also discussed whether it is possible to create initiatives to alleviate bureaucratic pressure on the international community. And there we have come to the conclusion that it makes good sense to change the law of the field and of road peace, in which we create increased incentives for people to choose to feel their taxes in the way of volunteering. With this bill, if the cat is not marked with ear tattoo, collar or, for that matter, a built-in chip, you can deal more quickly, if you may say so, the cat. This means that all cat owners know that it would be a real, really useful thing to label your cat if it were to run away. What I also think is good about this bill is that we have actually introduced an evaluation practice. We know, as I have said, that at the moment there are a great many cats entering the shelters, but we do not really know why. The University of Copenhagen points out that it is because the internationals make an extraordinary effort and great praise for it. Our intention is that more cats should be labelled, and therefore it would also be sensible to evaluate this scheme fairly closely to its adoption, and I therefore welcome the fact that it says in fact that two years after this law has been adopted, we are evaluating this scheme and looking at whether it has worked and whether further improvements need to be made. In fact, I think that this is common sense, and I really think that the most important and best thing is if we can make legislation in here that can be enforced and that is common sense at the same time and that, in this case, can make life better for our cats. In those words, I would like to say that I am satisfied with the amendments proposed by the Minister. I think the Minister has listened, even when we discussed a motion for a resolution on cats there was this agenda also on the wallpaper and was discussed here in Parliament. So, as I said, I am satisfied with the amendments to the Law on the Field and Road Peace, but, of course, like all possible other times, I am willing to discuss various aspects of the committee's proceedings. However, as it is here, I think it would be very sensible if we expressed our support for this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304103601	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304103606	Thank you. That is a step along the way, I recognise it, but I do not think it is large enough, and it may not be entirely surprising either, either, to either the rapporteur or the minister. I simply cannot believe that if you are going to stand in this Chamber and negotiate this again, you are not going to take the step in full and say that this has to be compulsory. I am quite sure that in some time we will be standing here again because a compulsory system is needed, and that is why I sincerely do not understand that we are not doing it instead. We have animal protection organisations behind a compulsory system, and I think that is quite important, and the consultation answers say the same thing: that should be the case. I honestly don't understand why people aren't saying, okay, so we make it mandatory.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304103655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304103657	Thank you very much for that question. I fully acknowledge that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has taken an interest in this matter and I also fully acknowledge that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has a great interest in this matter. I choose to keep the focus on the fact that I think it is incredibly good that action has actually been taken within a period of government and one and a half years, so things are going the right way in terms of cat labelling. I know that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has, after all, been a parliamentary basis for a blue block in the past, where no initiatives were taken to get this on the right track, so I welcome these initiatives. Then I would just like to say to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard that for the next two years, when we are following this closely, after which it has to be evaluated, we must keep a close eye on whether this creates the desired improvements in relation to our cats, and if it does not, then I do not disagree with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard that we will have to delve further into matter. But it is estimated that this will help the cats, and that is what matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304103809	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304103811	It is a good thing that everything we say here in the Folketing is reported, because then, when it does not work, as I am quite sure it will not at some point, I will take up what has been said so that we can take the step and make it compulsory. I will keep the rapporteur and the government, no matter which government sits, on that. And then I do not think it is quite appropriate to say that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard could not get the Blue Government on board either. No, we could not, and I think that is a pity, but I am quite cold about whether it is a socialist-led government or a government led by the Left, the Conservative, the Danish People's Party, what I know, because what it is all about for me is getting it implemented, and I do not think it should be tried to shoot me other in the shoes, because I am trying everything I can, regardless of which government is sitting and I have not yet given up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304103858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304103859	The greatest recognition and the greatest respect for it. Nor should there be any doubt that my focus as rapporteur here alone has been on cats. We must also remember, when we read the hearing answers on the matter, that there are other organisations that actually support this scheme and believe that this system is the right way to go. That is also why I am saying that I am really glad that an evaluation has been incorporated into this scheme so that we can follow it carefully here, can thoroughly evaluate it with each other and then have a thorough talk with each other afterwards. I am of the opinion that this will help, and I am also of the opinion that this will make it considerably less bureaucratic for the internationals, so that they can actually use their energy to help our animals rather than to create bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304103948	Thank you, sir. Anders Kronborg. There are no more brief comments. That's why we're gonna go over to mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Denmark Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304104009	Thank you. In the last year, there has been an increase in the number of cats lodged in the country's international waters. After all, the previous rapporteur has examined the draft law, so I shall not go further than just saying that with the legislation in force it is difficult to pass on runaway cats. This means that, in several situations, cats are going to spend disproportionate time on the internationals, which also increases the pressure on the internationals and the costs and the trouble, you might say, for the internationals. This bill will then change and hopefully help, as runaway cats without marking or chip can move on to a new home, a new owner, you might say. We in the Left think this is a good idea, as it also provides an incentive to label your cat, if you as a cat owner want to get your cat under control, you can say, because if it should run away, you can get it back. At the same time, it should also be very happy to facilitate the work of the animal shelters. For the Left, it has been crucial that the amendment of the rules does not mean a labelling obligation for cat owners. In the countryside, it is also very common to have so-called "non-cats', and in those situations we do not think there is any reason to require the labelling of these cats. On the other hand, we can say that if you do not feel your cat, you will of course run the risk that it may run away and end up in a shelter and thus be passed on. We think that this is a good legislative proposal which addresses the issues raised by the internationals in particular. So now the cat owners themselves are responsible for their cats and have the opportunity to feel them so that they can keep track of it. So the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304104215	You're welcome. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304104245	On 19 May last year we debated the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party on a law on cats. A key part of the proposal was the establishment of a compulsory labelling scheme for cats. About one in five households in Denmark has a cat, but only one in four cats are marked or registered, and there are many stray cats. Cats that are not registered cannot, as you know, be traced back to an owner. This leaves the internationals with a huge task when handling unmarked and unregistered cats. As I also mentioned during the debate on our motion for a resolution, 40% was submitted in 2019. more cats than the previous year, and that figure will probably not be smaller in the years to come. Many families have acquired pets as a result of the corona epidemic, and unfortunately it is the case that some people have not completely made up for themselves, what it actually takes when you have a pet, and therefore they will also regret it. That is why, unfortunately, we must expect more stray cats in the future. For the same reason, we in the Danish People's Party also wanted a compulsory labelling system which would ensure that the responsibility for the cat rests with the owner, while at the same time relieving the internationals of the quite insurmountable task they are faced with at the moment. Now the government has come up with a bill to amend the rules, which unfortunately does not meet the Danish People's Party's view that a compulsory labelling system should be what we did. Instead, the government wants to relax the rules for the presentation of cats so that they can be transmitted more quickly, and make unmarked cats the property of the recorder, as the proposal says, "a cat that is not labelled, you can keep if you find it. It is against this background that the government hopes that more will choose to label their cat. But as the hearing answers show, it is nothing more than a rewarding hope. Among the interest groups which advocate mandatory cat labelling are the Danish Veterinarian Association, the Animal Health Council, the Animal Protection Council and the Tullebo Cat Home. They all agree that a continued voluntary labelling system is not sufficient. The Minister's predecessor stated that it would be cost-effective for the police if there were a mandatory labelling scheme because the police would then have to use resources to investigate who a cat belonged to. That argument has been dropped today, with the Minister's proposal, because in the future unmarked cats can, of course, be passed on immediately. On the other hand, there is no longer a need for any kind of police investigation. If a cat is visible, it is quite easy to find the owner, and it will not normally require the police to intervene, but only to contact the owner. Without a compulsory labelling system which will undoubtedly reduce the number of unmarked cats, internationals will still be left with a major task of finding new owners for unmarked cats. They may no longer need to use force to find the original owner, but a new home still needs to be found. In the Danish People's Party we therefore continue to believe that there is a need for a mandatory labelling system with a visible label, and we find it difficult to understand why there is so much resistance in the system to a labelling system when so many interest groups are calling for exactly this instrument to ensure equality between dogs and cats and to reduce the number of straying and stray cats, and especially when all kinds of bends are being made to promote connection to a voluntary labelling scheme. Why not just bite to fuck and set up the compulsory labelling system that so many people are asking for? In any case, we reserve the right to table amendments on this particular point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304104642	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304104647	Thank you very much to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party. When I have discussed this here about a compulsory labelling scheme for cats, I have not yet been convinced of how such a compulsory labelling system should be enforced if necessary. I think that if you make legislation in Denmark, you should also be able to enforce the law. So I would like to ask Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard because I understand that there will be an amendment to the bill, and that is why I also find it useful to have some suggestions on how to enforce such a compulsory labelling system if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304104729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304104731	Thank you. Yeah, but it's no different than if it were, for example. is a dog. Well, it's exactly the same thing. When you acquire a cat, like when you buy a dog, there must be labelling, and we will of course draw attention to this in the amendment we are proposing. I'm not saying this proposal is useless. I'm not saying it's a step on the way. But why not take the full step? I'm gonna think we're gonna do it right when we're going to evaluate this scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304104804	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304104806	I think we can already see that there are some positive trends, because according to the figures and information I have at least, there are approx. 15% of the cats that have an owner at the moment are not labelled, i.e. only 15%. So that's the last 15%. Here, we need to take part in labelling. And then we must also remember that there is a great difference between the intentions of the law with regard to dogs and cats, among others. Because of the law that was introduced, it became responsible with the marking of dogs, just as we do not have nearly as many people and luckily for the stray dogs that are walking around. So I also welcome this, because I understand that the rapporteur is not positive, but recognises that this is at least a step in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304104900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304104902	Well, I certainly do. And I also believe that there is a reason why we have the debate, because, fortunately, it also gets out and is taken note of around the international community and of people who have to deal with animals, but also around the community. So of course there will be more who do it voluntarily, but I just don't believe it's enough and I still don't do that. I don't believe that's enough. What I could well fear, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, is all the animals which, I am afraid, land on an international market because people are buying pets at the moment. What do you really have to do with time, right? Then you can have a pet. Unfortunately, not everyone is fully aware of the very, very big task, whether it is a dog or a cat and there we have a problem especially in relation to the cats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304104948	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304104951	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for her speech. I think it was very good, and I also think it is clear that the Danish People's Party has actually played a key role in fighting for an improvement in legislation, so much praise for it. However, I would like to hear Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard reflect a little on why the Danish People's Party is so indignant when it comes to such things as cats, while in relation to animal welfare and animal rights, as far as all kinds of other species are concerned, there does not seem to be such a great commitment. At any rate, I think it is a little problematic if what we, as animal welfare rapporteurs, particularly consider to be the important thing is whether the animals have some particular role in our own lives, or whether they are somehow of use to us, or whether the cute ones, or whatever they are, in relation to the fact that the Danish People's Party is often so dedicated when it comes to cats, while, if it comes to pigs, cows, chickens or similar animals, you are not entirely willing to take the same fight. How come you make this difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105051	That is simply not true. I mean, I'm really wondering about this. I should like to say many times that when the Danish People's Party was founded in 1995, we were the first party to have an animal welfare policy, and we were the first party to have an animal welfare rapporteur. There were not really any parties who had taken an interest in this before. Fortunately, it is now all the parties that have gone into this issue, and I think that is very, very good. Whether it is production animals, pets, animals in the wild or wild animals, or what I know about animal markets or wet markets in China, I think we should be very interested in it. I am very, very indignant, because my heart is beating very, very strongly on animal welfare, and I simply do not think what the rapporteur says is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105141	I am pleased that the rapporteur will be indignant, because it is also an important area, but I find it difficult to imagine that the Danish People's Party, for example, will be able to do so. would expose cats to the same conditions that have been subjected to mink for years, despite the fact that the Danish People's Party's rapporteur has warmly defended mink production in the debate we have had here. I also find it difficult to imagine that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party would think that it was okay to treat cats as they treat piglets and pigs in general in animal production. I have seen pictures of Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard in a pig factory where she has a small pig who is entitled to 0.65 m2 throughout its life. I mean, I think there's a difference between what relationships you want to give cats and then all sorts of other species, but I'm glad about the indignation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105223	But is that pig entitled to more square meters because I don't visit a pig production? Well, I am actually saying that I am interested in the area and I would like to visit the various areas, and I would like to hear what is actually happening and I will continue to do so. I've been doing that my whole political life. And, frankly, to put it bluntly, I think that the comment about mink could be made by Mr. Carl Valentin well failed in the time we find ourselves in. I can use many words to tell you how mink has been treated after you thought they were mass killing. I can use a lot of words on that. I think it was directly abhorrent, and what did Mr. Carl Valentins's party and other parties that were for this killing, in that case? Nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105303	Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105306	Mass killing... that's what I thought was an interesting word. After all, they all or most of them had to be killed at some point. Well, we're not going to discuss mink today. We're gonna discuss cats. We have also given it a really serious consideration whether we should fight for a compulsory labelling system, and we cannot yet reject that either. We are very much looking forward to the evaluation to see if it is necessary, but what has made us in doubt is two things: what is the sanction if you are caught in not having felt your cats? And how are we supposed to investigate, pursue, enforce such a law? Is it only when an unmarked cat enters a shelter that the law has to be enforced? And shall there only be a punishment, and what shall that punishment be if any owner then comes and says, "This is my cat?" Or will it be a requirement that is simply not being followed up and not sanctioned? That is to be honest what has made us in doubt whether it was the right way to go, and therefore I am very much looking forward to hearing whether Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has a bid for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105424	Thank you, Mrs. Zenia Stamp. I think it is a good thing if we have had some reflections and that we may be able to do so precisely when we have to have that evaluation. I think that's really good. How and how and how the penalty is to be imposed, I do not think it is usually discussed when you come up with a legislative proposal. But I think it would be appropriate, when we get further into those discussions, to consider how to enforce it, how to effect it. But I have to say that it must be exactly the same as when you pass some law here in Denmark that you find out what we follow up afterwards and what the authorities are doing in order to follow up on the legislative proposals that we are adopting here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105506	Well, now that the government's main argument for not pursuing the objective of a mandatory scheme is the resource move of the police and that is also the sanction, I cannot understand why Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party, who have fought for this long and full respect for it, are not trying to go into that field and then become more specific in terms of what the resource trait will be, what a realistic sanction will be. Because if that's the counter-argument, that's where you have to meet it. That is why I would just like to call on Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard to drill down these issues a little more in committee, because at least they are the ones we have listened to and have also done that we support the proposal today, but that is also where we might be convinced of something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105552	The last one still sounds good. But unlike when we discussed the Danish People's Party's proposals earlier, the government has not really touched on the resources this time, and I actually see it as a positive thing that the government does not actually affect it in this bill. So that is not what makes it great; I do not believe for a moment. It is clear that all legislation where you intervene and where there must be some bans is also where we are in relation to this • will cost some kind of resource, of course. It's like anything else where we intervene, and I just think we should put our heads behind it, that's how it is. But it can improve the conditions for the internationals, and it can improve the conditions for the cats, and that is really why the Danish People's Party is very concerned about this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105640	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no more brief comments. And welcome to Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304105659	Thank you. I am really sorry that the debate was a little heated just now, because it was not really my intention to criticise the Danish People's Party. I actually meant it sincerely when I said that I think that the Danish People's Party has played a key role in fighting for better regulation for cats. However, I understand that the waves are going a little high, because in my optics there are very double standards associated with the whole animal welfare debate and how we allow ourselves to treat different species. I think we should talk openly about this, because it is quite obvious that there are very, very different legislation in this area and very, very different approaches to how we treat different animals, depending on the species they belong to. Well, let me come back to the proposal. So, as a relatively new rapporteur in this area, I have tried to get a good look at it. It is clear that it has been debated for a very long time and, in particular, this compulsory labelling scheme for cats, which was also up just now. So thank you to the Minister and thank the government for finally taking action in this area, which has been under discussion for a long time. And, actually, I'm also grateful to Mr. Mogens Jensen, if he happens to be watching cat debate from his office. I had time to discuss it with him before we got a new minister and before he resigned, and I am glad that the work was started then. Although I may not think that the proposal goes quite far enough, it is certainly a step in the right direction, and I very much appreciate that. The pressure on the internationals is great and, for the sake of cats, I think it is absolutely essential that we ensure that more people are labelled and that we have a smoother case. A study from the University of Copenhagen has shown that 25 per cent. It is unacceptable that the owners' cats should be unmarked, and that is totally unacceptable. And I think it's amazing that for so many years in here we have been standing by while various international organisations have been calling out about this problem. So it's good that something is happening now. When you read the consultation answers, it is clear that many of those who really care about animals do not think that the proposal here goes far enough, among other things. The protection of animals, and I agree with that criticism. However, I am pleased that it has been introduced that we will have to evaluate the scheme in a few years' time, and here I hope that the government will promise that further initiatives will be taken if this is not sufficiently effective. I also think it would be appropriate to look at a compulsory labelling system in a situation where this does not work, as we are hoping for. So I hope the government will take that along. The protection of animals also has an important proposal in the consultation answer that the obligation to neutralise owners' cats should be introduced, such as for example. has got it in Sweden. And I would like to hear the Minister's position on that. So, many kittens for whom nobody wants to take responsibility come into the world every year, and I think it is heartbreaking to see that there are people who dump kittens in cardboard boxes. Well, it shows that there are some people who have absolutely no empathy for other living sensory beings. And we must do everything we can from in here to ensure that no animal suffers such a fate. I also think that the Danish Veterinarian Association has a good point in that the absence of animal-specific legislation for cats means that the status of cats is still perceived as lower than some other animals. And now that we have to implement the new animal welfare law and look at the announcements, it might be good if the Minister would address the problem that there is no animal species-specific legislation for cats. I recently found out that the same applies to rabbits, for example, and in general I think it seems a little strange that we have some animals we keep in our care in one way or another, for which there is no animal species-specific legislation at all. In other words, different species have different needs, and we should always take this into account in the legislation. At the Danish Veterinarian Association and Animal Protection, there is also a point in the consultation answers that several tagged cats could benefit from effective detection against zoonoses, for example. Covid-19. And I think that both the prevention of future epidemics and the effective fight against infection should be a much higher priority in the future. So I think that is a good point and another good reason why we are keeping a close eye on whether this legislation is sufficient and will work as we wish. But thank you once again for the bill, which I think is good. The Socialist People's Party supports this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304110111	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304110114	Well, thank you very much to the SF rapporteur for a balanced and good speech, I think. One of the benefits of having a five-year-old daughter, what I have, is that you start to revisit all the disney classics at home. And not long ago we sat and saw Aristocrats, where there are both cats with fine collar that have an owner and where there are these backyard treasures. You know, they've always been there. What I think is worrying and, as I think we should do in this debate, is that the assessment is that cats without owners have exploded. So, some actual figures are of course that it is estimated that from 2004 to 2017 there has been an increase of 250 per cent. in relation to cats lodged in international waters. And I really believe that when we are going to have that debate about what we do for cats that do not have owners, the debate must also be based on facts. There I am one of those who really look forward to the conclusion by the University of Copenhagen of a research project targeted at these cats who do not have owners, and they do so here in 2022. So I just want to hear the SF's rapporteur if he does not agree with me that when that statement comes, it is obvious that we will then have a discussion in relation to all those cats that do not have owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304110237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304110238	I very, very much agree with that. I think it is extremely important. The fact that there have been more cats without owners is a big problem. And I also think that the obligation to neutralise, as I mentioned earlier, could perhaps be a tool in the box to reduce that situation in the future. But yes, I think so, absolutely. Let us discuss this. The SF is happy to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304110259	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304110259-2	That is also why I think this bill is so good: we know that the internationals are doing a great job, a really good job. And this bill is aimed at removing all that unnecessary bureaucracy for the internationals, so that the internationals can do what they do best, namely to help the animals, for example. also ensure that sterilization works. So even if the rapporteur says that this is not enough, I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he does not recognise that this is a right step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304110312	Well, I certainly accept that. Well, I think this bill is clearly going in the right direction. I hope that will be the case. I certainly think it is a very good proposal that we are dealing with here, and the SF supports it. And I think it's gonna work. The question is whether it works enough, and we shall see when we have to evaluate the legislation in a few years' time. I look forward to that very much. But yes, great recognition, both to the government and to the Minister and to the Social Democratic Party and to the former minister and those who have been fighting for this for several years; that something should happen here. I think we are heading in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304110408	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin, and after despriting, I would like to welcome Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304110434	Thank you. After all, this is a case that has been going on for a very long time, even long before I even knew that there was a problem, to say it as it is. I became an agricultural rapporteur after the elections, and that was probably a year and a half ago, and some of the first people to come knocking on my door were the animals' protection and DOSO to speak of cats. I'd like to sign for that if you're out there. You have worked for this for a long time, you have worked dedicated, committed and seriously, and it is not least your merit that we today deal with it in the Folketing. But that was already a year and a half ago, and I remember we had a turn with the Minister. It was then not with the current minister, but with Mogens Jensen back in March. I think it was one of the only agreements we made there in the spring, where otherwise we all had only corona in our heads, and now we are finally here to deal with it in the Assembly. After all, it is a discussion we have had with the government over a long period of time and, to put it bluntly, we have also had doubts as to whether we should go for the compulsory system, because that is what the Animal Protection and the Veterinarians' Association have proposed and had very good arguments in favour of. On the other hand, we have to note that DOSO, which also organises a number of animal welfare organisations, among others. The Cat's host and Inge's Cat's Home are happy with this solution. And that is why we really think we have hit the right cut, where we start by changing the reporting obligation, so that we make it easier, cheaper and less bureaucratic for the internationals, and also better for the cats, because they can be transmitted quickly. But where we also create an incentive to feel your cats if you want to be sure to get the cat back home if it runs away. And there we think this proposal is a very good step. But we are also very pleased that an evaluation has been carried out so that we can see whether we are now achieving the results we want and whether we are seeing increased labelling of cats, so that we can do something about those 15-25 per cent, which are not labelled today. And then there is still the question of all the wild cats who never enter a cat's home. One can say that it does not really make any difference whether there is a compulsory scheme or whether it is this scheme, because they are out there. And perhaps there is more to it about sterilization in relation to the rules there, which we may also be able to address in the context of the evaluation, which should of course have a slightly broader aim, namely the welfare of cats, so to speak. And so, in addition to that, as Mr. Carl Valentin said that a more animal-specific approach to the individual species would be really beneficial, because there are different things that apply. That is why I would also like to sign up for the animal protection consultation answer, because I think that has been a very constructive contribution. We haven't ended up there in the first place, where they want us to end up. But I can also see that they sign up for the evaluation and want to take an active part in it, and I would just like to say that I am very pleased that the Animal Protection has chosen to go so constructively on this matter. Thank you for that and we have really listened to your arguments, even if we do not go to the mandatory scheme with this proposal. But it will not be completely lost from our considerations, and some of what I asked Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard about is something that we will examine ourselves in the future. In other words, if we see that this step does not achieve the necessary results, and instead of rethinking a mandatory system, what does it mean in terms of resource features, what does it mean in terms of level of sanctions? But what does that mean in relation to the social balance? One can imagine that some of those who do not get the mark of their cats today may not be some of the most resourceful people. Of course, the law is equal for everyone, but of course you also need to consider whether you need a lot of resources to dunk some people in the head that might need a completely different kind of help to remedy this problem. So there are a lot of perspectives in it, but we will all be serious about that. That is why I can only say today that we support the draft law, but we also support the warm, constructive dialogue with those who wanted to go further. And we hope that they will be particularly active in following this step so that in two years we can sit together and see if we have come far enough or if there is still something we can pick up. Possibly. a compulsory scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304110907	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no brief remarks, none at all. After despriting, I would like to welcome Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20210304110936	Thank you. Enhedslisten supports the bill. After all, this bill will relieve the internationals who are currently having to keep cats for three days before they can give them a new home. We think it is very good that we are taking that step now. The law does not change anything for the cats that are earmarked, and I think it would be really important if someone were to listen to this debate, or see it mentioned, that they are going to get their cat earmarked so that they have a better chance of getting the cat back if it runs away. I think it is really important to point out here that we have organisations that work for better conditions for our livestock and the organisations that have engaged in cat conditions have really done a good job. I hope that they will also interfere when it is the case that we have to evaluate the law in just over two years' time and that they will then also help to influence us. Because it's the case with laws that you can't say they're 100 percent. right, and I can see the advantages of finding that there must be compulsory labelling of cats, and thereby achieving what should be said about perhaps a slightly greater commitment to having a farm animal. So Enhedslisten supports the bill, and we're looking forward to this evaluation in two years. And then I think there should be one last call for people who have cats to have it earmarked.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304111117	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, so we'll be right over to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304111144	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by saying that we in the Conservative People's Party support the proposal. It is, of course, debureaucratizing and more administratively easy to deal with, so we think it is very sensible to make this more flexible way of dealing with it. There's a big difference between how to hold a cat. Some have a pet cat, most of them. And then there is also the great advantage of cats that they like to eat mice. Out in the countryside, the cat is a useful animal, understood in the sense that it keeps the mouse population down, and it is really useful and productive in many ways that the mouse population is kept down. There are lots of cats in the countryside who have a very good life, who thrive in the herd and who are fed and cared for and in every way are very well, but who have the primary function of keeping the mouse population down. If one imagines that there are a handful of cats or two on large agricultural buildings, then it is also a considerable cost to have them marked and registered. That's why we're a little skeptical about the permanentization of having to register all cats. But let's see now when this law has to be evaluated how we get around it; but I think it would be a great burden if it were the case that you had to register all those cats, who typically stay on the property where they are now and are well and where they don't run anywhere and never end up in an shelter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304111355	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304111359	I think that this is an interesting observation made by the rapporteur, and I also think that the speech made by the rapporteur is a bit contrasting in relation to the speech we heard from the Enhedslisten rapporteur, who urged the owners of cats from the platform to label their cats. The rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party calls it a great burden if you in the countryside, I understand it at least, are going to feel your cats. I stand here with the prices for labelling. If you want to feel your cats, for example. If you choose a chip label, it costs between DKK 300. and 450 DKK, and if you choose an ear tattoo instead, it costs between 400 DKK. and 700 kr., and whether it is a cat that is in a barn in a flock, I think the call from Enhedslisten is very valuable, because if a cat runs away, it wants to return to its flock. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the prices I read will be a great burden.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304111509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304111510	Yes, that is what I said, i.e. that it was a burden, and I think it is. If it's the case that you have an agricultural property where there's a big cat team that can be 5, 10, 15 pieces for that matter... then I think it's a burden if it's the case that you have to keep making sure they're tagged and registered in the cat register, and I don't think it's necessary. However, if it were for the Social Democratic Party to take the view that all cats should be labelled, it could have been suggested that there should be a duty to do so, and I do not see that the Social Democratic Party has proposed this, so I wonder a little bit about the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304111548	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304111550	The intention is clearly that more cats should be labelled in Denmark, and that is what we are calling for with this incentive scheme. I fully recognise that this system can avoid marking your cats, but it is also possible, even if you have a compulsory system, because the challenge is how to enforce it. But I will then ask in another way. Have I understood the rapporteur in that way that the rapporteur does not agree with the call made by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, namely that those who own the cats should hurry to register them, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304111623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304111624	In other words, it is quite appropriate if you have a cat and you live in a town-neighbourly area where cats can go around to neighbors and elsewhere, that the cats are marked, quite clearly because it relieves that burden in relation to enforcement by the authorities. When the cat is marked, it is to be dealt with, because then you can quickly find out if the cat is. But out on an agricultural property where there is a large cat herd living in a herd, I simply do not think it is a good idea to start demanding that those cats should be labelled, because I am convinced that that is not where the problem is. It is the internationals who have the problem, where it is typically city cats, who in some way may stray too far from where they live and who are then admitted because somebody feels sorry for them when they stand and look hungry. All of a sudden, you have the problem. It does not take place on an agricultural property, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304111724	Thank you, sir. Per Larsen. There are no more brief comments. I see that the New Civil and Liberal Alliance does not want to use the speaking time today, and unless I have seen it wrong, I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Fisheries, including for cats and other pets.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304111751	I would also like to start by thanking the many committed citizens, the many committed organisations, and the many active politicians who have helped to make this improvement in the conditions of cats with this proposal. I would also like to thank the politicians in this Chamber for the good and constructive debate, where we listen to each other, take stock of what each other says and are willing to find solutions together. That's a good thing. There is no doubt that there are many attitudes towards cats; there are also many uses for cats. Sir. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party said that there are pets, but there are also utility cats that catch mice. I myself often think of the cozy cartoon character Garfield when I think of cats. Cats, however, differ from most other domestic animals and pets because they appear in several different roles, and that is what is like the point here, and that is also what Mr. Per Larsen was in on cats can be pets, and they can also be commercial animals, as Mr. So Per Larsen was talking about. But unfortunately, in recent years, these cats have experienced an increasing approach of stray domestic cats. For example: The eight shelters of the Animals were submitted in 2019. 9,000 cats. That was 40%. More than usual, and that is something we have to take seriously. There is a need to help the internationals in their work to give the submitted cats new homes. We must therefore create a better framework for a smoother procedure for both the admission of cats to the shelters and their dissemination. In addition, we must create an increased incentive for cat owners to get the label and register their cats, and I really liked the call that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten came with all cat owners: Remember to get your cats tagged • It's a good idea. I am glad that there is broad support in this House for this objective. One of the points that has been discussed is whether there should also be a compulsory labelling system, and we have heard that, among other things. Danish People's Party Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard strongly argued in favour. There may be arguments for this, as we have heard in this Chamber, but I do not believe that a compulsory labelling system is the way forward, especially because it will be very difficult, heavy and resource-intensive to enforce. And I am not in favour of rules that are difficult to enforce or that can be very heavy and resource-intensive to realize. There are probably those who will say: Ah, you couldn't pull yourselves together and walk all the way. There may also be some who would even accuse us of being lazy. And here I allow myself, in all due respect for this important matter, to remind Garfield again, because there is a rather cozy quote by Garfield, which says: I am not lazy, just extremely motivated by not doing anything. And I think it's worth drawing on the smile tape, even if it's a very serious matter we're dealing with here. Now, when we talk about this, about whether we should go all the way or not, and whether we should meet Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's objective that all cats should be labelled, I think it is worth noting, as several rapporteurs have also said, that we have put up with the draft law here, which I am pleased that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard says is a step in the right direction, that we should evaluate after two years. And that means that there is an opportunity to gain experience of how this bill has worked, but also in dialogue with relevant organisations to look at whether we need to do something more, whether we need to take another step and whether it will be possible to do so. In this evaluation, emphasis will be placed on whether the changes have resulted in increased labelling of cats and thus the desired reduction in the submission of unmarked cats to the internationals. The draft law here therefore proposes that the rules be amended so that the reporting obligation for unmarked cats is abolished and the ownership of these cats is then automatically transferred to the recorder. This means that the internationals can transmit unmarked cats immediately, and also tagged cats that are not picked up can be transmitted if the owner has not responded within 24 hours of being informed of the inclusion. In addition, internationals should not use resources for the projection of the cat. I expect that this will significantly reduce the administrative burden on the international community, which has been one of the intentions of this proposal. The interns themselves have also indicated that the abolition of the forecast period would provide a not insignificant administrative relief. It will of course continue to be the case that the owner of a label and registered cat must be informed within 24 hours of the recording and informed that the owner has a period of 24 hours to pick up his cat. We're not gonna change that. Nor is there any change in the fact that there is no obligation under the legislation to label its cat. The labelling of cats will thus continue to be voluntary for the owners, but we can, as has also been said in this Chamber, call for people to do so because it will be appropriate in many different ways. It is the wish and expectation that you as a cat owner take responsibility for your animal, and I therefore expect that a cat owner who wants to retain his cat will ensure that the cat is labelled and registered. I hope and believe that this amendment of the law will help to reduce the number of stray cats caught and to alleviate some of the pressure on the cats' shelters. In conclusion, I look forward to a good and constructive discussion of this legislative proposal in committee, and I also look forward to us evaluating the legislative proposal in two years' time and looking at what we shall learn from it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112415	Thank you. There are a few brief comments to be made, first to Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112419	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I think there were many good points, and I am also very pleased that we are now dealing with this bill, which I certainly think is a step in the right direction. We have this evaluation in two years' time, as the Minister also mentions. I think this is very important and I know that it has also been done to accommodate some of the organisations and some of us who may not think that we are going quite far enough in relation to this. I would just like to know whether the Minister is ready to promise today that if the legislation does not have the desired effect, then there will also be more initiatives to ensure the objectives we have here, so that not just in two years' time we will talk a little about how things have gone, but that we will also be ready to act, that is, if the legislation does not have the desired effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112503-2	The whole idea of making an evaluation is to learn from the experience that is that's the point. And if there are areas where we can do something to promote animal welfare, then I would say that I would be happy to do so. That's why we're working on this. However, I also think that consideration should be taken into account. Sir. Per Larsen from the Conservative People's Party describes, among other things, how the cat is a useful animal in the countryside and that there may be farm owners who have perhaps 20 cats. There you have to look into: Is it necessarily a reasonable burden to give them? We must also take that into account in this discussion. That's why we have to discuss this in depth before we do anything, and that's why I like what's in this bill, which is that we start this way, we evaluate and look at what the experience is, and then we make any changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112557	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112558	Thank you. I think that is a very good approach. I very much agree, and I am glad that it is also very clear that the whole point of the evaluation is that further initiatives will be taken if this bill does not do as requested so thank you for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112612	We agree on this, and I think it is in this spirit that this bill has been tabled, and that is the way I hope that we in the Folketing can work together on better animal welfare in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112623	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112626	It's kind of on the same street. Well, an evaluation is always very good. All I have to say is there's a big difference between these wild cats. They are also called farm cats, but they are actually wild cats, because if a farmer has 20 cats, they are not the socialized cats that are otherwise spoken of in this bill. And it's just to cement it, but in my opinion there's only one thing to do when we evaluate it, and if it turns out, and I can have a lot of scepticism about it not batting enough, and it's a mandatory scheme. I just have to say that during the discussion of this is the way forward and that is what I expect. For that, of course, I will look up in two years' time and say that once again you will have to agree with the Danish People's Party, as the Social Democrats have done in so many other cases. So let's see how it goes. However, as I also said, this is a step on the way, and it is a start, and it is good that we have the debate, also on the international scene in Denmark. So it's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112731	First of all, of course, I am very pleased that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party are experiencing that this proposal is a step in the right direction. I also agree that you could wish for something more, and that is also why we have made this evaluation provision, and we have done so in dialogue with the various committed organisations that have said: can we get an evaluation pass in so that we can reap the experience and then look at whether we need to tighten up? Then I would also like to conclude by giving recognition for the dedicated and targeted work done by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party in relation to putting animal welfare on the agenda. It is something that has been an inspiration for the rest of the Folketing, and it is useful and good, and it is worthy of recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112810	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112811	I did not really intend to make the second comment, but now the Minister himself said that if we then find that more needs to be done. What does the Minister expect it to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112821	Now Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is herself a very experienced and knowledgeable politician and knows that the answer to hypothetical questions must always be kept a little bit longer. But the idea is, as I also said to Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party, that when you make an evaluation, it is with the aim of learning from the experience you gain and if there are ways in which we can promote animal welfare, we will of course look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112847	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112902	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304112928	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. The Innovation Fund is a key player in supporting cooperation between enterprises and knowledge institutions on research, technology development and innovation, as well as in increasing research and innovation efforts in enterprises, including small and medium-sized enterprises, and this must remain the case. At the same time, with the draft law we are discussing today, we want to set a new direction for the work of the Innovation Fund. The new direction aims to create a better framework for the Innovation Fund to help solve major societal challenges we face. This is true, for example. Green switch. The amendments constitute adjustments to the objectives and tasks of the Fund. The bill translates into a political agreement of 23 November 2020, when the government, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, agreed to set a new direction for the Innovation Fund. Specifically, this means that the purpose of the fund will be to provide grants for research, knowledge-based innovation and entrepreneurship that strengthen research areas, technology development and innovative solutions for growth and employment throughout Denmark. At the same time, the fund must support political priority challenges in society. In addition, the Fund shall support coherent research and innovation efforts from basic research to market-oriented development and innovation in the light of policy priorities. And on the political side, we must be able to decide that the fund should be able to provide grants for specific instruments, correspondingly how it is possible today in the Danish Free Research Fund. With the changes mentioned, it makes good sense to adapt the board composition so that the members' background reflects the fund's new purpose, and therefore we suggest that experience with green transition and knowledge-based entrepreneurship should be represented on the fund's board of directors. In addition, we also want rules to be laid down on the prohibition of personal mergers for members of the Fund's Board of Directors and committees under the Fund. In addition, a more systematic knowledge collection is supported in relation to the Fund's activities through a data base, which includes: can be used for analyses and impact measurements across the overall research and innovation system. Finally, a number of administrative changes are proposed, including the establishment of a system of representation designed to support a more appropriate procedure for complaints about the Fund's refusal to grant appropriations and to lay down more detailed rules on the audit of the Fund's accounts. All in all, the bill thus maintains many of the good elements we already know related to the fund's aims today, while at the same time making some adjustments that strengthen the fund's approach to research, technology development and innovation for the benefit of growth and employment across the country, and ensuring that the fund supports more solutions to political priority societal challenges. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill, and I should like to welcome it from Stinus Lindgreen and the Radical Left and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304113221	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304113244	Thank you for giving me the floor, and also thank you to the Minister for the bill, who is, of course, implementing the political agreement on the legal basis of the Innovation Fund, which we jointly concluded back in November last year. The changes in the legal base are an important follow-up to the conclusions of the evaluation of the Innovation Fund, which the current Minister's predecessor, Mr. Tommy Ahlers, initiated. The amendments are also essential in order to achieve the strategic aim of green research, which we also agreed on in the framework of the agreement on the research reserve for 2021. In the Left, we are very pleased that the fund's aim is first and foremost to provide grants for research, knowledge-based innovation and entrepreneurship for growth and employment throughout Denmark. A good example is the green area, which we have given priority to in the research reserve agreements in recent years. If we are to achieve the climate goals and at the same time make it a growth adventure for Denmark, the money we are giving for basic research must, first and foremost, turn into innovation, growth and jobs, in other words, into new green solutions. You might want to refer to former Minister of Science, my former good colleague, Helge Sander's slogan from research to invoice. In other words, strategic exploration research is not a new break. Following on from this, it is also very good that the fund will be given the task of facilitating cooperation across the whole research and innovation effort and that entrepreneurs will be written into the legal framework. It's needed. I think most of us were quite concerned about the report published by the Academy of Technical Sciences in August last year. It shows that we have world-class research environments whose results are very often published in various scientific journals, but it also showed that we lag seriously behind when it comes to patenting. The Minister's predecessor, sir. Tommy Ahlers, had a report drawn up on the Danish innovation system. There is so much room for improvement. The different components do not work well enough; that is, they work well enough in isolation, but they do not play well enough together. In other words, something goes wrong in the food chain when new knowledge is to be transformed into innovation. Although the draft law here is a step towards greater coherence, the Left believes that a genuine innovation strategy is still needed which picks up the general recommendations. In other words, this bill does not solve everything. That is why we look forward to the Minister following up on the overall evaluation of the Danish Innovation Fund and, of course, we are happy to enter into negotiations on a genuine innovation strategy. The VLAK government did so in the context of the business promotion system, and we are quite ready to do something similar in the context of the innovation system. But enough about it for now. There are some things in the draft law that I look forward to discussing a little more in the course of the committee's examination of the draft law. I have noted that several consultation parties are concerned about whether we are creating a clean green fund which, with reference to the legislation we have adopted, is slowly pushing other important areas, such as: Life science out. I don't want it to be like that. It is very important for the Left that we continue to have a strong focus, for example. Life science, but also digitalisation and new technological opportunities, which we know can become new achievements. In other words, it is very important for us that the Innovation Fund does not. We would like to recommend to the Minister that she already gives priority in the early drafting of her proposal for the implementation of the research reserve for 2022. There is also another point that the Left would like to see clarified in the committee procedure itself. The Innovation Fund is closing down the so-called rural growth pilot scheme, although a great many players tell me and probably others that it actually works very well. I would therefore like to hear the reasons why that regulation is being closed down. I think it is obvious to think in different instruments or pools, which can be increased in order to boost growth throughout the country, where we are now channelling so much public money through the Innovation Fund. And then I can see that the President does not allow me to finish it with the final points, but I look forward to the next reading of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304113828	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304113851	Thank you. Back in 2013, we had an exceptionally long process of negotiation in terms of creating the Innovation Fund. It's actually the longest time I've been in here. We had some thirty negotiating meetings and it went up and it went down, but it actually ended up being a really good deal, and it ended up being a really good fund, which was established at the beginning of 2014. Now it has been running for a few years, we have an evaluation, we have some experience that shows what has been good and what has been bad, and therefore it is quite appropriate that we should now make an adjustment to the rules and the framework for the fund and its further work. For example: In connection with the research reserve, we wanted to set aside some funds, and this time specifically for the green area. I would like to say that I fully agree with the previous rapporteur's statement that it is of course important that the fund should not be too narrow. I mean, it is important that we look at the green agenda, but there are also other things that we need to bring with us and that the fund also has to deal with. That is why we must, of course, take advantage of the opportunities that come to give the fund tasks in the future, on the one hand, to ensure that it remains at such an overall level that we do not interfere in the details of how to distribute, and, on the other hand, to bear in mind that there must be a greater breadth in it and that there must be an arm's length. When I say that I have a small concern about the recent history of the distribution of covid money from the fund this spring, where there was some criticism of the way the fund handled it and the way it has been handled. I discussed this with the Minister during Question Time in this Chamber yesterday, and I need us to be sure that we will continue to work on it here in committee and that there will be transparency and openness in the way the Fund is doing it in the future, so that we do not have to face such challenges again. Another important task for the fund, which is highlighted in the new legislation, is to look at strengthening the value chain all the way up. Because it can be said that the Fund has had a great deal to do to strengthen the work of helping companies get research involved, but it must also have a slept, it can be said, down to free research to ensure that there is also coherence in the search for funds, so that the way to apply for funds from the Fund is roughly the same as if we were to seek funds from the UDPs and elsewhere. So there we also look forward as part of the agreement to having an annual report on how the fund has worked on it and how it has progressed. It has been a challenge for all the time that the fund has existed to try to work with it, and that is one of the things that we must certainly continue to do in future work. With this, I am really looking forward to the committee reading, and I would say that we expect to be able to support the draft law in the end; that is part of the agreement we made in the autumn. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304114204	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We move on to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Astrid Carøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304114225	Thank you. The Innovation Fund plays a very important role as an implementing fund for public competitive and strategic research and innovation funds, and it is doing well. But there has been a need for change. The evaluation showed, among other things, that the Fund did not give sufficient priority to strategic basic research and capacity building in the sector of major national importance. That is why we in the SF are very happy with the agreement that has been made, and we naturally support the bill. I am very pleased that we are strengthening the fund's strategic approach to research, technology development and innovation. It must, of course, help to ensure growth and employment, but it must also help to solve social challenges. I understand from several of the consultation parties that they are a little nervous that the aim of solving the social challenges will be subordinate to growth and employment, but the two objectives must be equal, and so are they. Then we will also ensure that the fund supports the entire value chain from basic research to market-oriented development and innovation, and I am very pleased about that, because the whole value chain is crucial for achieving it. In the past, basic research has been under-priority in the fund, and that cannot be done. It is important because if it is not given priority, market developments will be affected later. The Innovation Fund must continue to play a crucial role in solving the major challenges facing society, and we are now giving it a better chance of doing so. And then we give the fund a clear green focus, and I'm very proud of that. With over 1 billion. kr. for green research and development in 2021, which is more than 50%. In the case of the Fund, we guarantee, among other things, that it will be financed by the Fund. a strong strategic focus on the green transition. And of course the fund must also be able to do other things, but it can also do so in this new agreement, I would like to stress that, but at the same time also be very proud that we dare to set this green direction for the fund. So all in all, we support this and look forward to this change in the Innovation Fund getting under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304114444	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr Gundelach's report. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304114505	Thank you. We are also included in the agreement that was made back in November, and this is, after all, like an expiry of it, and we support the bill, I can say. It is true that the Danish Innovation Foundation has had quite a lot of importance, and now a little change is being made in the way it should work. We think it is very positive that it is, as it were, focused on the fact that it should also have a role to play in relation to green conversion, and that in our discussion about achieving our 70-percent climate objective there is an underlying direction on the issue, so that we also use this fund to achieve those objectives as well as those objectives there. So, overall, we are very pleased with the proposal. However, I have just a few questions to say, and that is about the way we use our research and how it develops. It has also been mentioned by others that when it comes to developing basic research and getting research going at all, there is some bias in relation to universities and the money they have in their own treasury when they get some fund-based funds. What are the cash flows there, and how does this affect the areas of research that you work with? A year ago a Forum on Research Finance was set up under the auspices of the Minister, and that is what I would like to ask myself, because what are they doing? As far as I am aware, that forum has not wrestled with anything in a year, and it might be very good to hear whether there is any life in that small forum at all. Because it's really a pretty big problem. It may well be that the reason why nothing has yet come from that forum is that the task is difficult and that you cannot find out how to organise the cash flows, you can say, so that it does not harm research. That is certainly a question. Then I have another question which I would also like to clarify. It is because of a specific request that I have received, and I also believe that you others have received it, but where it is the case that a group of organisations, the Technology Council, Gate 21, CONCITO and the Green Conversion Council have at least contacted me and others and where they indicate that the Innovation Fund does not support research or projects linked to civil society organisations; that it is too strongly linked to university-like institutions. I do not know exactly whether it is true that it is, but it is certainly a question that I would like to hear a little more about. To what extent is this true and, if it is true, why is it that one cannot also support civil society organisations from the Danish Innovation Fund? With these words, I would just like to say that we support the draft law before us and look forward to having it dealt with in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304114914	There are no brief comments to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, so thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304114935	Now we are here with a new bill on e.g. adjusting the Innovation Fund, and this was a little surprising, I think, for several of the rapporteurs, that when we were in the negotiations on the research reserve, we were also suddenly about to look at a change in the legal basis of the Innovation Fund. How was that all along? We had it slowed down a little because we think it would actually be a bigger thing when we look at an Innovation Fund. I guess it's about smoked. 10 billion kr. through this fund lately, and that's a lot of money. We would also like to use them strategically important. It is a fund with a great responsibility for our social development, it must create innovation and it must ensure the link between research and business and the public sector in order to create more and better effective welfare solutions and more green transition. So we asked: why change it here and now? We did not get the clear answer, I think. Of course, we recognise the importance of the green transition and climate change measures, which we fully support, and we do so across the Danish Parliament. It's strong. However, we were worried about whether there was a greater political focus on the green, and we fought in the debates that were in the autumn for it to be spread out more widely, and fortunately we have also been given our impressions when it comes to looking at it a little wider, both in terms of business and in relation to other areas such as agriculture. health, so we simply did not write life science completely out of the ground. What is our great concern is that there is a danger that politically-elected issues and earmarked items will be changed all too frequently, both at work on resources and at waste of large resources. Right now we can ask: What is green? I would say that the digital solutions are certainly also green, there are many things that are green. Green is something that must also be crossed. We must also make our health sector, you might say, more green, so that is why we also need to do research in the health sector. So it is of course important that we have a good understanding of what is a priority. Another thing I am aware of is that it says that basic strategic research must be carried out. That sounds a little bit counter-productive. After all, the basis is fairly broad, and the whole area of research and technology must also be built up in areas of great national importance. After all, it is early research and capacity building and not projects with a measurable output that is in focus here. So semantic there is something a little strange in a basic strategic research. It is strategic, it is politically elected. But basically, it is not the real thing. That's what you're doing. That is the basis, and I guess that is what is called early research. So I would like to ask the Minister how much of the fund is to be spent on capacity building and talent development, because that is not very clear. Section 3 and Section 4 of the draft law provides for the Fund to provide funds for specific activities in the field of policy instruments, when a special appropriation is provided for this in the annual budget laws, and the Minister stressed to us during the discussions that the instruments are entirely new, but in some way this is a central tightening-up. New topics and proposals for projects, concrete means, can be added on an ongoing basis, but it can also become a larger goat market with many different instruments which do not create uniform listings and assessment criteria. And something that is of course important and that we have seen as a challenge for the Innovation Fund in the way it has been managed is of course uniformity and transparency. This is incredibly important for not wasting the applicant's time either. So I would also like to ask the Minister whether she is aware that with this bill the board will have a greater role to play in deciding on themes, rules and programmes and how to construct them. We are concerned, I would say, in the Conservative People's Party that there will be too much direct management of research and innovation. Changing topics and policy priorities lead to significantly less competition and less efficient projects. Although we may think that we elected representatives in here are wise, it is now out in research, in business and in the public sector that they know what is running it and what is needed. So it is in competition, the good ideas arise and people struggle to implement projects. Competition or competition can give value. It can also remove some of the incentive for industry to participate, because research-intensive companies have much more long-term research and development strategies, and it takes time and it is expensive. So we are concerned that you can spend a lot of money wisely on projects with many stakeholders too, especially if we are going to change topics too frequently. So we think that there are a number of challenges to this bill, and I hope that the Minister will answer my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115436	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115437	Thank you. I was just so surprised when the rapporteur said that the rapporteur is concerned about the great focus on the green. Because that is what I think the rapporteur and many of us have been helping to secure in the research reserve over the last few years, in other words, that there is a greater focus on the green. And in SF we are extremely proud that we are actually now strategically going in and saying that, of course, there must also be a focus on the green in the Innovation Fund. Then perhaps the rapporteur could put a little more words on the concerns about the green? Is it because it is becoming too concrete now and that it is now at the expense of something else, or what is it that makes it a concern? Because from this side, we're really proud of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115522-2	As I said, we are in favour of this, and the green transition is one of our biggest challenges. That's what we're gonna do together. What may be a challenge in the way it stands here, which I think is unclear, is the way it is defined, or I would rather say the lack of it. It may overshadow the fact that we are not thinking, for example. The digital in. Digital solutions are incredibly important for example. In other words, if it is left out, there will be sectoral coupling and energy efficiency. We also had a challenge to get the digital into, for example. the research reserve. We need to clarify how wide we think green. In any case, we want it to be very broad when you think about green here, because it has to go across a great many areas. For example: food safety and more sustainable food production. It is also procurement, how do we help the State and the Municipality's Purchasing Service? Maybe it could be something else. It is just to say that it has to be very broad, and we may risk it being interpreted too narrowly. That is our concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115623	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115624	Of course it has to be wide. This is also one of the things we often talk about in the context of research, namely that the green transition is also about research carried out in the humanities and that it is digitalisation, as the rapporteur says. However, a direct concern that there is too much focus on the green, I think at least is a pity. Because that's what we're really happy about in the SF. But good, if it isn't so in Conservatives anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115644-2	The first thing I mentioned before is that, for example, there is a need for the European Parliament to have a say in this matter. Our health research may really be downgraded, and this is something we live on very much, because it brings export earnings to Denmark, but we must also say now with a global pandemic, how important health is and how good it is that some people have studied and researched in vaccines and immunology 10-20 years ago, where it was not very smart or sexy. We can really benefit from that now, and that is what is also important, namely that we think that there are also major health and welfare tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115723	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115724	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is important for research to be carried out to ensure that we have as many vaccines as possible. I do not think anyone in this Chamber disagrees with that. I just have to follow up on what was asked of Mrs Carøe, because I am not quite sure whether I should interpret the last answer as saying that Conservatives believe that there is too much focus on the green in the agreement. Now it is said that there should have been a focus on something else and on something else, but does this mean that the Conservative People's Party and the rapporteur believe that there is too much focus on the green in our agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115759	What is the problem with the agreement is that it does not say exactly how much it really is. It's green, but it doesn't really say how much compared to the other areas. It will be very difficult to get one, what should we say, clear assessment of how it will be weighted. There is great discretion in relation to the trade committees. That's what we've seen. That is also something I have challenged before in relation to the Rules of Procedure. If it has great political control, then you can go in now and say that it will be 90%. on the green, or what do I know? We don't know that. And if one day there is a new priority, then it can change again. And research is per. nature something that takes some time. There's no quick fix. Therefore, it is worrying that it is not clearly defined how much green compared to this. And the second is, what do we do? How do we ensure that there are no changing political priorities and that this becomes something else? Now we have a covid-19, then we change direction, and then it becomes health, and then it becomes 10%. green. So these are the two things, i.e. the lack of a clear definition and also what we are doing, so that it is not just a victim of changing political priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115907	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115908	Excuse me, but the rapporteur is not answering my question. I do not think anyone disagrees with the need to have a broad focus on the green. After all, most of us in here have also been involved in the negotiations that were going on, and it was precisely a question of ensuring that there was a framework so that both the start-up phase and the long-term priority could be given to investments in the green. But I would like the rapporteur to try to answer that. After all, nobody disagrees with or doubts that if we are to achieve this with our ambitious 70-percent reduction target, it will require large investments. That is why we too have the political and strategic courage to target research. Then the rapporteur could not just reply to whether the rapporteur and the Conservative People's Party think that there is too much focus on the green in our agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304115956	In any case, we must be careful not to forget the other. That is also stated in the hearings. After all, there is a concern around us that we are not getting health with us. That's what's important. I am also listening to what is going on in consultation, and there is therefore a concern that I think we should address. After all, the entire research reserve has also turned green. There we have four green missions. So it's green, green, green. This is extremely important, but it is also important how we think about health. That is also very, very important. So it must not be at the expense of very strategically important areas as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120027	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Now I cannot see any more rapporteurs present in the Chamber asking for the floor. So the next person to speak is the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120051	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate so far. I think it has been a good course that led to the agreement to change the legal basis of the Innovation Fund. After all, we have a good tradition of broad agreements in this area, and I am also very pleased that there still appears to be broad support for this bill, which was part of our autumn agreement. The rapporteur of the Left has already pointed out where we have been continuously mapped out what the forces are at the Innovation Fund and what we can do even better. This is, of course, one of the things we are trying together to strengthen our grip on, precisely on the things that can be done even better. Overall, the aim of the proposal is to strengthen the framework for the Innovation Fund and their ability to play a crucial role in solving the major challenges facing society, among others. in relation to the green transition, which has also been discussed during the debate. The draft law makes it a clear part of the fund's legal basis that the fund must support the entire value chain from basic research to market-oriented development and innovation. It was a key point when the fund was evaluated that they have not given sufficient priority to the strategic foundations of research and capacity building in sectors of major national importance. An important purpose of the bill is therefore to strengthen the fund's strategic approach to research, technology development and innovation, which can help create growth and employment across the country, both in the short and in the long term. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that, as in the past, the fund must work to increase research and innovation efforts in our businesses, both small and medium-sized and very large. The core of the activities of the Innovation Fund must continue to support cooperation between companies and knowledge institutions on research, technology development and innovation. The bill also contains a number of good elements. This applies, among other things, to: to have an increased focus on the coherence of the entire research landscape, where the fund is explicitly asked to coordinate its action with the other actors, both in the research, innovation and business promotion system. This applies to the possibility that we can decide on the political side that the fund should provide funding for specific instruments, in the same way as is possible today with the Danish Free Research Fund. Overall, the draft law contains a number of good and important initiatives, which I am sure will strengthen the role of the Innovation Fund as the key player in implementing the competitive research and innovation funds, and I look forward to the further examination of the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120356	Thank you, Minister. There is just one brief comment. Mrs Karina, no, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120405	It's okay. I'm often called Karina and other things I don't want to go into here. Thank you, Minister. I asked before whether the Minister could respond, as it were, to what would be the focus in terms of capacity building. It's not very clear. Could the Minister explain a little more about what the expectation is for capacity building, including in relation to our young researchers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120432	It is a key element that we focus on capacity building, and that is also one of the things the evaluation shows: the Innovation Fund has been very good at the individual projects, but has not been so good at the big context. It is only important, as the rapporteur rightly says in his speech, to know that research takes time to build up. That is why it is also something that the Innovation Fund must contribute to. So, in relation to what the rapporteur also asked about the priorities between the various fields: I am proud that we are taking a very important step here in relation to the green transition. We are discussing at other tables how important it is for us as elected representatives of this time and how important a role research plays. That is why, of course, it must also be central here. But the law does not say how much is to be spent on research every year or what political priorities we have to choose in the field of research. After all, this is something on which the rapporteurs have been invited every year to debate in the context of the Finance Act. It is, of course, politically determined, and I want it to continue to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120535	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120538	Thank you. In my speech, I also asked the Minister whether the Minister thinks that with this bill the Minister gives more powers to the Board or less powers to the Board in deciding priorities, that is, what that is to be researched and prioritised.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120559	In this regard, it should be noted that the contested tax rulings do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, since they do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) This is something the foundation and the independent people of the foundation are deciding. But with the bill here, there will be greater political opportunity to set a direction, but also to go in and determine means, such as we. in writing. - (DE) With the agreement in the autumn on the green missions, which is one of the elements in which we can see that the task is so great that it cannot be solved with individual projects. That is why we sometimes need a large scale.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120637	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120639	I also asked a question, and the Minister may not be able to answer it, and I am in agreement with it if the Minister says passport, but I would like to mention it again. Where is the Research Finance Forum? Of course, it's not exactly in this bill, but it's part of the whole understanding of how we channel money into research, that is, what methods we use for it. That is why I asked a question about the Research Finance Forum that was set up a year ago, that is, where they are in this and whether they have something on their way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120720	We are so privileged in our country that we have a great many private actors who want to contribute to research. That's good, and that's one of them. Some of the things that make us achieve the Barcelona objective of 3%. But it may also sometimes feel as if private money is forgetting the public sector in the individual research environments, and that is why the Research Finance Forum is really relevant, because it is something that is being discussed, namely how we find the balance where it becomes a positive contribution to society, and do not forget that there must also be room for research into things that are not necessarily economic interests in here and now or elsewhere. I think the rapporteur was asked whether there is any life in the Research Finance Forum, and the short answer is: yes, there is life, no conclusions, but life. I would say that I hope there is even more life when corona allows us to physically meet again too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120819	Sir. Bruno Jerup? No. There are no further brief comments, and we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120837	The debate is open. And the first to speak is in fact the Minister for Education and Research, who has otherwise just cleaned the platform. Since it is a motion for a resolution, it is the Minister first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304120911	I'll just do it twice. Thank you for the floor. Just over a year ago, on 20 January 2020, we decided here in Parliament to lift the training ceiling. It was a really good day. In fact, it was my very first legislative proposal ever adopted under the auspices of the Minister of Education and Research and what a debut! This is something that has filled a lot for students across the country. Many took it down as an indication that one should not choose wrong, so go in the wrong door and then become wiser. Many took it down in a way that caused unnecessary pressure. When we abolished the training ceiling again, the bill agreed to restore the legal status that existed before the training ceiling. A key element in this is the candidate rule, which we have had for almost 30 years, except for the three years of parentheses with the education ceiling. The Master's Rule means that persons who have already completed one Master's degree programme can, as a rule, only be eligible for admission to a new higher education programme if there are available places. The proposers want us to abolish the rule again. This means that people who have already received one Master's degree will have the opportunity to take the place of admission-limited courses from people who do not yet have an education. I think that, and the government doesn't think that's fair. The Government cannot therefore agree to the proposal. We believe that the candidate rule is important because it helps us to ensure that we distribute the places in higher education in the most fair way. In fact, in some courses there are far, far more applicants than there are seats available, and when that is the case, it is not fair that a person who already has a Master's degree should be able to take the place of others who do not yet have a Master's degree. So it is not just a question of giving people with a Master's degree an extra right, because if we give them that right, they will get it at the expense of young people who have not yet had the same opportunities as them. At the same time, I would like to stress that the candidate rule does not mean that people who already have a Master's degree will not be able to take a new higher education course; on the contrary, that is what is the whole essence of the education ceiling, but they must choose an education where there are vacant places. For admissions through the Coordinated Registration last summer, in 2020, almost half of the courses that applicants could apply for on half of our degree programmes out there, several hundred open doors where there are available seats and where you don't need to get ahead in line with one Master's degree programme already in your luggage, in front of some others who haven't been there yet. So there are plenty of opportunities to take another education if you have come into a dead end or need to change track. In addition, if you already have a Master's degree, you can also apply for a derogation from the candidate's rule if there are special circumstances. It is the higher education institutions that can grant it a derogation. It can, for example, be done. be if there are health conditions that prevent you from using the Master's degree programme you already have. At the same time, people who have a Master's degree also have good opportunities to retrain within the rules in force. In short, the government cannot agree to the proposal to permanently abolish the candidate rule. On the contrary, the government believes that the candidate rule is both fair and necessary. It is simply about what is reasonable and sensible in terms of how we best distribute the places in our higher education. I am also fully aware that there are forces which at the same time think that some have got stuck in this. We are discussing this with the parties of the Folketing at the moment, in other words in relation to this matter. However, the complete abolition of the candidate rule will not be fair, and the government cannot support that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121353	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121356	Thank you. When the Minister began his reply, I was immediately pleased. It sounded a bit like the speech made by the Minister just over a year ago when we abolished the dual training rule, but then the Minister turned to a lot of arguments which are actually the same as those used to defend the dual education rule. The Minister said a year ago that it was possible to discuss this here as the narrow part it is and which, in the broad picture, is going to hit a limited number of young people. You can also take a step back and say that it potentially affects the 90,000 young people who have to choose their education this summer. I think it's the last thing at stake. This limitation is now actually becoming tighter than it was when we had the double training rule, because at that time this group could actually take a new education after six years. So the framework that exists today for students is actually tighter than what I heard the Minister speak to abolish a year ago. Why is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121458	But now I think that the rapporteur should be fair and not talk about it here, as if it is the case that if you already have a Master's degree, the doors are closed because they are not. There are hundreds of open doors where you can go in and take a new long higher education without problems, but at the same time without taking the seat of someone else who does not yet have an education, and I think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121521	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121523	It was precisely the same thing that was said in defence of a reduction in dual education, namely that there were plenty of opportunities. There were plenty of roads. Few people got hit. But there I think we all saw in here that the signal it sent about having this limitation made a lot of people experience that the door was closed. So that's actually more what I'm talking about. Where has the wisdom that I experienced together a year ago gone? Has the Minister become less clever since last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121552	I am still very proud of that agreement and of the fact that we managed to get that ceiling out of the way, because it is very clear that it has been taken down in a way that it created unnecessary pressure, and at a time when it really is not needed, it sent a signal to our young people that they should not make mistakes and choose wrong. Nothing could be further from how I feel and how I feel about how a youth life should be lived. But a rule we have had for 30 years that if you have one long higher education and want a new one, choose one of the hundreds of doors where there is no queue to enter, I think is only right and fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121631	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Minister, so we are now starting with the rapporteur's series. And then the first rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party has been prepared, and that is Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121655	Thank you. With the resolution we are now considering, the proposers propose to abolish the candidate rule. This will mean that people who already have a Master's degree will have the opportunity to take an educational place from young people who do not yet have a higher education. We cannot back that up. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that there must be a right to lifelong education and we must also have the opportunity to change our mind in the educational system. That is why we abolished the educational ceiling, which created an inappropriate fear for students to choose incorrectly. We have a limited number of study places in our higher education every year, which is why, unfortunately, we cannot always offer a place to all interested people. In these cases, we need to give priority to who should be allowed to be at the front of the queue, and there we think it is right that students who do not yet have higher education should be put in line before those who have already completed a Master's degree programme. That is why we reinstated the candidate rule with its entry into force from March last year. The Master's Rule means that persons who have already completed a Master's degree programme can, as a rule, only be eligible for admission to a new higher education programme if there are available places. Last summer, about half of our educations had vacant places, and therefore there are still good opportunities to be admitted to a new education, even though a Master's degree programme has been completed. We therefore believe that the candidate rule ensures a fair distribution of study places in our higher education, and we believe that there are still good opportunities to take a new education, even if you have a Master's degree programme. However, we do not believe that it is fair for them to be able to take study places from young people who do not yet have higher education. The Social Democrats do not therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121840	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121844	Thank you. When we stood here a year ago, the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær: It is about the young people who find it difficult to find a job with the training they have completed. It is about young people who see exciting opportunities in combining the education they have already taken with another and perhaps new education. It is about all the young people who simply chose wrong in the first place. The stories have been many. The educational ceiling has proved to be a leg buckle and a source of frustration. Today we say very clearly to all the young people that it's okay to choose wrong, it's okay to choose if it's okay to get smarter. Are we not saying that anymore?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304121923	I am glad to hear that the Danish People's Party thought that the educational ceiling was a terribly bad idea. It's always okay that you can get smarter on that account too. Well, we're just giving you the opportunity to get smarter if you want to. Today, more than half of our Master's degree programmes are available. This means that if you have taken an education, there is also the possibility that you can go in and get another education. That was not an option when we had the ceiling on education. There it was said to young people that if you had chosen incorrectly, or if you were in doubt, you would have to work 6 years before you had the opportunity to take a new education. We're gonna change that now. Now there is the possibility that you can take another Master's degree if there is room. But what we are saying is that if you already have an education, if you have already gone 5-6 years on an education, then you should not take the place of someone who has not yet received an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122008	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122009	I can hear that being said. Does that mean we're gonna have a bachelor's ceiling? For the rapporteur actually says that if you have an education in advance, you should not be able to go in and take a new one and take the place of some others. As it is today, a bachelor can apply to another bachelor's degree programme, so should we also have a bachelor's ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122030	No, we're not. And what we are discussing now is, of course, whether to abolish the candidate rule, what the questioner is proposing and which will allow many who already have an education to take the place of some new students who do not have an education. And we think that would be unfair. As the rules are today, there is a good chance that if you have taken a Master's degree, you can do something else, you can change paths. There are insanely many courses in Denmark that you can choose. There is ample opportunity to change tracks. You can also get some upskilling, what the Minister has said, so there are plenty of opportunities for you to choose some other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122105	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122107	I just wanted to ask a question, because the rapporteur said that the Danish People's Party had become wiser. And then I would just like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to say for himself that we have become wiser, since it was also the Social Democrats who took part in the idea of introducing the education ceiling at the time. We're from the SF really glad you've gotten smarter. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122129	After all, the education ceiling was also part of a major political agreement last time. However, we are really, really proud to be part of a political majority which puts education first and which has not only abolished the education ceiling, but also prioritises the need for more money for our education system. So we are very, very proud of that, and we acknowledge many times for the good cooperation that we have with, among other things. SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122148	Thank you. And there are no more brief comments to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And we're gonna have to get the liquor off again. The next rapporteur is from the Left, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122216	Thank you. In the Left, we fully agree with the authors of the motion that it was in every way inappropriate and in itself wrong for the present government to change the rules from one day to the next, with the result that a group of citizens were caught up, namely the group of citizens who had the prospect of completing dream education, despite the fact that they already had a master's degree. It changed overnight. We drew attention to this in the context of the examination of the legislative proposal which removed the restriction on dual education. We wrote it into the report at the time, and I have been following it since then through questions to the Minister. The answers have testified to the fact that there was no great interest in helping this group, which had been completely unwittingly squeezed. I have gone so far as to have helped to get a majority out of the government in order to find a solution for this small group of citizens. Unfortunately, it happened that the SF, which was part of the majority outside the government, jumped into the goal, with the result that unfortunately we did not reach a solution for this small group of citizens before the deadline for quota 2 applications expired. I think this is really, really a pity, and I think it is also reasonable, what can be said, rude to this small group of citizens. But all that said, I do not believe that the solution to the situation in which this group of citizens has inadvertently ended up is to remove the candidate rule. I agree with the Minister and also the Socialist rapporteur that it is inappropriate that, if you have a Master's degree, which you have been allowed to take free of charge, we have our education system in Denmark, and free of charge means that you can take up the place or take the place of someone who does not have a Master's degree. I don't think that's fair. That is why we want to maintain the candidate rule. But it is really, really important for us that a solution should be found for the small group of citizens who, as I said, have been caught up because, from one day to the next, the government changed the rules, rules to which we, incidentally, voted yellow for the same reason. And, as I mentioned, we also described it in the report that was made in connection with the legislative process back in autumn 2019. On the other hand, I am very pleased that the fact that a majority was gathered outside the government has paved the way for the Minister to invite discussions to find a solution to the situation of this group. However, I would have liked to see more speed in the discussions so that, as I said, a solution could have been found before the deadline for the submission of a quota 2 application this year. Unfortunately, there is no prospect of that. It is not because we have not put pressure on, but rather a lack of understanding, a lack of desire, to find a solution for this group of citizens. With these comments, I must stress that the Left cannot support the general removal of the candidate rule, which is proposed in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122615	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122619	Thank you. The rapporteur says that yellow was voted to remove the education ceiling because it went too fast in relation to the candidate rule. That is not what I understood from the rapporteur who dealt with the bill a year ago. In fact, it was extremely difficult to find out from the rapporteur from the Left whether the Left intends to reinstate the education ceiling if the government regains power. That is why I would like to ask once again: do we risk the Left thinking of reintroducing the education ceiling when the Left might come back to power again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122657	I think that Mrs Astrid Carøe should read the report, which was drawn up in connection with the legislative process at the time when the government, with a broad majority in the Folketing, chose to abolish the law on the limitation of dual education. This was something we agreed on, we had been there in the election campaign in June 2019, so that was not why we voted yellow. We voted yellow on the basis of this group of citizens who were caught and who have been caught, and we simply do not think that that is right. Then Astrid Carøe asks whether the Left intends to reinstate the education ceiling. As I said, we were quite clear in the election campaign that if we had continued with the government, we would have changed the legislation in this area. But I'm 100%. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). That is what happened to the legislation that was adopted here in autumn 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122808	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122809	I'm so glad to hear that you would have backed up. I would also like us to have found a system, and that is what we are doing now, fortunately, because we found a majority on it together. But I have been worried because one would not reply to it a year ago, i.e. whether one would want to reinstate it. And, of course, it was the Left's idea when they had the power of government. So I would like to sign that you are now finally saying that you could of course not do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122838	I have to say that it is with some delay that Mrs Astrid Carøe is interested in finding a solution for this small group of citizens. We raised it in connection with the examination of the bill in its time, back in autumn 2019, wrote it into the report, I have asked the Minister several questions about it along the way, tried to raise political debate on it and actually managed to convince the SF that there is an unfairness here. But the SF is jumping into the goal so that you cannot implement rules that allow people to send a quota 2 application this year. I simply do not think that is fair. In any case, the SF should not blame the Left for anything in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122921	Then it's mr. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122923	Thank you. I would like to sign the rapporteur's speech. One thing is what you say, but another thing is what you do. Now the rapporteur says on the platform that this is something that the government and the Social Democratic Party proposed overnight, but that is not true. This was something that the Social Democratic Party chose to change, and we said to the electorate that if we got the government, we would change it. We already have. However, I would very much like to acknowledge to the rapporteur that she has also confirmed today that the Left did not vote in favour of abolishing the education ceiling, which has enabled us to change and change our educational path. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304122959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123000	It is new to me that the Social Democrats went to elections specifically to bother a small group of citizens. I just wasn't aware of that. But thank you for your confession here in Parliament. I just didn't know. In other words, a group of citizens who, with the introduction of the restriction of dual education, had the possibility of taking two Master's degree programmes, had been specifically harassed by elections. It is simply new to me that the Social Democrats went to the polls to really bother this small group of citizens who have got into a mess. I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123041	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123041-2	Then I think that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs has misread the many e-mails that I think we have all received from the citizens who have been caught. For what is true with the citizens is that a great many of them have got into a mess because Mrs Ulla Tørnæs's government introduced an educational ceiling which made them feel compelled to complete a Master's degree programme with which they had to go out on the labour market and spend six years in order to do something else. What we are doing now is saying to the people who have taken a Master's degree that they will have the opportunity to choose another Master's degree. The small group of people who have come into contact because they thought they were going to live under the educational ceiling proposed by Ulla Tørnæs, we have put ourselves together across the parties now to see if we can find a solution for that group of people. That is what we are doing now, and I would just like to sign off on the fact that the rapporteur has become wiser in this respect and would like to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123129	Well, it's strange that Mr. Simpson... Bjørn Brandenborg has to stand here and say I'm the one who's gotten smarter. In fact, I wrote it into the report when Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg helped to adopt the bill to remove the restriction of dual education. It's kind of the reverse world, I'll admit. But just for the record, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg's party agreed with the original introduction of the limitation of dual education. It was an agreement made by the Social Democratic Party with the previous government, and it was, of course, about providing funding for a boost in the daily allowance system, as Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg's party nodded.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123212	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. While we are just getting ready here, I can say that the next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123241	Thank you. For SF it was a very good day when we had the education ceiling abolished, which the previous government introduced together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. We never thought it was a good idea to limit education. We saw how the ceiling on education pushed too many students, and it required a culture where there was no room for error, for reflection, for stumbling and for choosing to change. The abolition of the education ceiling was a really important victory for us in the SF. With the abolition of the training ceiling, we reinstated the candidate rule, which therefore also existed before the educational ceiling was introduced, as the Minister has already pointed out. Unfortunately, when the educational ceiling was abolished, some students fell between two chairs. They had first been told before the education ceiling that they could take a bachelor and qualify, and then they could come in and read their dream bachelor afterwards. Then it was not possible with the training ceiling. On the other hand, it was possible to take another candidate and then wait 6 years and then apply to the dream candidate. They have followed all the advice and guidance they have received, and of course we must take care of these students. That's why SF also wants a transitional arrangement so that we find a solution for those who have been caught in these changing rules. However, the Danish People's Party proposes to abolish the candidate rule completely on the grounds that people with a Master's degree today cannot be admitted to a new education. But it's wrong. They can be admitted to a new Master's degree or any other education if there is room for them. Last summer there was room for almost half of the available Master's degree programmes. And that's what's the big difference here. The educational ceiling closed all doors; at first it was all doors, and after constant pressure from the student movement and from among others. SF was introduced that small hole where you could be admitted after 6 years. So all the doors were closed if you had a higher education. If you were political science and thought you wanted to be a educator, you couldn't be allowed to do it, and you might still be able to do it, but only after six years. You can now. If you have a candidate in political science, you can study as a teacher. DF writes that the abolition of the Master's Rule will give students equal opportunities. But I do not really understand that, because abolishing the candidate rule will mean that some others will not be admitted, some of them who do not already have a candidate. Because the candidate rule ensures that those without a candidate already get in line first. And if the candidate rule is abolished, it does not create any new training places. It's just that the seats are distributed to somebody else. And when there are no unlimited seats, I actually think it is fair enough that those without a master's degree come first. In addition, it is possible for some of those who already have a Master's degree to apply for exemption from the Master's Rule. It is our educational institutions that must assess those situations, and I think that makes very good sense. Our degree programmes have a connection with the studies and students, and of course they must be participants in decisions on exemption from the master's rule, just as they are in other contexts where the student can apply for exemption. Finally, I am really surprised that DF will finance the proposal's undoubtedly quite high cost of getting foreigners to self-finance their education. Exchange opportunities and knowledge sharing are crucial for our EU cooperation, and I therefore do not see it as a realistic financing option. So with all this the SF cannot support the proposal, but we look forward to further work for a transitional period for students who have been lost between two chairs, first by establishing the education ceiling and then abolishing it. We need to find a solution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123655	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123659	Thank you. I would like to give a commitment that we must, of course, find a solution in relation to those who are in trouble. That's what we've said before, and that's a component of this. But now I remember what Mr. Jacob Mark said in this Chamber about a year ago that politicians must create opportunities for people and not take opportunities away from them; politicians must give people freedom and not restrict it or make them afraid to fail; and the educational ceiling is an example of a law that made tomorrow worse than today; and today we are going back and giving more young people opportunities. So here are some that we actually take options from. This group has, in fact, been given poorer opportunities since the agreement on dual education was abolished, because at that time they had an opportunity after six years. So I would really like to know whether SF will help to adjust the rule of candidate, so that you actually get the option after 6 years, just as you had under the double-education rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123755	I think it makes very good sense for those who do not have a Master's degree to come first, but that does not mean that we have closed doors. This means that you can choose an education where there are free places. And I just want to say in relation to this that you could get in after six years, that it wasn't in the education ceiling from the start. It was something that was fought through by going to demonstrations on the streets and alleys, and where the student and student movement really shouted about this. Then you made that little loophole about it after 6 years, but it wasn't a part of it at first. However, I think that we should discuss it further, in other words how we can ensure that more people can get an education. I just don't want us to do this at the expense of those who don't have a master's degree today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123836	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123838	Well, I think we can keep talking. I'm thinking, why make this limitation for that exact group? And how come it's all right for SF if it's about someone taking more than a bachelor? If you take a bachelor's degree and take another bachelor's degree and take another bachelor's degree, you get in at the expense of some if you choose an education where there is limitation. Then why is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123859	The rapporteur talks a great deal about opportunities, and I think that if there is a candidate rule and you get in line first, you can take some options from some people instead of coming in line at the end. I think that should also be considered when proposing this, because as long as we do not have a free admission to education, which I do not think we should have either, it has as a consequence that some will probably not be admitted. In fact, I think it is quite good that we are saying that we are getting quite a long way in our education before we can choose an education where there are no free places. Yes, now there's no more time, and I think it might have made sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123933	Thank you very much to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And while we are just getting a little spit off, I would ask the rapporteur on the Radical Left to stay clear. Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304123957	Thank you. I am filling in today for our second rapporteur, also called Katrine, and then we thought that it would be easier just to let me stand. And I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that, of course, we are also voting against this proposal. It is a strange proposal from the Danish People's Party, because the Danish People's Party was just involved in implementing and was one of the advocates of the education ceiling, so to ensure that students' access to education or to make mistakes, make a mistake and then in fact try again. So we are incredibly surprised at what the Danish People's Party really wants with this proposal. I understand from the debate here that it is a great deal to ensure that a perhaps very small group of students who have a master's degree can also take an additional master's degree. And that is exactly what they can do if they are aiming for some of the vacant places, half of which are on Master's degree programmes in Denmark. It may well be that it is the Master's degree programmes that are offered in several different places in Denmark that you can see if you look in a catalogue. So maybe this could also help spread it geographically a little bit; everyone doesn't necessarily have to read in Copenhagen just because the coolest cafés are here. So in the Radical Left, we would also like to have the students spread out in the country, so that we have a wider geographical spread of competences. That is also one of our objectives. We have fought for the abolition of the education ceiling in line with the SF and side by side with the student movement, so it was a huge victory for us to get rid of it. The fact that we then have to abolish the candidate rule, which we implemented in this context, seems completely unnecessary because the candidate rule has precisely the mechanism in it that it helps to bring about greater equality in the education system. That is why we are opposed to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304124158	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304124201	Thank you. Yes, I would like to confirm that we were involved in this and, in this way, supported the education ceiling. But I also had to stand here a year ago and say that I had actually become much smarter. For what occurred to me was that the rule that basically hit relatively few was experienced by really, very many as a door that was closed. And that's exactly the same thing. That's why we bring this out. It is a door that is closed to quite a few people in fact, but something that can affect a lot of people. Because if you're almost done taking your candidate and then considering that you really want to take someone else, this means that you really shouldn't finish it, because then you can have the opportunity to take the other one. After all, this is exactly the same discussion we had in relation to the rules on dual education. So I wonder why there is no support for this, because I believe that the problems here are exactly the same. Why is it that the Radical Left cannot support us abolishing this rule and opening this door?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304124300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304124302	After all, the proposal of the proposers is that it is candidates who have completed the training which should be able to take an additional Master's degree. So exactly those who stop and do not complete their Master's degree because they realize just before closing time that they have made a mistake have the opportunity to change track. In addition, the rapporteurs and the Minister are in the process of agreeing or at least having discussions on a transitional arrangement, of which I am by no means familiar, so I cannot enter into that debate, but I am fully confident that both our rapporteur and the Minister are in a position to find a reasonable transitional arrangement for the very small group. But so, those who already have a Master's degree have the opportunity to choose between a sea of vacant places that exist across the country. So there are no doors that are closed to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304124350	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304124352	No, and now I am not asking the rapporteur today to have the full knowledge of this area. It is quite fair not to have it, and that is not what I am looking for at all. But the rapporteur now says that if you do not complete your candidate, you have the opportunity to change, but that is not what we should be calling for. We would like to see the candidate almost finished. And, following on from that, I would really like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Radical Left would also think it would be reasonable to make a bachelor's rule, then, when one has taken one bachelor's degree, why would one then be able to take another and take ahead of others there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304124422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304124423	A bachelor rule is not what I have come up here to talk about today, so I will simply leave it to another rapporteur. As far as we are concerned, this is today about discussing the candidate rule, so that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304124438	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur, and can we also get the radical rapporteur just to prepare for the Enhedslisten's rapporteur? Very good! Then we have the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304124507	Thank you. I can start by saying that the Enhedslisten is in principle in favour of abolishing the candidate rule. It may have been here for 30 years, but we are in principle in favour of abolishing the candidate rule. However, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal before us, and the most important thing for us in this context, and this is the argument that has also been made by a number of other rapporteurs, is that it is not justifiable to simply abolish the rule without looking at what our admission system and our dimensioning, the restriction of access are like. At the same time, we must ensure that sufficient resources and resources are made available to actually do so without leading to any young people being pushed in the back of the queue. If you do not have that connection, we do not think it is reasonable to simply abolish it. So, even if we are in favour of abolishing the candidate rule in principle, we are also in favour of an economy and a structure that does not make a rule or a system in which we push some in the back of the queue • some who would like to have a master's degree but who have not yet got it. So it's like the main entrance to this. Then it has been mentioned, and Enhedslisten has also aired it in different contexts, if instead of just abolishing it one could make some intermediate solution with e.g. a kind of expiration time on a candidate, like other goods have an expiration time. One could, for example: In this way, the candidate has expired after six years, not because he would not be able to use it, but because he understands that once six years have passed, he is again free to apply for a course of study, which means that he will be able to apply for restricted courses on an equal footing with others. It could be an intermediate solution, and I would actually like to help us consider it. I do not know whether it could be the case that one can make it as an amendment to the resolution of the Danish People's Party, or whether it is something we might be able to talk about in another context. I am not going to be able to say that, but it is at least an intermediate solution to this, where the six-year rule, which was included in the education ceiling, is so put over this rule of candidateship, so that it becomes an additional provision in relation to the candidate rule. But that is, overall, the position on the question of the candidate rule. Then there has also been little discussion about those people, probably a smaller number, who have come into contact with the transition from the education ceiling to the old system of the candidate rule. It is true, as has also been mentioned, that we are in the process of discussing it in different contexts, and we must also have a talk with the Minister about it. It is quite clear that we are of course in favour of trying to find some kind of derogation, transitional arrangements, so that the specific people, probably a very small number, do not get squeezed, I think. At least that's an option. One last thing in relation to this proposal, as others have also mentioned, is the funding, where, for some strange reason, you have noticed that it is foreign students who have to pay for this. Firstly, there is no assessment at all of how much foreign students have to pay and how much it covers in relation to the costs that might be involved in abolishing the candidate rule. There are no figures at all on this, so the financing part is very, very loose. And if that is the case, then the rapporteur will say something about it... that one imagines going the way of the Enhedslisten and saying that this should also be followed up by ensuring that the dimensioning is changed, because one should not push anyone back, and I think the rapporteur will say that in a moment that they are not in favour, then we should have much more money on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125024	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125048	Thank you. After all, it is a pleasure to come here after Enhedslisten, who both talked about funding and talked about the six-year rule, which we also had under the bourgeois government. There was a lot of reason, and that was an excellent speech, I must say. I would also like to thank the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party for his proposal. Well, I have a lot of respect for Mr. Knox. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, who has been in this area for a long time, but unfortunately we have our doubts about this proposal. It is, after all, an issue that is under constant consideration and that the abolition of the rule should give equal access, we in the Conservative People's Party therefore unfortunately would not be so. After all, this means that those who already have a Master's degree will now have the opportunity to train on equal terms with others who do not have an education. We do not believe this to be equal; on the contrary, it favours some of those who already have an education. On the other hand, you can apply freely to all those courses where there is no limited admission, and there are many courses, especially our welfare programmes, where we really need some to go in that way too. It would not be a bad thing for some to have had a type of occupation and later to apply, for example. in a teacher or pedagogic education for which we very much need some good and qualified applicants. Now the law that we can say double education, as we call it, is removed so that you can take a new education, even if you have a bachelor's degree. However, the six-year rule, which in the past allowed for the possibility of taking the new education on equal terms, has been abolished. This means that something has been relaxed and something else has been tightened up, and we have supported that. I understand that there are some people out there, and we are also getting many inquiries that may have regretted and that may have taken the wrong education, but it has to be said that life does not stop here. After all, we are going to build on our degree programmes, but it does not always have to be a new Master's degree programme. The fact that you think you have the right and the right to take a completely new Master's degree at the expense of the state may seem to us to have a little too high expectations of what we can expect from our welfare fund. I mean, it's not inexhaustible, even though this government gives a little expression to it with its war chest and other things you spend really, very much money these days. But it is not inexhaustible, and that is why we believe that there must be limits to how many training courses can be taken at the expense of the state. That is why we are against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125324	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125327	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. Now that we talk so beautifully about not just being able to take more Master's degree programmes after each other, at least not if these are places where others are then pushed out, I would say that on the bachelor's degree programme you can do that. So I would like to hear: is Conservatives where they say that if you have a bachelor's degree and want to enter another bachelor's degree where there is a limitation, then you have to get in line there too, in order for there to be fair and equal conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125359	We think that these should be fair terms. If you already have an education, you must stand in the back of the queue with those who do not. We have very, very many young people who are not doing anything; there are some 160,000 young people who do not have an upper secondary education or are in jobs. Now it is not because we think that everyone should take an education, but those who can and have the opportunity should help along the way, and therefore they must have priority, while others must stand in the back of the queue. We have a lot of education, I think it's over 400, and there's a lot of people who are completely free to take up, and then you might try to be a little flexible. But it is clear that we cannot satisfy everyone with this, and we also get a lot of e-mails about it, and I understand that there are some who may be frustrated about it. That is also why we had the six-year rule in the past, which actually provided an opportunity to say that you have taken an education, go out and work, and then you can change.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125453	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125456	Thank you. That was actually the last thing the rapporteur said I would like to follow up on. It may well have been said, and then I have just not heard it, but could it then be an opportunity to work to reinstate the six-year rule that applied under the double-education rule? I think it was the Enhedslisten's rapporteur who said that after six years this training has expired, and then you can take a new one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125522	It has therefore been removed now, so if there is a new government one day, it may well be that we can talk about introducing it. But now it has been removed and the law on dual education has been removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125535	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. I do not see that there are any more rapporteurs on the list present in the Chamber to speak, other than, of course, the rapporteur of the authors of the motion. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125607	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. At times, with most of the initial remarks made by several of the rapporteurs, I had a feeling of being taken back to 24 January last year, when we had the first reading of the abolition of dual education. I must then regret that I heard opposing tactics on the part of the rapporteurs when they came up a little in their rapporteur's speeches, because then they actually started to look like the rapporteurs from the previous times, because we have discussed dual education in here many times, and it has been in the form of citizens' proposals and one and the other. At that time, I myself spoke in favour of maintaining what I am happy to say, and now I hear the rapporteurs here today speaking in the same way as I did at that time. I have to say that I have become wiser, because I think it is important that we do not close doors for young students, but that we keep the opportunities open, not because there are a lot of people who want to use those opportunities, but because it really means a lot to the experience of what opportunities you have, and that is actually the reason why we are bringing this proposal forward today, in other words to give as many opportunities to as many as possible. I can hear that there is certainly no majority for that. One of the things I saw, after all, is that there could be an opportunity to continue working on a six-year rule, and somewhere it wasn't quite unreasonable to say that if you have an education, six years later you could actually be allowed to apply again, i.e. if you really have the motivation that makes you want to spend your time on that. I actually think that could be really, really nice. I just lost track for a second. But I am really looking forward to having this debate as well. At least a number of sides have opened up the way for this, and it is really a pity that it has not yet been implemented, but it can be said that, with regard to those who, after all, have been caught up, I have a reasonable consensus that we should give a helping hand. Those who have based themselves on the fact that they could have some opportunities should be able to find a solution for that. At any rate, if I count correctly, I hear a majority in favour of this, including the SF, so that we can do something at that level, because it is important that they do not experience that just because we are putting an end to a law to help many, we are doing something that makes getting stuck. I do not think we paid particular attention to that. I can hear from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs that the Left was very aware of that at the time. I would say that I was not paying enough attention to it myself, because we should have solved it a year ago, but then we should have solved it now. But thank you very much for the debate and I look forward to us continuing it in other forums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125858	Thank you. There are just a few brief comments. It's only from Mr. Knox's office. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125903	Thank you for that, thank you for your speech, and congratulations on the fact that the good rapporteur has been on a bit of an educational policy journey. We should not get too old or too fine for that, so I would just like to congratulate him on that. In his speech, the rapporteur made it almost sound as if we were unable to get an education when we now reinstate the candidate rule. Can the rapporteur not confirm that even if a Master's degree has been taken, more than half of the Master's degree programmes that we offer will actually allow us to have another training?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304125936	I can confirm that. I can also confirm that the journey I have been on has been on with the Social Democratic Party and to some extent the Left, because the Left then voted yellow here in the end. But I actually saw that we at the time of the Social Democratic Party and myself, for a long time, were united in defending that dual education rule, and we had to find out at some point that it has such a major impact on the experience of young people that something had to be done. That's why we've ended up here where we are now. And yes, it is true that there are opportunities. There were also quite really plenty of opportunities for young people, which were limited by the dual education rule, but they just couldn't see it. Therefore, it became essential to have that rule abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130025	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130028	I just want to sign for the deal that was made. I thought that was the right thing to do. However, what I would like the rapporteur to reply to at the end of this debate is whether the rapporteur thinks it appropriate and appropriate that a candidate who has perhaps taken longer than six years to complete an education should be able to take a place in the queue from someone who has not yet received an education. For what is surely the truth, if you adopt this proposal, is that you do not make any distinction between them and there will be no more seats. So I just want to know whether the rapporteur will answer whether he thinks it is fair and appropriate for someone who has taken a Master's degree to take the place of someone who has not yet received a Master's degree.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130108	I believe that what is central here is the signal that we are sending to young people that there should be no restrictions on what they have the opportunity to apply for. And somewhere I think it's funny that it's not because I think we should have a bachelor's ceiling or a bachelor's rule, but in that area we don't have it. In other words, there is pressure on others to enter training where there are no further places. Why is that so true? That is why I would actually argue that opening the doors and allowing people to apply is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130145	Then we must move on to Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130154	Thank you. The rapporteur spends a lot of time comparing the education ceiling with the candidate rule, and I really think that is a little weird. Because that was very restrictive right when the education ceiling was implemented, and I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that. You started by limiting it so that you couldn't take any extra courses. Then you made a map list of some people you could apply to, and then you made this deal with six years after you put a lot of pressure on it. But it was still significantly more restrictive at that time than saying to some graduate students that they have to choose the programmes from where they are filled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130231	When I put it that way, it is about the fact that what I have learned from this is that the dual education rule was about restricting some, but that, compared to how many students we have, it was actually very, very few, it really prevented anything. But what it did was that virtually all the students saw that there was a door closed, that there was something they could not do, and that is, in my view, the essential argument for abolishing that rule again, that is, that there was an experience that all the doors were closed. And they weren't, and neither are they now. But that's really just why I'm talking about opening this door. I think it is very, very few who will go in through it, but I think there are a lot of people who will experience it as an opportunity that mentally gives a sense of security, so you should not consider not finishing your Master's degree because you want something else, but you can actually finish it and then at some point apply to someone else, if that is what you want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130336	Then you take the place of someone else who doesn't have an education in advance. What I am wondering is that we are very aware of the fact that we are closing doors and closing doors, and it is true that the students were very worried about the education ceiling, and perhaps it was because it was more closed than it is now, because the concern is at least significantly less now. So I am just really glad that you were out on this journey and that you are not going to reinstate the education ceiling when you may eventually come back to power. So thank you for that anyway. I'd like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130413	Thank you very much, and I can promise you that we will not reinstate the education ceiling. Because it has so many negative effects on all levels.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130422	Then we move on to Mr. Bruno Jerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130425	The proposal states that all persons with a Master's degree are free to apply for admission. I assume that it could also have been said that all persons without a master's degree are free to apply for admission. In other words, it is both those who have a candidate and those who do not have a candidate who has free admission. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl That's absolutely right). Yes, it does not say that, but I assume that this is the way it should be understood, and I would like to ask the question which I also mentioned from the platform: why is it that the proposal does not relate at all to the dimensioning and the restriction of access in the system? Because you can't talk about a free admission for everyone, no matter what, if it's the case that you don't somehow deal with the restriction of access, the dimensioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130528-2	As far as I am concerned, these are two different questions. How we measure, how many places there should be on individual education and what we as a society need of one type and another type of educated person is not necessarily the same as saying that there should be no possibility of applying for it and for that group. I think that is two different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130550	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130550-2	I have to say that the authors of the motion for a resolution use the word freely in a slightly different sense than the one in which we at least use it. So "free" doesn't mean "free," "free" just means that you have to fight for the same few places that are there, that is, that's what it's all about. "Free" simply means that there is a common free fight for the few seats there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130625	"Free" means the free right to apply for admission with the rules that now apply to it. Yes, and then it is another discussion, how many places there should be on the individual courses.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130635	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. There are no more brief comments. As no one else wishes to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. If no objection is expressed, it shall be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130656	I would like to point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 9 March 2021. First, we need a explanatory statement and it gives the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130733	The very brief reason why we are standing here is a very sad event from the autumn when a French teacher named Samuel Paty lost his life; he was cold-bloodedly killed because he had shown drawings of the Prophet Muhammad in his teaching. At that time, we called for consultation and, in order to make a long story short, it was not because, at that consultation, we were very comforted by the fact that the Minister had many initiatives that could be taken to ensure that teachers in Denmark can keep and use their freedom of expression. That then led us to call this question debate, but with a little delay, because there has been corona; so it has been cancelled and then it has been programmed again. But the very short question in relation to this question debate is how we ensure that teachers have freedom of expression in the Danish primary school, so that they can freely teach what they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130852	Thank you so much. It was both short, efficient and complete according to the rules. Now the Minister for Children and Education is given the opportunity to give an answer, and then there is one brief comment to be made to the rapporteurs. And then we move on to the debate itself, where the rules are, as they usually are. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304130912	Thank you. It was actually very good that it was according to the rules that it would also be completely new if it were the case that the Conservatives crossed it. A number of members of the Committee on Children's and Education have asked me to explain how the government will ensure support for teachers' freedom of speech so that teachers can freely teach the drawing crisis. It is a continuation of a debate that we started in a conciliation in the autumn, and I thank you for following it up now. We already had a discussion on this at the conciliation meeting, and that is what we are doing here today. It is my concern that teachers do not feel left behind in teaching sensitive or controversial subjects, and therefore I would like to reiterate what I stated at the conciliation meeting on 27 November 2020. Freedom of speech is a fundamental value of Danish democracy. We cannot accept that teachers are being threatened because of their choice of educational theme or teaching material. In Denmark, each school's board of directors sets out the principles for teaching, and it is the individual teacher who chooses the material that supports the teaching within the framework of it. It is a professional choice and it is a freedom that teachers have and that teachers use every day they go to work. Our education system is based on the right of teachers to judge professionally what education benefits their student group, of course, ultimately under the responsibility of the school boards, but I take that freedom and that right extremely seriously, and that is why the government will not interfere in what material teachers choose to use. Protection of teachers' freedom of expression is not about imposing more obligations on teachers and controlling more things centrally. It's not the teachers who are the problem in this case. It is a question of counteracting educational environments characterised by an anti-democratic culture. Safe educational environments with room to debate sensitive issues require us to take action against parallel societies characterised by undemocratic thinking. The Danish social model is based on a community created by trust across different communities, and education plays a crucial role in building a bridge between social and ethnic divides. Our teachers must not feel alone if they are insecure or find it difficult to handle teaching controversial subjects. It is our responsibility as a society that there is a secure framework for the professional and democratic formation of our children and young people. For many years Denmark has been favored by the unity that is created when we meet in the primary school when the cashier's son goes into class with the director's daughter. The common understanding and cohesion and cohesion have come under increasing pressure in recent years, unfortunately it is a huge challenge. In upper secondary education there has been a greater imbalance over the past decade in the composition of pupils, measured both on socio-economics and on ancestry. But also the increasing search for free and private schools with homogeneous student groups affects the composition of pupils in the primary schools; the division into residential areas does the same. And, in the opinion of the government, a solution to the problem of the distribution of pupils must have a broad aim in our education system. Therefore, the government is also searching models for a better distribution of pupils. The work has been slightly delayed by corona, unfortunately, but our aim is to ensure that the education system remains a place where children and young people meet across social and ethnic divides. I recognise that it can be difficult to wait for the big, long-term solution if you, as a teacher, experience an insecure educational environment, and I am therefore prepared to put a number of concrete improvements on the table. Firstly, as Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby suggested at the November conciliation meeting, I will look into whether the emergency and emergency plans we have in schools can be updated. It must be clear what you as a teacher or head teacher do if you are in an insecure or threatening situation. Secondly, I would like to ask the Board of Education and Quality, also called STUK, to develop a theme day which equips the teachers' corps in vulnerable schools to teach controversial subjects. This knowledge already lies with the board's skilled learning consultants, but we need to be better at offering it where there is a need. Thirdly, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, I want to strengthen cooperation between our ministries in preventing and tackling extremist behaviour in schools. The two ministries have previously published a booklet on school action in relation to extremism. It points to the possibility of obtaining advice from the National Centre for the Prevention of Extremism if you experience challenges. There is also local precautionary authority cooperation in the so-called infohouses that address concrete concerns and notifications about extremism. We can benefit from better knowledge of these opportunities, and that is why, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, I will look at how more out-of-date information could be provided. Fourthly, I am looking at interventions that can prevent out-of-action behaviour, including aggressive and threatening behaviour, towards teachers. It's a broader issue, but it's definitely also relevant in this context. The Danish schools are doing an important job in teaching and forming and informing children and young people about democracy and rights, and it is therefore crucial that our teachers feel prepared and, moreover, safe by doing that work. Of course, this requires broad support for the direction we are taking, and that is why, of course, I look forward to hearing what the rapporteurs have to say about the things I have put forward here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304131523	You're welcome. There are a number of rapporteurs who would like to speak in the first round here, and the first is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304131533	Thank you for your words and for setting some initiatives in motion here in the question. That was one of the things we missed a little in relation to the consultation. Today, in reality, I find that the government, like it, recognises that there is a problem here. It's almost the most important thing, because out in many classrooms there can still be teachers who can stand alone with these problems and not really be met with help and not really be met with recognition when they're dealing with this. I just want them to know that we have their backs. I would like an assurance from the Minister. After all, we are now making a decision which states that the government will convene the sector. I think that is wise, because then it leaks through the system, that there is something we need to do about it. Will the Minister give an undertaking that, when you have had that meeting with the sector and before you have to present any more initiatives, you will call the parties in this Chamber and start some sort of debate or at least a discussion on what initiatives can be set in motion to help teachers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304131624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304131625	Yes, indeed. I would like to make a commitment to that. I think it is very important that this is a broad-based debate in the Folketing. After all, it is a question of some absolutely fundamental freedoms and a way in which we have always run the Danish primary school, in which we emphasize the teacher's freedom to choose material for ourselves enormously. On the other hand, we are also encountering some issues here that are new in our society and where, in finding its way through it requires a high degree of thoughtfulness and a strong desire to safeguard our democracy. That, of course, calls for this to be something that we do broadly and jointly with each other. So I would like to give an undertaking on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304131703	Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304131707	Actually, it can be said that Mr. Jacob Mark said it very well. At the conciliation meeting in the autumn there were no initiatives at all, there was no real need for anything, but now there is a majority outside the government, and then it is so convenient that the Minister then finds his way to do something. Some would say, then, that it is rare that it becomes very wholehearted if one is to be forced. In fact, I wonder how the Minister can say in her speech that she supports the teachers when it is the case that we have to be forced to put forward a number of initiatives. On this occasion, I would just like to ask the Minister whether he will not confirm that, when she was the social rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party and there on a negotiating table was a proposal to put an end to violence and threats in the Danish primary school, it was one of the proposals which the Social Democrats and the rapporteur chose to take out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304131759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304131800	I simply cannot answer the first part in relation to the majority, because I do not find that I have been forced to do anything. So the rapporteur needs to go a little deeper on that part in order to be able to comment on it. It is, of course, initiatives that we in the Ministry of Education have set in motion, and I am not entirely sure what the rapporteur thinks about the fact that there should be a majority that has forced us to do something. So the rapporteur has just to explain this. The second point I would like to return to, possibly in writing, because I am a little uncertain as to what kind of proposal the rapporteur is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304131836	It will not be now, but it will be in a general debate. The Minister for Children and Education Well, you don't have two. Sorry). No. In the first round, the rapporteurs and only the rapporteurs have one question, and then we move on to the normal rules. So there can be no dialogue, but there can be clarification. We move on to Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304131859	Thank you so much. This is an extremely important debate and, unfortunately, as was said when Mrs Mai Mercado presented this question, it comes from the fact that we are in a rather creepy and disgusting situation. Now I understand that the Minister is not particularly interested in going into this and supporting the teachers' opportunity to use their full freedom of expression and teach the students about this full freedom of expression, which of course is in Denmark, and then I would just like to hear the Minister's view that the head of the school association, Mr. Claus Hjortdal, on the basis of this actually stated that he does not believe that one should teach the Muslim drawings in the Danish primary school. Now I quote him: "If you know in advance that you are offending some parents and rejecting students, then you have failed in primary school. Our job is not to provoke anyone to distance themselves. The teacher's teaching has failed directly if three students leave the class because they refuse to hear what he says. Does the Minister not really believe that the head of the school here is completely failing his responsibility precisely to ensure the free dialogue, the open mind of the primary school and the right to freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132021	At any rate, I do not agree, but I think, as usual, that New Citizens are dragging things incredibly far. I am not entirely sure that I understand what the rapporteur means by saying that the government should not be willing to go into this. I have just presented four very specific initiatives we have taken in this area. But I understand you have only one comment, so the rapporteur cannot come back to that. But I think it's kind of weird. I would say that for me it is absolutely crucial that teachers have the freedom to choose for themselves what they teach in primary school, and I think that is quite fundamental to our primary school, and then it goes without saying that I do not agree with the chairman of the School Leader's Association with the statements he has made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132109	Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132111	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I will go further with Claus Hjortdal's statements, because they illustrate very well what the debate is about. First of all, it is about what some call the veto of the perpetrator, and then it is about self-censorship. After all, the violent veto is that in practice violent people can prevent us from using some of our civil rights, here freedom of expression, and that is what then points to the self-censorship, because I actually think that what the head of the school association says is a form of self-censorship. About half of all teachers in France say in studies that they've felt this self-censorship. So what I would like to make a comment on is: should the protection against the violent veto not start earlier than what has been proposed? Is the security line proposed and proposed by the Minister not too close to the individual school, and should we not be more fundamental in preventing violent people from exercising a veto, from using our civil rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132224	Indeed, that is what I was trying to address in the speech, which was about if you do not want to wait for the long-term solution, but I think that there are these problems that are fed on the fact that there are many people who think the same thing and do not have a democratic temperament and come together in one place and can create what we call parallel societies when we discuss it. That is why, in my opinion, it is absolutely crucial that we take care of the distribution of pupils in schools, so that there is a clear democratic primary culture at every school in Denmark, and that is what is like mainstream culture on the ground, because that is how it is countered, that there is a parallel society, where it is then made into something at a certain school. It can also be all sorts of other issues, which I very much agree with, that it is also a question of having some long-term tools on board, and that is why something of the first thing we will tackle as soon as the corona releases its roof, will also be exactly the question of the distribution of pupils, which I think is one of the most important tools in preventing parallel communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132339	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132342	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister for saying, in such an interesting way, (1) that the Minister has not changed anything since the consultation, and (2) that this is obviously a discussion on the freedom of method for teachers. The first is very interesting. I heard the recognition that the proposal on my part had adjusted something in relation to the contingency plans, but the rest was something the Minister had stood by all the way through. I really had a hope that we had moved one step further in today's debate in relation to the consultation we had, because there I actually saw that the Minister basically did nothing to show that the government has the back of teachers as in no way. The second thing the Minister said was that this was about freedom of method. Well, excuse me, I am also in favour of teachers' freedom of method. There is nothing in the text of the adoption we have proposed or in what we proposed at conciliation which in any way denies the freedom of method of teachers. That is why I would just like to hear from the Minister: what is it in relation to providing some educational courses which, in the Minister's main, deny the teachers' freedom of method?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132455	I just didn't recognize the picture of coercion. I really think I put forward four new points, four initiatives in other words. So it was just that compulsion element that I didn't quite understand what was all about. In fact, I do not believe that the Left is in favour of boying the freedom of method. I believe that there are other parties in the Folketing who have made proposals to want to decide that one should teach in a certain way on the basis of some particular material. I have not heard the Left make a proposal on this, I would like to say. So when I raise a debate about the freedom of method, it is simply because there are parties that believe that we should kid that freedom of method. Then I would like to say that I have asked the Ministry of Education to provide me with an overview of what are some courses in this field, so that I can get an impression of whether there is or is not available educational material about these things. So there are a great many of them, I would like to say. That's why I don't really see what the need is. If we look down over it, there are three courses from Clio. The National Museum has one. Danmarkshistorien.dk has two. The movie center has one. DIIS has two. Jyllands-Posten has one. Arla's got one. And then there is also in the upper secondary school area that was mentioned so only in the primary school area of • something from both Gyldendal Historie, Religionportalen, Systime, Samfundsfag.dk. The report from the various professional consultants is that there is no need or request for further teaching material, because it is fine as it is now. That means that that part of it for me will in a way be a little more symbolic than something that really responds to a real need out there. Anyway, just to make it clear, I haven't heard the Left have a desire to want to kid that freedom of method. Fortunately, it is the case that here in the Folketing we have a very broad majority behind the desire to maintain a freedom for teachers to decide for themselves what they teach. So I certainly haven't seen that as a dividing line either. So I just want to say thank you. Now I also mentioned it in my speech, but it is the Left that has made one of the proposals behind the four initiatives we are making on the part of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132711	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132713	I think the Minister and the government are incomprehensiblely stubborn in this area. Because we have had the Minister in consultation, I myself have had her in the Chamber during the Wednesday Question Time, we have conducted the debate in the media, and now we have it again today and the Minister does not shy away. This is, of course, first and foremost a safety issue for teachers, and when it is a security issue it is also a matter for the Folketing, for the state and therefore for the government. And I have not received an answer as to how the Minister and the government will ensure that teachers can teach what they want, even when it comes to controversial issues that we all expect them to address. The government and the minister have not answered that question yet. When will we get an answer from the government on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132816	Well, I don't agree, so you can say there's a difference of opinion about that. All other things being equal, I hear here that we should have been forced to do one thing and the other. In this context, we have presented four specific points. A new guide has been prepared at emu.dk on handling difficult topics, compared to what you teach in primary school. We come here with four very concrete measures, while at the same time discussions are also under way in the Ministry of Justice, in relation to how to ensure teachers who are insecure. For everything else equal, if there are threats, police cases. And it has to be, because it must of course be the case that you are being protected by the police, for example, when threats are being made. I also think it is so serious if there are threats that it is actually absolutely crucial that it is precisely the police who take care of it. So I simply do not agree with the way in which it is characterised by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304132921	Thank you. There's nothing more in this round. But I'm gonna try to figure out what's really behind this model, just briefly. Because it is important for all colleagues to be able to make optimum use of all the opportunities that exist when we make arrangements. In 2019 we changed the question debate model, because there was a desire from the parties that you should have a chance to ask the minister a short question, the first time the minister was on the platform, as a kind of extra round, to clarify. Afterwards you go to the normal round, where you have two questions and where you have your rapporteur's speaking time and where you have the right to read your proposal for adoption. Moreover, that speaking time is added to your speaking time so that you do not have to be nervous about not reaching everything if you are the one who has to read the text. This meant that this round was pushed in as an arrangement in which the Minister gets a chance to have a quick dialogue and get a quick clarifying question. What we are doing now is moving to the normal round, and it is completely in accordance with the old rules. It is the case that the rapporteur for the proposers comes first, and otherwise we do so, as usual: all the others are party-ordered. It's the only difference that's on that round. It is to give a more lively debate right here to the start, where you can get a little ping pong and clarify some things, and it has also succeeded. Now we move on to the next one, and there we should remember that the Minister also has an opportunity, as the last one, where there is a common opportunity to ask questions with two questions. That is stated in the Rules of Procedure, but I recognise that most of us do not read the Rules of Procedure. Now there are a few of us who are forced to do so because we have to sit here every once in a while. However, it is very good to know that there are some new opportunities and this should provide an extended opportunity for the query debates to become a little more lively. Forgive my long lesson, but I think it is important that everyone has the opportunity to use the possibilities optimally. We shall now proceed to the debate and thank the Minister, for the first round and the first one I would like to welcome is Mrs Mai Mercado, who is the rapporteur for the questions. It is her rapporteur's speech that she is about to begin, and then we will take the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304133145	Thank you, President. The question debate here today is a follow-up to the consultation we had before Christmas in the wake of the tragic incident in which a French teacher, Samuel Paty, was killed for showing drawings from the satire magazine Charlie Hebdo. Samuel Paty was killed on October 16, 2020. The killing also echoed in Denmark, where soon after I was in P1 Debate to discuss drawings of Muhammad in a Danish context. And that was among other things. with the chairman of Christianity teachers named John Rydahl. I argued that the Muhammad crisis should be part of the elementary school history cannon. I still think so. The history canon contains historical events that have influenced Denmark over time. The latest event in that cannon was the event of September 11, 2001, when two planes flew into the twin towers in New York. It was an important event throughout the world, also in Denmark. I am sure most people will agree that the Mohammed crisis has had almost more impact on Denmark as a country than 11 September. And that is why it is also illogical that this particular event is not on the cannon list, in which the students must be taught, of course with the freedom of method that comes with the whole cannon list. So we are not saying how to teach. The Muhammad crisis is an important and formal period in Denmark's history, and it had great significance and consequences for Denmark as a country. And in this P1 debate this autumn, it came to be about more than our history cannon. Because John Rydahl thought we politicians should start somewhere else. He looked at me across the desk out in the DR City and asked how we, as politicians, can say that we support the teachers and their freedom of expression when we do not even want to take the lead when we do not even want to formulate centrally from the curriculum about the Muhammad crisis, which the teachers can then download from the digital learning platform, what we also call emu.dk. It is a great deal to demand that teachers take the lead when there is not even a formulated learning programme that can be used as inspiration in classrooms. And it also shows a fear of touch, a fear of touch, which has been allowed to grow great. If, in the past, it had become acceptable or even legitimate to talk about and discuss the Mohammed crisis in the Danish primary schools, then I do not think we would have been in the situation we are facing today. If it had already been quite natural and more specific in the 00s than the exception to teach in the Mohammed crisis, we might not have had the same fear of touch. In a way, it can already be said that we, as politicians, have failed. Because if it is not to end up being tabooed, so that we cannot even mention one of the most important periods in recent Danish history, then it is necessary to make it uncommonly common. It cannot be right that in 2021 we still find it difficult to address the Mohammed crisis in the educational context. That should not be the case, but it is the case that teachers are being threatened, and that is precisely why it is important for us politicians to take the lead, because it is about the freedom of speech of teachers. In the days following the murder of Samuel Paty, a media described how a female teacher had been threatened after she wrote on Facebook that she would show the drawings in sympathy for the murdered teacher. Here she received threatening messages which indicated that if she showed the drawings in the teaching, something very ugly would happen to her. That is unacceptable in every way, and it is she and everyone else that we are taking sides in today's debate. In the autumn, the Minister was asked what she would do, including why there were not actually formulated courses on the learning portal emu.dk. And the minister wouldn't answer that in the press at the time. That's Baroque. Many parties would actually like to hear the answer to that question, which is why it was a majority of Parliament's parties who then called the Minister of Education in consultation for that answer. But here it became even more baroque, because the Minister would not recognise at all that it was important to formulate courses for the Muhammad crisis. Because, as she put it, we have not formulated courses for Denmark's entry into the EEC. We'll leave that for a second. So we were not exactly left with the view that the Minister would engage in the freedom of speech of teachers. And since we did not get an answer from the Minister, we have now called for this question debate, unfortunately delayed because of corona. Perhaps I can understand why the Minister found it difficult to tell at the conciliation what she will do for teachers who experience pressure on freedom of expression and who are experiencing threats. It can only be said quietly that the Social Democrats and the very same minister were actually opposed to priority efforts to combat threats and violence against teachers. And she did so as a social rapporteur in a debate before the last election on behalf of her party. The then Minister for Education, Mrs Merete Riisager, had formulated an initiative to counter threats and ensure freedom of speech for teachers, and that was actually one of the first things that was tampered with by the negotiations, and I remember how sorry I was at that time. The problem has not diminished since. Teachers' freedom to express themselves without fear of reprisals has always been crucial and is still crucial. Then I will read out a joint adoption text on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, New Citizens' Party, LA and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that freedom of speech among teachers is under pressure. For example, Danish media has reported on how a Danish teacher was threatened because she wanted to use the Mohammed drawings in teaching. The debate is also topical after the senseless killing of the French teacher Samuel Paty committed on 16 October 2020. Parliament finds it quite unacceptable that there are teachers who are experiencing threats. No teacher should fear reprisals in teaching an important political and historical subject such as the Mohammed crisis. The Danish Parliament notes that the government has not taken the initiative to support the freedom of speech of teachers to a sufficient degree. The Danish Parliament instructs the government to update the school security contingency plans and to prepare learning programmes at emu.dk in the Muhammad crisis, which teachers in primary school have the opportunity to use in teaching. The Folketing also instructs the government to include the Muhammed crisis as a formal period in the history canon. It is important that the government sends a clear signal that teaching in the Muhammad crisis is part of Danish contemporary history. V 79)
ParlaMint-DK_20210304133805	Thank you very much to Mrs Mai Mercado. There are no brief comments. We have had the text of adoption and it is part of the further negotiations from now on. I would like to welcome Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304133834	Thank you, President. The freedom of choice and the freedom of method of teachers are, after all, a really old virtue, an important part of our educational history and, of course, also a principle that we must uphold. I think we agree on that, at least most of the parties in here. But it is also true that there is a difference between being free to do and teach formally as you like, and whether you feel free to have anxieties, anxiety, feeling, experiencing or fearing threats. Unfortunately, this is a reality which has been reported and which is less old, one can say, and of course not all teachers, but which nevertheless exists for some teachers, and which is something that has changed the reality in which teachers act, and that is the impetus for the consultation we have had. It is the attitude of the discussion we have today that there are some who are experiencing pressure and a self-censorship or a censorship. It is, of course, and fortunately not all teachers, but we must take it seriously that it exists because it is unacceptable. It is unacceptable in Danish society that one does not have freedom of expression and that one cannot teach as one wishes. On the other hand, what is really complicated is how to ensure that freedom of expression. After all, the Minister has now reviewed a number of the initiatives we want to take: extensions of existing initiatives, upgrades and development of the contingency plan so that it not only takes into account fire and terrorist attacks, but also takes into account how to deal with threatening situations where you feel under pressure. How do we deal with schools where there is a greater risk of teachers experiencing this pressure, i.e. where there may be an unhealthy culture in accepting that it is the teacher who organises the teaching? How do you handle courses that are more controversial and where you more often experience a reaction from the pupils or their parents, from their families or from religious heads or from who might now interfere in the public debate or attend the school and have an opinion on it? It's not easy, and that's why there's no one, no matter how much we want it, silver bullet that can make this problem go away, but we have to do something to make our teachers able to handle it. That is one of the reasons why you have the guidance work and progress on emu.dk, which, if you may say so, goes through all the considerations you have when addressing a controversial subject. It could be pornography, or it could be the Muhammad crisis. It is true, in a number of ways, that it may be associated with the strong reaction of some people, and there, as a teacher, we need to make special considerations. It is, of course, very wise not to be left alone as a teacher thinking about what is for and against here. This is why the guidance material is so crucial. I do not think, and this should then be the comment on what has been read out by Mrs Mai Mercado from the proposal for adoption the Minister also mentioned that there are courses on the crisis, the Mohammed drawings and so on. If it is difficult for teachers to teach this course as it is today, then it will not be easier if they think that they should be taught a little differently from what was laid up in the course that has been released and blue stamped. So we are not going to set the teachers free by giving them a list of findings in this area, but of course we must give the teachers some tools to deal with the pressure and, by the way, a certainty that we have their backs. I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, and it says: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the freedom of speech of teachers is under pressure and considers it essential that controversial issues, including the Muhammed crisis, can be taught without fear or self-censorship. For this reason, the Danish Parliament wishes to update the teachers' contingency plans so that they better address the need for security, and considers it necessary for emu.dk to have guidance material in relation to the teaching of critical thinking, freedom of expression and controversial topics where resistance and/or strong reactions from pupils or the surrounding world can be expected. In schools where teachers are at particular risk of experiencing insecurity or threatening behaviour in connection with teaching, further initiatives are taken to prevent negative social control and radicalisation. Following dialogue with relevant parties, the Government is invited to propose measures to strengthen teachers' freedom of expression and security. The Folketing does not wish to require teachers to teach specific materials or courses and stresses that the specific teaching is organised on the basis of a professional assessment. • V 80).
ParlaMint-DK_20210304134436	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first is from Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304134443	It is always said when you give your rapporteur's speech that this is a very important debate, but it is only a debate if you are actually debating. And that involves asking questions to others who come up and take the floor. So I would be delighted if the Social Democrats were to take the floor when the others have to speak. I just want to ask you a very, very quiet question. I am very surprised that social democracy will not take the lead in that fight for teachers' freedom of expression. So, does it not make an impression when the chairman of Christianity's knowledge teachers says that it must be you who must take the first step, and only when one is sure that there are educational courses will it be legitimate to use them and teach after them? Does the rapporteur not see that it is politicians who must take the lead in the fight for freedom of speech for teachers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304134536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304134537	I didn't quite understand the first criticism. Was it a question of perhaps commenting on Mrs Mai Mercado's rapporteur's speech? I'm sorry, of course, if it wasn't taken ill. Of course, as politicians, we must support the freedom of speech of teachers, including the real freedom of expression, that is, the freedom from coercion and the fear of threats. What we are discussing here is how we can free teachers from that compulsion. And there Mrs Mai Mercado believes that this can be done by making a course of teaching which is then what one should stick to. I find it hard to see how you as a teacher should have easier to take your freedom of method with and respect it in a situation where you have then said that this is the way to teach this particular course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304134634	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304134635	So, the starting point we came from in the autumn was that the Social Democrats would not take any initiatives. Sir. Jacob Mark said exactly in his opening question that it was a place where you had to change your mind, and that's fair enough. Perhaps it was because it was realised that there was a majority outside the government who actually wanted initiatives to be taken. But I just think it's very hard to dress up with borrowed feathers and say that you fight the fight when you've been pressured to fight that fight. And the fight is not finished with the initiatives that you are proposing. In fact, if you are to move something, it must be the politicians who take the lead and ensure that you get started on having those courses done that make it legitimate to be able to address it and teach it here in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304134722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304134723	Unfortunately, I do not think that any of us is delusional about the fact that we are going to get to the end of the initiatives that have already been taken. Moreover, it says in the adoption that we must discuss further initiatives, including with the parties. And Mr. Jacob Mark was confirmed before that it will also be a political debate once the next steps have been taken. So, no, we don't think this is easy, and that may in fact be the problem with this debate. Because when it comes to first having all that christiansborg-like stuff about who knew what and when, and about where there was a majority and something like that, the problem here is in relation to the reality that teachers are in, that the problem is not easy to solve. This cannot be solved by the adoption of Christiansborg, that is. But should we not try? Should we not dress the teachers better? No, of course we shouldn't. Should we support teacher training and guidance on how to handle these things? Of course we do. Because it is extremely important that they can put into practice the freedom of expression they formally have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304134825	Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304134828	Thank you so much. I have to say first of all that both the Minister and now also the Socialist rapporteur are talking about the freedom of teachers. Both are from a party that has been involved in this reform of primary school, as if something is forcing schools down a completely closed path, where there is a proper way of teaching and a wrong one, and where you almost go all the way into the classroom and dictate how to do school. So it sounds a little hollow. But there is some knowledge that is better than others. There is some knowledge that you as a student in the Danish primary school should be able to acquire. I would just like to hear the Socialist rapporteur say that the Socialist rapporteur is standing and saying that these contingency plans had been drawn up for some controversial matters. For example, the rapporteur mentions pornography, but I know nobody has ever been killed to teach pornography. It may be that there are some parents I have never experienced what has been encountered by the cuffs. But this is really about a threat. This is not just a controversial issue. It's something that needs to be taught. It's part of the Danish story. What will the Social Democrats do about the fact that it is really such a big problem that teachers do not dare stand alone out there and teach it? Why don't you want to do something?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304134951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304134952	I must first say that I find it difficult to recognise the description of the primary school reform imperfect as it may be, the improvement possibilities are there, and we are also discussing them on an ongoing basis. However, I do not recognise the image of the rapporteur. In fact, I have seen reactions to pornography as well, but fortunately not killing, and fortunately that is not happening. Now there is, in fact, sometimes a coincidence among those who are encountered with the cuffs of one and the other, but peace be with it. What is the point and what is important to us is, after all, to enable teachers to handle something that gives a response from either pupils or the outside world. I think that is actually a better way to deal with it than to say that it is only if this is what gives a response that you have to deal with it. Of course, you have to deal broadly with things that are so controversial that you can actually expect or fear that some people are reacting. But if you are to remove the fear of teachers, it is precisely by giving them tools to deal with that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135105	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135106	Then I would just like to know whether the Socialist rapporteur does not think that the Muhammad crisis and the Mohammed drawings are an absolutely essential part of Danish history and therefore should naturally also be part of the curriculum. There are many things that have been written into the history canon over the years, because you have thought it was important. But you don't want to go in there and touch this. It seems that there is also a fear of concern on the part of the Social Democrats and the government. I find that disappointing. Why does the Socialist rapporteur not consider the Muhammed crisis and Mohammed drawings and education on freedom of expression to be important?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135153	I think it is quite indisputable that the Mohammed crisis is important, and this also applies to freedom of expression and democratic education. Of course, all these things are important. I find it difficult to see that there are teachers who do not also touch on these issues of freedom of expression and critical thinking. That is also in the proposal for adoption. It is to put the emphasis on the fact that, of course, it is also necessary to be able to deal with the difficult things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135230	Then we've come to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135232	Thank you. I just have to say that I think what remains is that the Socialists are simply pushing responsibility to the individual teacher. They say, we think it's important, but you're gonna have to mess with it yourself out there. Well, I think that the discussion we had on the killing of Samuel Paty in the autumn and the demonstrations and support globally, with the focus on teachers' freedom, their freedom of expression, their freedom of method in Denmark as well as globally, should have shown that it is no use just saying that it must be the individual teacher himself. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur about what the question is about, namely educational courses at emu.dk. So, I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur believes that it would be a good idea to kidnap the freedom of method if a course were to be carried out at emu.dk. There is a course within the history course called "Human Rights in a global perspective," which focuses on education, and there is a programme called "My neighbourhood," which focuses on the middle level and the education and is about entrepreneurship and a little different things. Is it the rapporteur's view that the teacher no longer has the freedom of method in relation to these two subjects, since there is a course on emu.dk, that is, on the learning portal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135351	What I am saying is that this issue is actually difficult to manage and that it is not easily manageable. If Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby wants to formulate a course of teaching, let us say without Mohammed drawings, but then there are some teachers who think it is extremely important to show them, then it will be even more complicated for those teachers to actually argue why they want to show them, so now that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby has said that one can easily make a progress on the Mohammed crisis without showing those drawings. That's why you're creating a new problem. You're not just solving the problem. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby herself has been Minister of Education since the Muhammad crisis, and if this was very easy to resolve, then perhaps I also think that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby herself had taken the initiative to resolve it. The truth is, this isn't easy to solve. But what must not be discussed is whether we support the freedom of speech of teachers and their ability to teach as they see fit. Of course, we can do something to strengthen them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135502	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135503	Well, that's outside talk, because there's nothing in the question that indicates that there's only one course, and then it has to be a choice between whether you want to show the drawings or you don't want to. Well, this is a controversial issue. It is the tip of the iceberg of controversial issues because it also includes threats, security policy, the fear that you may end up losing your life, as happened to Samuel Paty in a suburb of Paris. That is exactly the core of why we have to shift some of the responsibility from the individual teacher by saying from the centre: Try to hear here, here is some guidance material, here is some inspirational material, here are some courses; take it, or don't have the freedom of method, but we make it available. Why do the Socialists not want that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135554	Well, it says in the proposal for adoption that we have to create learning programmes, which moreover need to be updated, because there are learning courses and that it needs to be able to handle these things. So I do not recognize the picture that we do not want to contribute to guiding the teachers in it or, incidentally, to dressing them better in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135616	The next question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135620	In the municipalities, the Social Democrats fight out tendering with beaks and claws, but in this case they outsource responsibility to teachers, both when it comes to teaching the Mohammed drawings and when it comes to their own safety. The Minister said boldly that this was a police question and that this was not really to be dealt with. But the problem is that when the police get involved, the crime has occurred whether it is a threat, an attack or worse. So why on earth do the Social Democrats and the government want to outsource responsibility to the teachers so that they face the problem entirely themselves? Why will the Socialists not help and support teachers so that they can teach this subject fairly safely and freely? Why are you so let down?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135720	The only thing this debate has been about is what we can do to support teachers in their situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135728	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135734	That wasn't an answer. We are not getting an answer to anything, and that is simply not good enough, Mr President. Jens Joel. The teachers out there have a very specific problem, there is a very specific security threat, and the government's answer is that it has to deal with the police when there is a threat, and then there is a little loose talk here and there. That's not good enough. That is quite specific. The government simply has to pull itself together and make concrete proposals on what can be done to ensure teachers, to support teachers, to back them up, and that is not happening now. When it is a matter of security, it is the State, the Folketing and the government's responsibility to secure them. That's not gonna happen now. Why? Why are you letting them down?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135825	It's not actually an attempt to be polemical. This whole debate is about what we can do, and I think it is about what we can do. What is my challenge, I think, with the question from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, it sounds like the problem is gone if we do A, but unfortunately that is not the reality. The seriousness of the teachers cannot be snapped away by the fact that we are doing A or B from in here, and we have to bear that in mind if we are to take the problem seriously. I am, in fact, a little pricked by the fact that the right is pretending that we can fix this both easily and quickly, because unfortunately I do not believe that. But the fact that it has to be fixed is obvious, and that is what we have discussed today, i.e. how we can get closer to fixing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135914	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. There are no more brief comments. And he has been standing here before, I see, because we have tried to introduce the tradition that it is the outgoing rapporteur who is just wiping the table for the next one, so that you provide a service to your colleague. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and she has now had the table completely wiped off and ready by a Socialist. We have a technical problem with a record we can't get down, but we're trying to live with that. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304135957	When we had the conciliation in the autumn, the background was tragic. It was a killing of a human being, Samuel Paty, who was also a teacher. He was the reason why we were sitting at the conciliation meeting in the autumn. • French schoolteacher, who in the harshest and most brutal way reminds us all that freedom does not come of itself, that freedom and the right to freedom must be fought out and that it must be protected, otherwise it will disappear again. Freedom is not just the freedom to express itself, the freedom to live as you like, the freedom to love what you want, and the freedom to make the choices in life that you want. Freedom is also the freedom of method when we talk about the education sector today, but the freedom of method does not exist if fear fills so much that one no longer dares choose freely. The right to make a choice is not there, of course, if the fear of one's life is so great that freedom is not really there, and so it is of no use that, in the debate we have today, we do not recognise that this debate on freedom of speech on the freedom of method for teachers, on freedom of speech for teachers, on teaching the Muhammed crisis and on showing the Muhammed drawings is not just a educational discussion, but also a security discussion which is ultimately about people's safety. It is also a fundamental discussion about actually fighting to ensure freedom. There is a huge political responsibility on our part to ensure that it is not the individual who has to take the fight on his own behalf that each teacher is not left to himself, but that as a community, as a community, as politicians and as politicians in the field of education, we are also taking the fight on behalf of teachers to fight for their freedom of expression, the fight for their freedom of education, the fight for their freedom of method. I therefore think that today's debate is extremely fundamental, and it is also, I think, very sad that I find it unfortunate that we have not come much further than when we were in the conciliation in the autumn. Because I thought that the killing of Samuel Paty would be such a call to all of us to open our eyes and also to the fact that it is not only something that happens in France, but also something that can happen in Denmark. We have seen it with threats to Danish teachers. We have seen it in some of the studies that have been carried out, for example. in the field of secondary and upper secondary education, including: Denmark's Radio conducted a survey where there were 27 teachers and 62 teachers out of the total amount, i.e. approx. 20% who said they would probably not show the drawings in the future. One quote from the survey was: "It's extremely scary. And can really hurt your stomach in relation to the reactions you might have risked. And frankly, I doubt what I'm doing forward in relation to the drawings, explains a teacher. If you took folkskolen.dk's study among their teacher panel, there was barely 21 per cent here. of the teachers who said that they did not use the drawings in the teaching when teaching in the Muhammad crisis, and that they did not, because they feared in the end for their lives, for threats, that the students and their parents would behave threateningly and have a behavior that made them feel exposed as a target. Some of them even defined it so clearly that they feared becoming a target for terrorism. These aren't numbers you can just minimize. This is the everyday life in which the teachers stand, and therefore the least we could do from in here was to take away some of the responsibility by making inspirational material and standardized courses that you could choose to use or not use, depending on what you wanted, but so you could see that someone had your back. The least we could do was update the cannon list, so we also got contemporary history in our history cannon. The Muhammed crisis is one of the examples mentioned by social science teachers themselves. I think it is obvious, just as it is obvious to update the contingency plans, but also to take responsibility for ensuring that teachers do not have an experience that the security that has to be, the security that has to be for them, if you fear threats or you experience specific threats, is given low priority and that your approach is put at the bottom of the pile if you call the police. It's the least we can do. Unfortunately, in today's debate, I find that we cannot even agree to do so in this House. I think that's too bad. Because that's how we're gonna end up abandoning the teachers. Then we do not have their backs, and then we turn this discussion into a political discussion instead of raising the higher one and turning it into a discussion about creating a consensus to stand guard over freedoms and stand guard over our teachers in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304140539	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304140542	Thank you. The proposal that the Left itself brought to the table about contingency plans and that we should know what we are doing and that there should be, if we may say so, a lifeline, that is, a place to do something about it, a place to get help, I think we agree on that. That is what we are discussing today: how we can do more of it. We're also discussing how to dress the teachers better to handle these things. And it is indescribably tragic about the killing in October, but unfortunately it is not the first time. That is why I really have a question for Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, because I think it sounds as if Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby has found the solution that is easy and that it has been done on top of the killing of Samuel Paty, and now you can fix it. There's just going to be my claim that this problem is older, and why hasn't Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby done it while she was Minister of Education, if there's actually an easy way to solve it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304140648	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304140649	Well, there are no easy ways to solve it, and it's not like if we do this, we solve the problem. I didn't say that either. I said it was the least we could do. And if we look at the contingency plans, which I think are fine, we are actually updating them while I was Minister for Children and Education, because it became clear to me that there was in fact not enough focus on terrorism and threats to teachers. That's it. I think there might be even more. We also updated the legislation in relation to if you are employed in public office and are subjected to harassment and threats, both in terms of what the penalty is, but also, in terms of what the response should be. So I'm just not buying that argument that we shouldn't have done anything. But no one, even when I was Minister for Children and Education, said that we would have solved the problem. We didn't. And we don't. For the fight for freedom one must never take for granted, and we will take it day after day. If you don't want to acknowledge it, we'll never get to the finish line. But we also need to move, and that is what we are proposing, namely to take steps to lift responsibility from being outsourced to the individual teacher, to having their backs and taking a greater share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304140805	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304140806	I appreciate that recognition. And it is true that it is not new. In other words, the rapporteur of the Left has always been open to the fact that this is complicated, perhaps with the exception of in this Chamber and sometimes when you listen to it in the press. And that is really just what I am appealing to if we are to solve a social task that is fundamental. The risk, the new threat that we have experienced since 11 September, does not take up everything, but it fills everything for those who are affected. That conflict is new, and we must, of course, deal with it. But to pretend to each other that with the adoption that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby is behind on the platform, we are significantly different from the adoption that we are behind, I think that we are blinding our eyes. Because we're taking steps today. It is wise, it is good, and I think that should be acknowledged. Then we can disagree on the nuances of it. But we're taking steps. And if Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby had the solution that would solve the problem, she could bring it instead of saying that we will not present it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304140914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304140917	As long as there are people in this world who want to hurt Denmark, democracy will hurt, freedom will hurt, so we are not in the goal. It will be a struggle for freedom that we are going to take from many perspectives all the time. That is why it is a naive view which the rapporteur has a little in mind, namely that we should then simply put forward the total solution. After all, the political commitment that I have and that of my party is basically about guaranteeing freedom in various areas of life in our society. The discussion we have today is specifically about the education sector. There we say that we believe in the fact that the concrete offers we make will help put this more on the agenda in a way where we also have the back of teachers and ensure their safety better than we do at present. And that is what is needed. The murder of Samuel Paty merely stressed the need for us to be conscious all the time and for us to act constantly and also to relate to what kind of educational reality teachers are in out there, where fear plays an increasingly important role.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304141016	Thank you to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. There are no more brief comments. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Alex Ahrendtsen, and before that, I should like to say that when a proposal is put forward for adoption, it is part of the further negotiations. Most people regard this as a matter of course, but for the sake of the Minutes, it has to be said. And we currently have two proposals for adoption, one from Mrs Mai Mercado and one from Mr Seligman. Jens Joel. It's just to outline the rules. And, of course, they are part of the debate, that is clear. Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304141057	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing the freedom of speech of teachers, and there is no reason to hide the fact that it is a question of Muhamedanism and its many threats to freedom of expression. The Government and the Ministry of Education have outsourced responsibility to the teachers when deciding whether to teach controversial subjects. And on several occasions, including in this Chamber, the Minister has refused to come to their rescue in any way. The Danish People's Party therefore strongly criticises the government. That's not good enough. Today it is up to the teachers themselves to assess whether they will teach the Muhammad crisis. There are no learning courses on the Ministry's learning portal. In other words, they themselves must piece together. This is a not entirely insignificant task because the Mohammed crisis is extensive and complex. This requires knowledge of many things, and it can be difficult to find time for it in an already pressured teacher's everyday life. At the same time, if a person's hearted teachers throws himself over the task because of a strong social mind, they risk being threatened by extremist Moslems who use only one language, the language of violence and the threat. These teachers may also lose support from the school's management, from parents, from local politicians, from the media, from the Teachers' Association and from parliament's limp politicians, if they dare to teach the subject. All of a sudden, they're all alone. No wonder so many teachers refrain from teaching the subject. There are simply too many dangers associated with it. In the Danish People's Party, it is our position that we should not leave the teachers alone with this resolution. We can't outsource it to them. It is the task of the Folketing to take that responsibility upon itself, i.e.: The government's. The Minister should therefore ask the Ministry to prepare a learning programme tailored to the primary schools. This will make it easier for teachers to take it up in teaching. The Minister may also take steps to make the Muhammad crisis part of the canon lists, so that the state thereby obliges teachers to teach it. In this way they can tell students and parents that this is something to which the Folketing has committed them. You could also make a mandatory national themed day about freedom of speech a bit like the exercise day or Operation Daywork. And Operation Daywork could be deleted for the benefit of the Freedom Day that would be good for many. The Muslim drawings could then be an aspect of the whole discussion on freedom of expression; it does not have to be any harder. After all, it is the Folketing that decides, and thus it is the Folketing that takes the yoke off the teachers' shoulders. In fact, it is rather awkward that we still have so many years later a social democracy that has not fully grasped the seriousness of the Muhammad crisis and still suffers from fear of touch, political correctness and lukewarm multicultural submissiveness. Finally, there is the safety of teachers and the security issue will be outsourced to the police. The Minister has clearly said so from the platform today, and she has said so on other occasions. But it's not preventive. The police aren't involved until the deed is done, and then it's too late. That is why safety is prevention, and the state must stand by it. The state has to take responsibility. We are not doing that at the moment; we are leaving the teachers alone in what is left behind. That is simply not good enough, Minister. And I do not understand the stubbornness she and the government and the support parties are showing. It must be possible to do better for the sake of our children, for the sake of the country, for the sake of the future. This is so crucial. These are matters of principle, and I think we are failing there. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304141538	You're welcome, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no brief comments, so if Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen will help with a despriting, we'll get ready for mr. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party. Welcome, sir. Jacob Mark. The word is free. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304141611	This debate is important because it is time for us to show all teachers in Denmark that we are behind them and support them, even when they are teaching controversial subjects. This debate is important because teachers need to know that they are not alone, and this debate is important because it is time that it was established that we still have a problem in Denmark at school with a culture where more and more teachers are experiencing threats, are experiencing harassment, experience self-censorship, experience that there are things they cannot talk about and that they are not backed up when it burns on. But let me start somewhere else. In France a teacher named Samuel Paty lost his life after showing drawings of the prophet Muhammad. The killer went to see Samuel Paty on Friday afternoon at the school where he worked. Here he asked some students to appoint the schoolteacher. The perpetrator followed the teacher and attacked him with a knife and slit his throat on open street. The terrible killing started a movement of people who shared the message of Je suis Samuel. That means I'm Samuel. In Denmark there are thousands of people who are actually like Samuel. They go to work and they're teachers. They teach to give young people skills, knowledge and education. They are passionate about young people, more than they are passionate about something else, and yet they often feel alone when teaching controversial subjects, because we also have some of the problems in Denmark that you have in France. No, there haven't been murders, but that doesn't mean there have been no problems. We have teachers who experience older brothers who will not accept their little brothers being taught the holocaust or the Israel-Palestine conflict; teachers who experience being harassed because they tell about the history of pornography; teachers who are threatened by parents because they teach a short story about homosexuals; teachers who cannot teach the Muhammad crisis or show the Mohammed drawings without being threatened with the lives of hidden facebook profiles; and teachers who get bottled up because they use clippings of the Jutland-Posten in teaching. One of those teachers even sits in the audience today. It happens, and it happens more often than we think, and yet it is a taboo to talk about in many classrooms. Many of the teachers who teach these controversial subjects or try to draw attention to the problems are accused of being racist. You are being accused of voting in a certain way, and what is it that you vote? They're almost gonna have to explain their party color. They are being accused of speaking in a harsh tone, even though they really are just passionate about doing the teaching that we politicians want them to do. Sometimes I think this is because their colleagues from other parts of the country may be working in schools where there are no problems, and then you think: they do not exist. At other times, I think the teachers are a little frightened because you think the debate can be a little harsh, and should you get involved in it? And sometimes it simply has to do with the fact that there are people in this country who do not want to see and who take a misunderstood view of radical Islamism, which I believe is the greatest threat to teachers' freedom of expression in schools and schools today. And yes, there are places in Denmark where there are other dogmatic religious views that are threatening, but that is not the biggest problem. And yes, the vast majority of students are good people, but that doesn't mean there's no problem. It is time we supported the teachers and put an end to the problems that exist. We are in a constant fight for our freedoms, and teachers are at the forefront, and we have asked them to do so. That is why I am also pleased that we are addressing the fact that today, in a united Parliament, we recognise that there is a problem that we need to address. We're strengthening the contingency plans. We strengthen the guidance in the course of which one can expect to face opposition from the outside world. We call the representatives of the sector and ask them to make initiatives with the government, and then we meet afterwards and make more initiatives, and that is really what I think is most important today. I would have liked to have been involved in the preparation of the courses I probably should not have done them, but I would have liked to have been involved in ensuring that there were courses, and it may also be that we should end up there, but the most important thing is that there is a united Parliament which says to all teachers in all classrooms: yes, this exists, and no, you are not a racist, and no, you are not voting for any particular party because you point out this problem. This is one of the most important freedom struggles today. We support the freedoms and show the young people that this is worth fighting for, no matter what big brother, mother or father says. That is why I would like to thank the other parties who have also been involved in this debate. We have not finished the debate, but now we are well under way, and that is what we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142121	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142125	Thanks for a good speech. But there's one thing that puzzles me. Sir. Jacob Mark, along with the other bourgeois parties, is calling for the question, and great efforts were made to obtain Mr. Jacob Mark is included in our adoption text. But then something happened. For then he was hit by the great Social Democratic hammer, he was run over by a social democratic roadroll, the Social Democratic wind blew him completely, he fell to the titty, and he went along with the Social Democrats on their very vague text. Sir. Jacob Mark could have been on our team, which is clear, which makes demands that impose and that do not talk out of it. So, dear sir. Jacob Mark, what the hell happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142227	I do not know whether it is because it has been a long time since I was in the Chamber, but the answer to that question is really related to the feeling I have had while I have been in the Chamber today, that is to say, no, how much we are arguing, and that is just the fact that the rapporteur is talking about teams. There's no point in this debate. I don't think there is. With both texts for adoption, a unanimous Parliament states that all teachers must be able to teach controversial subjects, and I am concerned with bringing the Folketing together, I am concerned with moving the government, and since the consultation, four or five new initiatives have now emerged, and now the sector is being convened, and then the conciliation circle must meet and discuss further initiatives. Instead of the team thing, I'm really concerned that we're getting it together a little, because I think that's what teachers need most. Then you can discuss all sorts of things about progress, but that is not what matters here. The important thing is that the teachers know that we support them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142318	Sir. Jacob Mark, it's out of the question. For a year we've been trying to get the government to wake up, and Mr. Jacob Mark has agreed to take part in this inquiry debate, for which he should be commended. And then it would have dressed Mr. Jacob Mark to stand by what needs to be done, namely to make clear instructions and a clear imposition on the government, instead of making outside talk and vague wordings that do not lead to anything, and where you just want to slap the security issue over to the police. Well, sir. Jacob Mark could have done something real today. Instead, he has just chosen to join the Socialists because they really do not want to do anything because they do not dare to do anything. So, dear sir. Jacob Mark, it's not about gathering, it's about standing by what you believe in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142415	But first of all, a number of initiatives are actually being set in motion which I believe will help. Secondly, I believe that the most valuable thing we are doing here is, in fact, to set in motion a process of meeting with the sector, listening to them, discussing with them, stating that there is a problem so that teachers no longer have to feel alone in the classrooms and then meet again across the parties and say: what is it that needs to be done? It is as if we have now agreed, at least in the blue block, that the solution to all our problems is to do a course of teaching at emu.dk. I'd like to do a course on emu.dk, but that's just not what it's all about, and that's not what's going to solve it. What is going to solve this is that we are standing together and talking to the sector, discussing this in depth, and I believe that this will be resolved with the text of the adoption that we have made together with the Social Democrats, the Enhedslisten and Radicals. I also think that the text adopted by the Blues is excellent, in addition to being somewhat polemical.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142509	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142512	Thank you very much, and thank you for a very good speech. The rapporteur mentions a great many specific issues with which there are problems in the Danish primary school, but the rapporteur does not mention in a single word exactly what the cause of all these problems is. So, in my first question, I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he could put some words on exactly who we are having problems with all the things the rapporteur mentions in his otherwise quite excellent speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142545	Compared to the majority of it, for example, if it: is about the holocaust or it's about the Muhammed crisis or it's about the conditions of homosexuals, is the trend we see, typically in the Western region, in some places in Copenhagen and also in some places like this. the place I come from, Køge, that it is radical Islamism and a dogmatically outdated religious view that is the cause of that problem, and we have a responsibility to back the teachers when they face it. And I believe that children are children. I do not believe that children are born with dogmatic views, but it comes from big siblings, it comes from parents, and therefore we need to stand with them. What I just said was that there are other dogmatic religious views too, and I am also opposed to them, and we must also stand together in relation to them. But most of the problems at the moment, and what gives rise to this debate, are a dogmatic Islamic view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142638	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142639	Thank you for acknowledging that the problem here is Islam. By the way, the rapporteur and I can just have a cup of coffee one day, and then I will tell the rapporteur how we are really going to solve the problems from scratch.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142655	Now I have spoken an awful lot about religion lately, because I have been baptized, and it is evidently a story in itself. But one of the reasons why I was not baptized when I was little, and that I did not want to be confirmed, was precisely about all the evil deeds that religion has been used for, and I believe that religion is what one makes it, and I do not think that one can blame religion in general for some people's deeds. But what is so crucial is that we teach our young people not to use religion to rule, to strip people's freedoms or to suppress. And that's what some people want out there locally today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142728	There is a brief comment from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142729	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech. I fully agree with the rapporteur that a great deal of this is rooted in radical Islamism and a lack of tolerance and a lack of understanding of what societies Denmark and France, in other words our Western democracies, are, even if we are talking about Samuel Paty. I fully recognise the right of the SF to agree to a proposal for adoption with the Socialists. I just think that when the rapporteur stands on the platform and says that this has been done because something is now being started and, at the same time, when I heard the Minister at the beginning say from the platform that nothing has changed and that the Minister is doing exactly the same thing that the Minister has always wanted to do, it is an expression of two very different views of what is needed in order for us to have teachers' backs better than we have today. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur: when will the rapporteur's patience be released? When are we gonna do more? In fact, I heard the rapporteur say that it is probably not enough for us to do more, so when will the patience run out?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142848	Now we have a question debate today, and only since the conciliation has it been possible to agree with the government to launch a number of initiatives, so I think that my patience is enough for us to meet now in the sector and discuss it with the sector. There was today a very good question about Claus Hjortdal, who is chairman of the School Leader's Association, who still does not think that one should teach subjects that are pesky, which I think is a completely crazy view. So it is obvious to meet with just one such as Claus Hjortdal, but also with the others from the sector, which I sometimes think may be a little touching, discussing with them and then then putting us together and saying: Now we have talked to them, what can we do? If that discussion does not come, my patience will run out, and if that discussion does not lead to anything useful, my patience will run out. But I actually believe in the government when it says it's gonna start something.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142938	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304142939	On the left side, we took the initiative for a meeting with the sector, which was held in the autumn, on 2 November. It was sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, our President, myself and a number of other representatives from the Left who met representatives from the whole education sector: student side, teacher side and management side. I think that what was characteristic of that part of the discussion was that what they said was contrary to what the rapporteur also very figuratively described in his speech. I am talking about the discussion in the teachers' rooms; where you are standing in front of the catheter and experiencing the threats. There is not necessarily the same picture of it. Therefore, I would just like to urge that we also deal much more with what the individual teacher experiences and meets, and not just with what the management believes and thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143028	I think that's right. I agree with that. We must take these considerations into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143035	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143039	There are several who have said that this was a very good speech made by the rapporteur; in fact, I thought it was a fantastic speech and a fantastic speech which, in a fine way, really outlined what the problem is all about in the classrooms. The problem for me is that I am still left with a feeling of being extremely disappointed, because the initiatives that the SF is now helping to vote through are not at all aimed at getting sufficient effort done in those classrooms. Quite frankly, there will be no difference in getting a partnership and a sector to talk about. The chairman of Christianity teachers, John Rydahl, is right to say that the change must take place from here. And the rapporteur himself says that he agrees that it would be good to have a course of teaching at emu.dk. Therefore, my question should just be: why did the SF not choose to get it into the proposal for adoption, so that formulating a course of teaching at emu.dk also became part of a proposal for adoption on which a Parliament could meet together in agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143145	But we would not have been able to agree on that, because there were parties that did not want to, and for SF it was crucial now to have a proposal for adoption that moves the whole of the Folketing in a direction that recognises that there are problems in Denmark in teaching the Muhammad crisis; that moves the whole of the Folketing in relation to launching initiatives; that moves the whole of the Folketing in relation to setting a process in motion that discusses with the sector and makes sure that there is a problem and that teachers should not stand alone out there. And I think I've actually succeeded. I know, and it is often in politics that we are discussing something exactly on the basis of that proposal for adoption. But time is moving fast, and soon we have had that dialogue with the sector, and we have set in motion an exciting debate that hopefully moves something, and new initiatives can then be taken. I just don't need this to be such a battleground, because I think the subject is too important for that. And by making a joint proposal for adoption, a proposal for adoption that everyone can be on board, I think we are actually moving more than if it had been something like that with being on different teams, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen said we shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143243	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143244	Sir. Jacob Mark quite rightly said that this was the opportunity to move the Folketing. But the SF chose precisely to move the Folketing with the government in a direction where there are very small initiatives. SF could have had the opportunity to actually take a real move, a solid move, where we had stood up for the teachers who are standing and experiencing the pressure out there. Because if we go first and take care of ourselves to formulate those courses, then it will be legitimate. The unusual thing becomes common: that you actually have educational courses that you can involve and use in your teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143321	But it may also be that we end up there. Well, I think that's the best idea on my own. But then we do not do it after a debate in the Folketing, where there are teams on the one hand and on the other, and where we are being shot in the shoes, which we may not really mean; then we do it after a process where we have been in dialogue with the sector and had a proper debate. It may well be that we end up there, and I have also said so to the Social Democrats: that we may end up there. But I actually believe that the most important thing we can do here is let this sink through the system, that there's a problem here that we have to solve together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143355	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the SF rapporteur. While preparing for the next rapporteur, I can say that this is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143423	Thank you. You can get all sweaty listening to this debate here. That was an irregular remark. The freedom of speech of teachers is, of course, absolutely essential for a teacher, and it is even a teacher who is very, very important and crucial for the individual child and for the learners who are taught. I don't think anyone's doubting that's right. It is the teacher's pedagogical and psychological abilities and experiences that are at stake in many contexts. You can use a picture of the solid and experienced teacher surrounded by a kind of patina of calm and experience and security in the eyes of the students and in their experience and hopefully also in the eyes of the parents. It is important that the teacher, together with parents, creates the security of the students needed for a good education. In my opinion, the teacher must be able to take up matters that characterise society and which are events that make a real impression on people and create new images, if I may say so, new insights in our society about what looks like and what happens. The Mohammed crisis is a fantastic example of this. After all, it is not just a French matter or a Danish matter; it is a world issue and it requires both critical thinking and freedom of expression and is one of the most controversial issues that we have had in school for a number of years. That's because it separates the waters very clearly. There are those who are strongly opposed and there are those who can see that this gives us experience that we need to relate to. So it is part of the education that students acquire on the way to becoming citizens and citizens, where they can decide on events in society and in public and can distinguish between good and evil. They must be able to relate to what is happening in society and they must be able to take a position. I have been sitting here in the debate thinking that one could also suggest to the Minister quite quietly and without making great palaves out of it to gather a number of thoughtful, experienced teachers and let them answer to, I had almost said the task, what really needs to be done before one can teach in a safe and good way on controversial issues. And there you can find many different kinds of topics, it doesn't just have to be the Muhammad crisis. It's a bit too bad that we don't use the experiences that teachers who have been teaching most of their lives have gathered, and it's not a cannon, I mean I'm very much against guns, but it's sources of inspiration that you can get smart of. I also think it is excellent that we have been promised that the education sector will be convened. Perhaps this should be done once a year. It may be that you do it in advance, I'm not completely up-to-date at these kinds of meetings. But at least it is a circle that is very central to how we can keep track of what is happening in the education sector, including in primary school, and there is no doubt that we need to know more about how to teach and that we get inspiration and experience on how to teach controversial issues and what it takes to succeed. I get such a black picture of what happens in primary school when I hear some of the debate here, and I am actually a little surprised that it looks so bad, which is why I also want to propose, and so I do that the Education Committee with the relevant rapporteurs should meet with KL, i.e. Thomas Gyldal Petersen and his people in the Committee on Children's and Education in KL, to get their impression of what the school world looks like today. If it looks like I've heard it up here from the platform, I'm actually very surprised, because it's not the school I'm seeing, and it's not because I'm not getting around the country. Yes, I haven't done that for the past year, but until then I've been around a lot of schools across the country and have been discussing the new school reform and many other things and got the impression of how it's progressing at school. In my view, it is developing more positively than has been thought in the past, but then came corona, and then I do not know what has really happened in that year. But with this as a background, I would just like to recommend that we take it a little calmly, that we try to put together the knowledge that actually exists, the experiences that exist, in different forums, and that we take time for it. Now we must soon get some sort of break in the Corona initiatives where we can have room for that sort of thing. In any case, I think that we should give this a strong priority, also in order to have a common understanding of how the sector looks when you talk broadly with people who have to deal with it. With these well-intentioned words, I shall end my speech here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143929	Thank you. There is a desire for short comments. First, it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304143932	Thank you. I do not think I have a black view of what is happening in primary school or our education sector as a whole. I'm sure my vision is as nuanced as Mrs. Marianne Jelveds is. It also includes a dialogue with some of them, as the study I referred to from folkskolen.dk also reflects; there is a degree of self-censorship, a degree of self-censorship, that one does so in order not to offend it can be a conscious choice, it can also be because one does not want to enter into a dialogue where one just addresses controversial issues. But it also reflects, i.e. folkskole.dk's study, that 21%. by the teachers simply did so because they felt threatened with risk of life and body. It's no use. That is why I would just like to ask Mrs Jelved whether this is not also the reason why the Radical Left sees a need, as if we are doing something to lift responsibility from the shoulders of teachers to make material available that allows people to teach controversial subjects.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144056	So, I have listened a great deal to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby's speech, including from the platform, and I am a little surprised that we are now going to conduct with the teachers. I know that it is in the best sense and that it is to help them over a hardle or to get definite education that we think is relevant in primary school. But if we believe that there are issues that need to be, etc. I haven't followed that study with 21 percent. of teachers who feel bad, but that's the kind of thing the Teachers' Association should take care of. And it makes such an impression on me, so I'm going to make a little meeting with the Teachers Association and hear what it is and what we do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144202	Thank you. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144203	So, as I said in both my rapporteur's speech and also in the answers, we are completely vigilant about the freedom of method for teachers; that is not part of the discussion. We have a cannon list today... a history cannon list. I know that the Radical Left is against that canon list, but it is a reference framework for what historical events are essential. It was created back in 2006, when one did not have the same perspective on the scope of the Mohammed crisis on recent Danish history. And that is why we point out that it would be natural to enroll it as part of what has meant the most contemporary in Denmark. It's not about kidnapping the freedom of method, it's about updating the history cannon that exists today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144249	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144250	I am fully aware of that, but for me, a cannon is not a good thing either. I think a teacher's guide is fine. It can be picked out, depending on what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, I think that's enough, and you don't need a cannon for that. The cannon is somehow too narrow when it comes to the play. There are also voices now that it has to be twice as large as it is today, in order to accommodate some more women, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144326	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144327	I just want to specify something. I don't think it was 21 percent. of the teachers who weren't feeling well. That was 21%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So it wasn't about just having some well-being challenge. That's what it's called in primary school. It's not called trouble, it's called challenges. Well, joke aside. I just wanted to hear about something from Mrs. Marianne Jelved. The rapporteur stands here and says that the rest of us have a black vision. No, we're realists. We have very open eyes. And, of course, it would also suit the Radical Left to finally get on the ground in this area and see what major problems Denmark is facing right now. Freedom of speech is under massive pressure, and so is it in the Danish primary school. So I would just like to hear the radical rapporteur what the Radical Left really intends to do about the problems that the Radical Left rapporteur here is saying the rapporteur had no idea at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144428-2	But I would like to repeat that I would like to meet with some of the people who are in contact with primary school across the country and rich. We have been shut down for a year, if we may say so, and have not really had any contact with those with whom we usually have contact; those with whom I usually have contact. I'll try to make that right now, because now I want an update. But the picture I had of primary school a year ago was not that freedom of expression is totally denied. I'll tell you what. That is not my experience, and that is not what I am presented with when I have been country and rich around in various schools. However, I would like to read the studies referred to. I do not, of course, reject it when it is said in this Chamber that they exist. Therefore, I would like to meet with the people who have their finger on the pulse in a different way than I have today after sitting in here, locked in, if you may say, in quotation marks for a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144522	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144524	Several studies have been carried out in this area, and I am just a little surprised that a rapporteur for education does not know. Well, now I have a study that is at Folkeskolen.dk. And they then refer to a survey that Information has made among 379 teachers in social sciences and history about their use of Muhammad drawings in teaching. And one of the questions was: Would you be concerned about your own safety if you were to show in the future drawings of the Prophet Muhammad in teaching? And only 25%. Of these teachers, they said they weren't worried at all, 33 percent. replied that they were less concerned, 26%. replied that they were to some extent concerned and 8 per cent. replied that they were concerned to a high or very high degree. What is the rapporteur's position on this? And why has the rapporteur not got to grips with the problems in primary and in Denmark in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144611	Well, doesn't that study go on how the teachers think they'd feel? Or is it because they have the actual experience?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144622	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144623	Thanks for the speech. After all, we are also a party in favour of the teachers having a wide range of methods. That is why, while Merete Riisager was Minister, we fought to get rid of the 3 000 binding targets. But there must also be limits, and that is what I would ask the rapporteur to address. If you imagined a course about Denmark in the 1940s that skipped the occupation and that was Denmark in the 1940s, wouldn't that be a very strange way of teaching about Denmark in the 1940s? I believe that what we have heard from President Claus Hjortdal of the Association of School Leaders is almost equivalent to wanting to teach in the 1940s without teaching the occupation. In Mrs Marianne Jelved's opinion, can you really do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144723	I have not argued that we should skip the Mohammed crisis at all. On the contrary, I have said that we need to find a way to tackle the controversial issues which can be difficult, and that is where we should try to pull in some of the very experienced teachers and get them to take part in that discussion; how do we do that? I don't think you can skip the Muhammad crisis. I would not dream of doing so, just as I would not dream of skipping the occupation, so it is an insinuation that is almost cross-border.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144756	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144757	But that is really what has been proposed by the School Leader Association. And that is why we have to move on in some way, because otherwise Mrs Marianne Jelved will just have to accept a fait accompli. You can stand on Parliament's platform and say that this is too bad, but at the end of the day there will be no training in the Muhammad crisis, because that is the signal that the School Leader Association sends out to all the primary schools in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144830	That is also why this debate has led me to say: now I have to write into the calendar who I shall meet with of all the people who are in contact with the primary school and with whom I have not been in contact for a year. That's why I'd like to talk to the principals. They are also represented in the committees we are talking about. I think it is reprehensible to say that there are issues such as the Mohammed crisis that cannot be taught.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144854	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304144856	I am a little left with the very great concern whether radicals really see this as the big problem, it really is when there are teachers who do not dare to teach certain fields of Danish contemporary history. It will be quite strange to me when you start discussing the freedom of method and interfere with it, and when it is that the radical rapporteur says that you can then just go to a meeting with some in the sector and talk about it. After all, it does not help the teachers who are right now standing in the classrooms and experience that they are being pressured, that they do not have the backlash from us in here that is necessary. That is what radicals were able to show today. After all, there is no formal education programme on the Mohammed crisis. I should just like to ask whether Mrs Marianne Jelved does not think that the longer the time that goes by the Muhammad crisis was back in the 00s in 2005 the more difficult it will be to be able to give an insight into what actually happened during the Muhammad crisis before it becomes part of the Danish teaching and you can bring down a learning process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304145021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304145022	I would like to repeat that. I do not see that there should be a hamlet or a parenthesis about the Muhammad crisis. This is totally unacceptable. At least it's settled. I recognise if Mrs Mai Mercado and others have met teachers who dare not teach it. I'd like to know about that. I would like to talk to them about what is the problem and what could help to get over it. I will do that, among other things. to meet with the various actors who form one organisation after another, and the sectoral committee is one of those with whom it has already been decided to meet. We have to find solutions to this, but as the world now looks, it is not my experience that there is no training in the Mohammed crisis. So there will be, but it may not be in all schools, and it is of course unpleasant. But again: I need to know more about this in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304145124	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304145126	It is just very surprising that it comes as such a surprise to the rapporteur that there is that problem and that there are the major challenges out there in the Danish primary school, because it is something that has been taken up in some rounds. Mrs Mette Thiesen points precisely to a number of studies which show how teachers feel very pressured. There was the whole discussion in the autumn in the wake of the killing of Samuel Paty. So that's something you've returned to in several rounds. That's why I just think it would be relevant that instead of you now but I just want to ask: now that Mrs Marianne Jelved has been drinking all the coffee with the sector, will Radicals be willing and open up to making learning courses on the learning portal, which deals with the Muhammad crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304145221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304145222	At any rate, I do not think that it is the Folketing that should make learning courses. It must be some who are competent to do so, and I do not think the Folketing is per. definition, if I may say so. Although some of them are teachers, it is not good enough to do such things. You have to have professional people out there in the world for that, and that's why I'm talking about bringing together some of the professionals with a lot of experience in that area and getting inspiration from them on how to deal with such problems. There is a very big difference between being 25 years old and being a teacher in primary school and then being 50 years old and being a teacher in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304145256	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. And the next one is Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Jakob Silver mound, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304145327	Thank you. Yes, along the way I was offered by friendly colleagues that they would like to cut me for a break; not that I do not need, but I think I will wait until there is professional labour present. Otherwise, I would say that we in the Enhedslist agree that it is important that we safeguard the freedom of expression of teachers and their freedoms. Teachers must, of course, be able to express themselves freely and carry out their teaching on the basis of the objectives and content of the subjects, without fearing any unpleasantness or worse, from pupils, from parents or from others who believe that they will dictate how teachers should teach and what. In a world where students are exposed to a great deal of information, where the flow of information is pouring in, where they are marked by, it has to be said, a number of dubious and lax relationships with the facts. The former President of the United States has talked a lot about fake news. It is clear that there is enormous confusion among many young people and students, and that is why I think it is extremely important that in our educational system we ensure that they acquire a critical thinking which enables them to orient themselves in the flow of information, but also in this context they are able to deal with controversial and complex issues, including political issues and when it comes to religious issues. I think it is very important for us to be keen on how to help students sort information, deal with controversial issues, and when, in order to stay in the US, we have a former American president who still insists that he has not lost the election despite the election results, it is not easy for young people to orient themselves, and that gives teachers a very great obligation to teach students how to deal with information and controversial issues. Critical thinking is essential, what is presented as facts is not always, and it is also important that we provide students with tools to deal with it, including when it comes to political and religious issues. Teachers have a great obligation, and it is therefore important that we support them in solving the problems. We must do what we can to prevent teachers from getting into a situation where they are being pressured to exercise self-censorship. They must be able to teach in a way that the individual teacher can vouch for, even in the case of the Mohammed crisis mentioned here in the question, or in difficult ethical and moral issues, whether they are political or religious, whether they are sensitive or controversial. Having said that, I think it is important that we politically do not try to impose restrictive restrictions on what teachers have to teach and how they do it, and I also think it would be wrong if we imposed specific educational issues and special forms on teachers. It is important that we safeguard the freedom of speech of teachers, it is important that we respect the professional judgements of teachers and give them the freedom to organise their own education within the framework laid down in the primary school law and the legislation which, moreover, provides the framework for our education. It is very important that we are in close dialogue with all the school partners, which is also envisaged in the proposal for adoption that the Enhedslisten has been involved in making, and I think that Mrs Marianne Jelved's idea that we are also seeking further dialogue with KL, with the chairman of the KL Children's and Education Committee, who is also my mayor, Thomas Gyldal Petersen, where we are also discussing it here. Because I think we should listen, and I think that is the most important thing in this debate. We must always listen to what is moving in schools, we must be open to acting on the challenges that are coming, and in this way I do not think we should have any taboos or prejudices in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304145753	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304145758	Well, I'm really starting to see the difference between the analysis of how to have the teachers' back, both when I hear the previous speaker and when I hear Enhedslisten's speech. As far as setting up standardized courses is concerned, no one is saying that it should be one state-approved course; it could also be a handful of different courses, but which made one have something that one felt comfortable standing on. This is also what Mai Mercado has reported that John Rydahl, on behalf of a number of primary school teachers' professional associations, has previously requested. That it should be to kid their freedom of method is something I simply cannot follow, and perhaps that is where I find that, in the end, this is a failure to recognise the problem that is out there. Therefore, I would just like to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether he recognizes the radical Islamism and the dogmatic view that unfortunately there are also teachers in this country who, either by self-imposed censorship or for fear of their safety, do not teach what they would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304145912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304145913	Well, we do recognize that there is a problem. In other words, we have recently been involved in a new political agreement on social control, which is precisely about it, in relation to teachers and educators. We fully acknowledge that. I could hear reference was made to an article from Folkeskole.dk, which mentions that there are a number of teachers who fear teaching in the Muhammad crisis. That's very problematic. Nor have I heard anyone in the Chamber say that this was no problem. Yes, that is a problem, and that is what we must try to address together. And there I do not think that conflict escalation and conflict-recording rhetoric are helping to solve the problem. I believe that dialogue helps to solve the problem. So yes, we recognise that the problem is there, but we obviously have different views on how to resolve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150005	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150007	Yes, we have that in the sense that we recognise the need for us to take responsibility as well and not just decentralise it and make it the responsibility of the individual teacher. In my view, the dialogue I had earlier with the head of the Education Association, Hanne Pontoppidan, was very illustrative. For there is no longer a question of whether it is the big brothers or the fathers who are coming; there is the teacher standing before the fathers and the big brothers and seeing to a large extent that management does not always have their backs. That is where we have a responsibility, and I therefore hope that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur will be able to acknowledge this. And I hope that Enhedslisten will respond to whether Enhedslisten also sees the need for us to take a political part of the leadership responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150048	Well, that's totally unacceptable. We also write in the proposal for adoption here that there should be an update of the teachers' contingency plans. Clearly, we must be absolutely sure that this does not happen. If you work with children and young people I have had the pleasure of doing so myself, then you shouldn't be exposed to parents or anyone who has nothing to do with school, with threatening or violent behavior. I just do not hear any of my colleagues here saying that it is a particularly favourable situation for them to be so. Of course we must take action against this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150128	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150130	The rapporteur succeeded in completely avoiding mentioning by name those people who are responsible for the threats to teachers. Instead, the rapporteur spent time talking about former President Trump, false news and Americans, and I do not know what. So just for the sake of good order, could the rapporteur not tell me and the rest of us in this Chamber who is threatening Danish teachers when they teach the Muhammad crisis or the Mohammed drawings or what looks like? What kind of people are these? Where did they come from? What do they believe in? What is their background, their culture and their religiousness? I would like the rapporteur to tell me that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150225	When I went a little further than the Muhammad crisis, it is because I think that it is a fairly one-sided view of the school's problems and the problems that can be associated with conflict and violence at school, if you think that this is only about the Mohammed crisis. I think that is quite a simplification of the problems. Who's responding to the Muhammad drawings? Of course, it is people who are associated with the religion in question. It's not weird. When pictures of Jens Jørgen Thorsen's Christian figure were shown over many years ago, it was primarily Christians who reacted very strongly to it. It is, of course, one of the areas of tension that is here: some people find it to be an insult to their religion, and we have a very clear demand that we should have freedom of expression in this country. We must be able to discuss anything. On Enhedslisten's initiative, we in the Danish Parliament have repealed the blasphemy clause. There must be room for an entirely open debate in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150333	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150334	Sir. Jacob Mark had no problem answering Mrs Mette Thiesen's question about who is threatening. Mr. Jakob Silver mound apparently. Now I'm gonna ask Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark to listen very carefully, because now I ask the question again: what are their names? What kind of people threaten Danish teachers when they want to teach the Mohammed drawings? They have a name that's a name for them. Will Mr. James Silverhound of the Enhedslisten, please take that word into your mouth?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150411	I do not understand the position expressed here. I do not understand the position of the Danish People's Party on certain religious groups, and I would like to say this again: people who experience that their religion is being insulted and then you have to decide whether you are experiencing it that way. This is true of Muslims, it is true of Christians, and it is true of people from all other denominations. Of course, it must never lead to violence or threats or anything else, but those who feel scorned react.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150447	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150449	Oh, my God. I can hear that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten agrees with me that I have to rely on Claus Hjortdal's statements, which I believe have been called both insanity and many other things. It's about not stepping on your toes for God's sake. Then I would just like to hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur on something, since the rapporteur means it. Are there other things that we should not teach in primary school? Are there other things about which to say it? Should we say that some people also find nakedness extremely unpleasant, so we do not teach it? Anyone feel trampled on their toes about other things? Because then I'd just like to know. I would like to know whether there are other things we need to cut out or whether the rapporteur will at least not just acknowledge that what we have a problem with is Islam where Islam is being tried into our society and, in this case, in schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150549	I should just like to say that I did not say anything about something that was not to be taught, so the rapporteur has heard wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150557	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150558	I understood from the rapporteur earlier that the rapporteur was very concerned that some people felt violated on behalf of their religion. Now Islam is both an ideology and a religion and a lot of things linked together. There is a political ideology and there is some religion that is linked together. I just understood from the rapporteur's speech that it was important for the rapporteur that these Muslims were not offended by the fact that the Muslim drawings were taught, taught freedom of speech and shown Mohammed drawings in teaching. That is just why I was wondering if there were other places where the rapporteur thought we should kneel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150637	What is at the heart of whether we should be concerned or not is whether there are teachers who experience that they are subjected to threats or violence in relation to the teaching of certain subjects. I can't join the Glee Club of those who aren't worried. Well, I'm happy to report as worried. It is therefore deeply problematic that this is happening, and that is also why we are in a proposal for adoption, which addresses precisely what we need to do about the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150705	Thank you. And then there are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The rapporteur of the Enhedslisten is going to prepare for the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304150737	The French schoolteacher Samuel Paty died for freedom of speech. He had his throat cut because he wanted to teach his students something very, very important: that freedom of speech is absolute. If you cannot draw the prophet Muhammad, there is really no freedom of expression. In the Danish primary school, the defence of freedom of expression is far too weak. Unfortunately there is far too much concern, and the chairman of the School Leader Association in Denmark, Claus Hjortdal, wrote in Jyllands-Posten, that Danish school teachers should simply refrain from using satirical drawings of the Prophet Muhammad in teaching. He is not suggesting this with reference to the real danger involved, no, he advises against offending Muslim students. It's just for the cotton. We have been able to read several stories about courageous teachers who refuse to submit to Islam. They insist that freedom of expression in Denmark must trump the wounded feelings of Muslims. The brave teachers go out Hjortdal and completely undermine. With an absurd argument, he fables in an interview in Berlingske that it would be necessary to demonstrate freeness of speech. He is thus shown that he does not understand himself either in liberalism or in primary school. For primary school must be the place where Danish children learn to meet in open debate. This is how we decide our differences in Denmark, not with violence. And not least Muslim students must learn that, because where else would they learn about freedom of expression? If Danish schoolteachers correct in, it will only teach our children that freedom of expression can be graduated, and thus the primary school will help to promote extremism in society. That is why it is important for us to reject the fear of touch that Claus Hjortdal, for example, is showing. Folkeskole must never become tolerant of the intolerant. Freeness is exactly the opposite of unselected tolerance. Freeness is about letting opinions meet in an open and critical debate, and it is precisely the school's job to transform the classroom into the room where such a conversation can take place. But it's obviously something Hjortdal doesn't understand. On the other hand, I would like to express my full support for the courageous teachers who use the drawings, because they are in the first stage of the great cultural struggle of the time, but they must not stand alone. Islam must have no influence, either in our classrooms or in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304151043	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304151102	Thank you for the floor. It is absolutely right, as many have already said, that we must safeguard the freedom of method which has been a hallmark of the Danish primary school for a very long time. But because we have to safeguard the freedom of method, it has never meant that we should be completely indifferent to what is going on in primary school or accept whatever is going on there. That is the framework that has been laid out for the question of teachers' freedom of expression, and what is called the veto of the perpetrator, which it is important that we discuss. It is now well documented that in both primary and upper secondary education, i.e. first and foremost in secondary schools, there may be problems in teaching a number of subjects. That is, for example, the case. issues such as terrorism, Islamism, the Israel-Palestine conflict and the holocaust, but this also applies to sex education; it applies to parts of biology; and it applies to the teaching of films and literature that has an erotic dimension. The threatening atmosphere of which teachers can be heard and which makes it difficult to teach these subjects is therefore something that needs to be addressed from the centre. So I am a little disappointed to hear the government, because I do not think it is enough to leave responsibility to the individual teacher or school. I do not think it is enough to have alarm buttons on schools and emergency plans and threaten with police after the threats have fallen. It's like having fire-fighting equipment, but not having any fire-proofing. Of course, you have to have both. Of course, it is good that you have fire-fighting equipment, but it is also a little late to get started. The defence of teachers' freedom of expression and the defence of the violent veto must be an advanced defence. It must be a defence that those who want to attack freedom of expression bump into far, far away from the individual school, so that the individual teacher does not have to bear the responsibility. Those who veto the use of freedom of expression by teachers and other students must meet a defence that is already beginning to intimidate perpetrators who are evil in their minds long before they consider starting to threaten others. But we also need to be more vigilant against self-censorship. We have heard of several different statistics on the self-censorship that exists and they are important to remember. This is where the dilemma comes from, and I also touched on this in my question to Mrs Marianne Jelved and it has been decided to teach Denmark's history after the year 2000, there is no way around teaching the Mohammed drawings, because no matter how and how is the course of events so important that one cannot downgrade it in favour of other events. Then it is equivalent to teaching in Denmark in the 1940s without mentioning the occupation that I mentioned. So we have to give the schools and their teachers so much help and so much security that they can, in a cowardly and bold way, teach topics that some consider controversial. But we also have to deal with self-censorship and how it arises. Self-censorship must not prevent schools and teachers from teaching subjects which are impossible to avoid from normal professional considerations. Then the perpetrators have already won, so freedom of speech is limited. We think it is a good thing that we have this debate, but we think that the protection against the violent veto will be too weak in the proposal for adoption put forward by the majority and in the ideas of the government. It must be a more active and advanced defence, and the self-censorship of which there is quite solid evidence also needs to be taken more seriously. However, I welcome the debate and the large minority that we brought together on the most sensible proposal for adoption. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304151546	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and then we have reached the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304151608	Thank you for today's debate. I think there are times when this circle has a prettier form of debate than the one I have witnessed today, and I very much agree with the remarks that fell from the SF when it is important that we stand together on these matters. I find that one is not trying because there are no contradictions; it is there to put extra pressure on some contradictions, where I actually find that it is a nobrain, that it is totally unacceptable to threaten violence, and that it is of course totally unacceptable to carry out violence; it almost gives itself if the first is unacceptable, and we therefore have to go incredibly far to protect freedom of expression and teachers. There are then some who are trying to make it appear in this way that some in here have a monopoly on thinking, and then some others do not think so. I think that is such a strange contrast. I just remembered that the Left was not involved in the police settlement, and one of the things I really intended to say was that we had been united on one of the elements that I think is extremely important, and it is absolutely true what Mr. Henrik Dahl says it's fire extinguishing. I mean, the police are fire-fighting, and therefore it must never be left alone, and I had hoped so that I could say that a joint Parliament had been united on the police settlement, but I had forgotten that the Left was not there. But an almost unified Parliament was united about the police settlement. One of the things that lies in what I am extremely pleased about here is that more police units are coming out, which means that the police are simply getting closer and that additional funds are being put in for SSP cooperation, which is actually one of the preventive measures and which is precisely not fire-fighting. After all, the SSP, which is a cooperation between the social authorities, the police and the schools, has been set in the world too early to spot when there are young people who are showing worrying behaviour. It is also part of the police conciliation, and that means that it is best to be able to catch in preventive work that there are some student groups here that go all the way beyond the edge of their behavior. Moreover, in the case of police conciliation, we have doubled the penalties for threats to restrict the freedom of expression of others. I think that is a huge victory for freedom of expression. I mean, it's become an autonomous aggravating circumstance. We have gone in and doubled the penalties, even if they are digital threats, which there are also teachers who have experienced. Once they have expressed themselves in this debate, they have been given concrete digital threats. It is just to say that I know that some of it is fire-fighting and that it is only after that that a penalty is imposed, but I believe that as a society we are sending an extremely clear signal that we simply do not accept it. There should be no threats, and this is an aggravating circumstance when it is a threat to try to keep someone quiet and not be able to use his freedom of expression. We have had a consultation. I know some people make it sound like I said nothing had happened since the last time. I just didn't understand the compulsive image Conservatives were trying to set up. That's all I thought. I actually experience that we share things, but that is what I commented on. One of the things that has happened since the last, and that is what several people have been asking for, is that there has been a process on emu.dk about how to deal with difficult subjects in connection with the teaching, and that is what emu.dk is. In the old days it was a place where there was also all sorts of educational courses, but what emu.dk is now is more professional practice and recommendations in relation to it. It is just to say that initiatives have been taken both in relation to the parts around the SSP, in relation to penalties, in relation to emu.dk and the handling of difficult processes, and I still think that a lot remains to be done. The most important of it is then again following on from this with what is preventive and what is healing. I mean it when I say that one of the most important tools we have in this context in the context of teaching is the distribution of pupils. If we create schools which have long since been abandoned by the middle class and, moreover, residential areas which have long since been abandoned by the middle class, and then schools where there is really an ethnic sub-class, then there is a relatively easy background for radical Islamists, for example, to get hold of a way that is not desirable, and there can be both an extreme degree of social control, but also some of the trends that we see even more in countries other than here, and we simply have to get in there before. We simply need schools where such parallel societies do not arise. That is why it is very close to my heart, and the government is very keen to distribute the pupils across our education sector, and that is why we were in the agreement on parallel societies in order to distribute the children already in the day institutions, so that we get to know each other crosswise and so that there is no parallel society of that nature. Then I mentioned some other things in my opening speech, among others. The Left's proposal to look at the alarm and emergency plans. I think that would be a really good idea. That is why I would just like to finish by saying that I would like all of us who are here, who all put freedom of expression and democracy as the perhaps strongest common value we have, to show it in our way of debating.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152159	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152203	Thank you. I think what we are truly witnessing today is a shift in the position of the Socialists. I just have to say that in the past we agreed that, for example, boys with an immigrant background should behave properly, that it was unacceptable to threaten teachers, that it was unacceptable for older brothers or parents to threaten teachers. I should just like to ask why the Socialists are setting up such a marked shift that we are not going to do anything at all that actually means a big difference out there. After all, the initiatives that are being put forward only ripple on the surface, because the problem is not really being tackled. So why the change of strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152250	I just don't understand that characteristic. And this time the rapporteur has the opportunity to return because there is more than one brief comment. I just don't understand. I think I've just been putting up some really good things here that Conservatives are in, by the way. I am a little surprised that Conservatives are involved, for example. In the police settlement, if you think these things are ripples. I am also surprised by the fact that a party which has held the power of government for most of the last 20 years believes that these are ripples. I think it is a divisive rhetoric, because the concrete initiatives behind it are, in fact, things we have done together. So I do not understand, but perhaps the rapporteur can explain that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152330	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152331	I just think there is a very big difference between the Minister today, and so when the Minister was rapporteur just a few years ago, when we negotiated an agreement, for example, that children should be in day care, because then it was just not enough that it was only in the day care institution that they had to pay themselves, because diapers would also have to pay, and the fruit regime could not be avoided either, because there was just a need for hard action and there should be no discrimination. I just wonder today that the very hard rhetoric that was then has been replaced by something that is much softer, where you do not really come in and deal with the problem that we see in the Danish primary schools, and that is why I am asking about it because it has to be a strategy change.What is the reason why you now have a completely different approach to immigrant boys, who threaten and intimidate teachers in the Danish primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152423	It is only now that I realise that what the rapporteur thinks is that it was hard before, but now it is soft. I simply think that is what confuses me, because I was simply in doubt as to whether the rapporteur meant it the other way round. I just don't recognize it. It is just to say that I think it is an enormously good agreement that we have made on parallel societies with each other, and I am extremely pleased that we, among others, are. has doubled the penalties for threats related to freedom of expression. In the way I have been politically brought up, it is actually seen to be relatively strict when you double penalties, and that is why I am simply confused by the analysis of the position of the Conservatives in the Social Democratic Party. I just get confused about it. I have never seen that picture before in relation to social democracy's policy on foreigners, and I have never been blamed for having to be soft in terms of integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152518	Thank you, Minister. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152520	Thank you. It can happen to even the best of me including that you think there is something so important to say that you find it difficult to keep to time. But I would really like to ask the Minister something. For now the Minister is saying this: this debate has been marked by something almost similar to a lack of freedom of expression, and it has been a divisive debate, says the Minister. In other words, it is precisely freedom of expression that everyone is allowed to say exactly what they think. So I don't quite understand what the minister wants to do with it. But I would like to ask the Minister about this, for which the Minister often makes himself the banner leader, precisely this pupil distribution. Because if the Minister really believes that, as we see, there are problems with teachers in areas where there are many pupils with a Muslim background not being able to teach the Mohammed drawings, why does the Minister think that it is a very good idea to spread the pupils into several schools, in other words to spread the problems into several schools? It doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152625	It is because I see it as such that a strong majority culture means that what does not get wind in the sails in a way that makes it legitimate to behave in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152633	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152634	We have discussed this several times before. There is really no evidence that it will solve the problems that exist. The Minister has replied to this by several rounds because I have asked for it, but thank you for the answer anyway. I would like to follow up on something, because now there are several rapporteurs who have said this on controversial issues. But controversial for whom? Who is it that we have problems with specifically?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152703	Well, I think that has been said many times from up here, by myself too in today's debate, namely that radical Islamism wins the sails particularly in parallel societies in Denmark. And that is precisely why I have no desire to concentrate large groups of immigrants in certain areas which the middle class has long since left and thus are not a majority culture. I believe that this is a completely wrong development, and I believe that it gives the best breeding ground you can almost get for radical Islamism, and I do not want it, and we do not want it on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152735	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152737	Thank you. In fact, I also believe that it is a tool that is important to have schools across the country, where people meet across, and where large groups of pupils do not gather, who have got something in their luggage from home, which leads to dogmatic religious views. So I agree with the need for such a student-sharing reform, and that is why my errand now is to change a misunderstanding in the press, where it is said that the Minister has postponed the objective of a student-sharing reform so that we cannot be ready for the school year 2022. Well, we must be able to do so slowly, after all, we are not. So can we not agree on the common ambition that, not for the school year that comes here, but for the next school year, we must finish?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152828	Well, I have also followed that in the press, and I just want to say that I still have an ambition to negotiate the distribution of pupils in youth education before the summer break. And then I actually have an intention about that, and I haven't even introduced it to you yet, but we can then take that as a news from here on the platform that there is some of the things we need to put into effect as soon as possible, and that is probably also if I can get you along with it and get 90 mandates behind it before the school year 2022; so we don't get there at all. Because there are some things that have been delayed by corona, but there are also some things that can be done temporarily, that is, some things that we can get to apply here and now. And, of course, there are some things that take time; the coding of the large student distribution model takes some time. So if we can get all the basic mechanics in place and from when, I simply don't dare say, because it depends on when the corona gets off its roof. But we know that the coding takes an extremely long time. But it is just to say, in relation to what has been in the press, that there is actually nothing new in that it has just been moved into the legislative programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152932	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304152933	I'm really glad about that, because it's something that's caused frustration out there... should you wait again? So it is good that initiatives are also being taken, which are like immediate initiatives. But I also think that we must continue to talk about the goal so that we should be done in the school year 2022 and then I agree that there is corona, and I agree that there are all sorts of advanced codings. But let's say that's the starting point. And thank you for clearing that misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153007	Yeah, and when I'm a little hesitant about just saying that it's gonna be all from 2022, it's because we've had corona for a year now, and that means that the thing about when it's gonna work from, I don't know. But I know that the student distribution is the first thing we're gonna do as soon as the corona releases its roof. And then we'll have to look at it. Well, I'd pre-discount your support for what I'd like to do by saying: Well, then we'll finish the day after tomorrow. Yes, but I also need to find 90 mandates, and there are other methods that need to be put in place. So it's just to say that the corona has been so unpredictable that I don't dare say when we're out of it at a level that allows us to get started again. But I would very much like us to have an agreement before the summer, so I hope we can achieve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153047	Thank you. Then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153049	All due respect for the exciting debate in which I am happy to take part, but that is not what this question debate is about. For it is basically about how radical Islamism and other dogmatic human perceptions both make our teachers impose self-censorship, but that unfortunately there are also very many of those who feel threatened and who cannot do the teaching they want. I think that is essentially what we are spending our time on, including some of what the Minister said earlier when I asked about it at the conciliation meeting, where the minister explained that there is no learning process about the Muhammad crisis at emu.dk, saying that there are no learning courses either on World War I and Denmark's entry into the EC and some other things. I am not aware of the fact that there are teachers in Denmark who have been threatened because they taught in Maastricht or Denmark's accession to the EC or other subjects, and so I would just like to ask the Minister today in view of the fact that, as I mentioned earlier, there are two learning courses on emu.dk: why would the Minister not be involved in the learning process of the Muhammad crisis, which is so controversial and landmark for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153203-2	It may well be, it is because I do not actually remember which year emu.dk was changed, and therefore I have some doubts whether it was before or after Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby was minister. But it is true that in the old days emu.dk was a place where you could go in and take down specific courses. That is no longer the case, and that is why I am using those examples. There are a lot of things that are not courses on, because that is not at all the intention of emu.dk. The intention of emu.dk is to come up with some courses, where it is the subject of academics and pedagogics that are at the centre, and therefore there is also a suggestion of material on how to handle teaching controversial topics. So I think it's a little a misunderstanding of what it is that emu.dk is today, because at some point it was different that is the reason for it. So I would now like to say that there is an incredible amount of educational material about the Mohammed crisis I listed them in connection with the fact that I was on the platform earlier in this debate today and that there is therefore no real need for one to go into it. Yes, you can, but there is no need for a political initiative, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153313	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153314	I'm gonna try it again. Now I have also logged in to emu.dk's Danish learning portal, so that we agree that we are not talking about the old version, but about the new version. When you go under the subject history and you go under some of the elements that form part of the subject history, you can see that there are two learning courses. There is a learning process that deals with human rights in a global perspective, and there is another learning process that deals with my immediate area, which is created in collaboration with the Foundation for Entrepreneurship. So if we otherwise agree that the emu'en Denmark's learning portal is here and that there is progress on it, I just ask again: Why will the minister not be involved in the learning process about the Muhammad crisis, which could help support the teachers who feel the need to be supported in their teaching?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153359	It is actually exactly the same question that is being asked, and therefore the answer will also be the same, namely that the courses that take place at emu.dk are about academic and pedagogics, which means that it is not one where there are a lot of subjects, and then you can go in there and find the subjects, and then you can teach them. It's about presenting different ways educational to go to teaching inside emu.dk, and it's true that in the old days it was so that there were all subjects, all good things from the sea you could find in there, but it's not anymore. I would say that it is of course important to me that there is educational material in the Mohammed crisis, so if there were no educational material in the Mohammed crisis, it would be worth considering, but it does in fact also do extremely much. What emu.dk then has is precisely professionally to relate to how teachers can handle difficult subjects in teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153455	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Minister, so thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. Then the rapporteur for the questioners has asked for the floor to be closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153525	It is, of course, normal tone and tact that you go up and say thank you for a good debate. It has also been a good debate, although it has also been a little strange that there were virtually no questions for the bourgeois politicians, because the debate went the other way. But in this way, a debate can also be good. I can then take note of the fact that there are several rapporteurs and parties who have said that it could be extremely important to hear what the sector thinks and that you would very much like to hear their views on how to deal with the problems and ensure freedom of speech for teachers and that they would like to be spoken. This is, of course, a good idea, and that is why I would just like to give an indication that we in the committee will at least propose that we have a hearing, a joint public hearing, in order to get good offers on the table on how to ensure the freedom of speech of teachers as much as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153624	That did not give rise to brief comments, so thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 9 March 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153649	The debate is open. The first rapporteur to be put on the floor is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Thomas Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153730	Thank you, President. If I am a little out of breath, it is because I have been speeding towards the Chamber. The purpose of the bill is to repeal the revision clause requiring the Minister of Transport to submit a proposal for revision of the law by 2021 at the latest. The revision clause was introduced when the Tempo 100 system for trailers was adopted. The wish was that road safety data which would be available after a period of approx. 4 years, had to be examined and that, in this context, the law had to be evaluated in order to assess the extent to which road safety had been affected by the Tempo 100 scheme. The evaluation shows that the technical requirements required to obtain Tempo 100 approval have outweighed the increased risk of accidents which could immediately result from the increase in speed. The evaluation has therefore not given rise to any revision of the scheme and the revision clause is therefore proposed to be repealed so that no revision of the law is required. I believe that the proposed lifting of the revision clause is sensible, as there seems to be no evidence of any change in the Tempo 100 system for trailers in terms of road safety. And I should like to welcome the radical rapporteur and say that the Radicals also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153855	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304153920	Thank you for that, President. I do not know whether what the rapporteur said is an expression of the fact that the Social Democratic Party is losing its breath. This bill is about the Tempo 100 scheme, and the Tempo 100 scheme is a brilliant invention that we in the Left were happy to be the banner leader for back in 2016. It is, of course, a question of allowing specially approved caravans and trailers to drive 100 km/h. on the motorways. And when we were so concerned about it, it is because we in the Left have a vision called speed with sense; that is, we must have a good flow of traffic; we must have good momentum on the roads while at the same time safeguarding safety. And that's exactly what we've achieved with the Tempo 100 scheme, where we're getting this better flow of traffic on the motorways with fewer overtakes and so on. Fortunately, the evaluation that has been carried out has shown that road safety has not been weakened, rather, on the contrary. So it's a pure win-win where we've both got more mobility and better security. That is why, of course, it is entirely relevant that with this bill we cancel the revision clause that was in the 2016 legislative proposal and then we can welcome the fact that we have got the Tempo 100 scheme and that it works out there in practice. It is always nice when what we adopt in here also works out in the real world. The left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154054	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. If the rapporteur of the Left would like to prepare the platform with an alcohol cloth for the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who is ready, then that is fine. Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154114	It's a simple bill, so the thing about phoning off the platform is what takes the longest time during this reading. In the Danish People's Party, we also support this bill. We also supported it when these Tempo 100 approvals were introduced in 2016. Although we supported it at the time, it was reasonable to have an evaluation included in it to find out if it had any consequences for road safety. Happily, it has been shown that it has not, and therefore it makes good sense to remove this revision provision. So the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154145	Thank you. Nor is there any brief comment to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154205	Thank you. This proposal to repeal the revision clause in relation to the Tempo 100 scheme is actually a little tricky in the SF. We can of course see, when we look at the data we received last summer, that, overall, there is no indication that there is a higher accident rate here. We recognize that, but when we look at these trailers, for example. caravans, with this weight, it can actually go hugely wrong when things go wrong. Actually, things go more wrong than they do when you're in a regular car. Overall, we support the idea that if you can see that there is no higher accident rate, there is no reason to regulate it in such a way that you set the speed limit again. However, we are just appealing to keep a very close eye on this, because there is no need to make road safety worse, even when we are looking at individual drivers. And the risk to the individual driver of a caravan, if it goes wrong, is greatly increased compared to the risk to the driver of a regular passenger car. We're a little worried about that. We are appealing very much to continue to keep an eye on this and to see how it develops so that we can tackle it again if there is a problem. We really want answers to some technical questions when we get to committee, because we do not want to support anything that overall reduces road safety. I noted that the citizens in their road safety action up to the last infrastructure plan, which did not come into being, set aside some fine money to increase road safety. We must also do so in the near future when it comes to negotiating infrastructure, but it is of no use if we do not at the same time have the regulatory framework to ensure that road safety is in order, including at the level of the individual driver. I just think that should be taken into account when dealing with this issue and talking about road safety in the future, including in the infrastructure negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154454	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154457	Thanks for the speech. I would actually just like to ask whether the SF rapporteur recognises that sometimes good road safety can also be that you have to drive faster, understood in the sense that if there is a vehicle running very slowly compared to what the others are doing, it can actually create an uncertainty in traffic. And that was the point of the 2016 proposal, that is, that people driving a caravan were allowed to follow traffic better. This actually gives you a better road safety than you want, if you drive really slow and someone keeps coming and has to overtake or whatever it may be. So it is not necessarily always the case that speed has to be lower in order to increase road safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154534-2	I'm gonna get it, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær right: Speaks Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær for example. take the trucks and also speed them up to 100 km/h? Because with that logic you can take all the vehicles that we have and which today have to drive more slowly and say: 'Well, they are also a danger, provided that someone drives behind, who can't figure out how to keep a proper distance and pull in and pull out when they have to.' Well, I find that logic hard to see. Yes, of course, driving too slowly with the other drivers can endanger road safety. However, we have seen the speed limits we have today for a reason, and when we are dealing with large heavy vehicles, it is appropriate that they have a little more control over the vehicle, which is therefore better if you drive more slowly. I am not saying that this is necessarily what we have to do with the campers, because the figures are saying what they are doing, but I am just saying that I do not hope that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær actually believes that we should speed up in general, because it is safer that we all drive at the same speed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154640	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154641	So, I did not mention trucks or anything at all; it was more the principle point of view that is to say whether you really recognise that it is not always just about driving slowly, as slowly as possible, but that this was precisely about saying that under certain conditions you have to have some decent tyres, and there is a maximum limit to how much weight must be • it can actually lead to increased road safety if you drive 100 km/h. on a motorway, because then you also follow traffic more. Well, it doesn't give this inappropriate traffic pattern where you lie and you have to overtake each other all the time and where there can actually be these danger signals. So it was really just the principle of it, i.e. whether you actually recognise that it is not always about the lowest possible speed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154716	Well, I actually thought I said that in my answer. Well, of course it can be a problem if you drive too slowly compared to what is appropriate. But that's not why we have these speed limits. We have them, because overall it's most appropriate that large heavy vehicles drive slower; that's what we can see. And that is why I hope not and that is what I mean by my reply to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær suggests that the speed limits should really be raised because it is safer, because that is nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154745	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154748	Thank you. I saw Mrs Valentina Berthelsen's speech in the sense that she supports the draft law, although there was such ambiguity in it. I think that is wise, because it was a bill we introduced because we had a belief that when you have some vehicles to drive on a motorway, it is actually more dangerous that some are driving 80, while others are driving 110/130, than if you have a better flow and everyone drives around 100 km/h. and some a little faster. That was the idea, and that is what has been shown to work in practice. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Valentina Berthelsen whether she does not recognise the evaluation that has been carried out and that shows that it has not had a negative impact on road safety. Then there is the fact that in this debate we are beginning to question the safety of this. Well, is SF comfortable with this, or is SF not safe with security? Because it's kind of like the thing about being pregnant; it's hard to be half pregnant. Either you are, or you aren't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154851	Then I would call Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen as a completely pregnant woman. But yes, of course we recognize the figures that have been presented, but I am just saying that they only shed half the light on the truth. If you're in an accident as a camper, things are going really wrong. It also does if you are a truck driver, but it goes less wrong if you are in an accident in a small Fiat 500 • statistical. I think you should have that in mind when we talk about this. We can see the idea of continuing, now that we cannot see in the figures, that this is a major problem, we can do that, but we are appealing for proper control of it and that we continue to keep an eye on how it develops. Because we need to be able to be flexible enough to change our minds if this becomes too costly for the individual camper, such as you. I'm in a very serious accident. That's what I mean when I'm standing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154952	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304154953	Now we are starting to talk to each other, because I fully agree that when you have some rules, they must of course be enforced, otherwise rules do not make sense. That's the job of the police. For many years we have had the challenge that there are probably little too few resources for the traffic police in Denmark. We can hope that will be better. But otherwise, the disadvantage is that I know the laws of physics and kinetic energy, and this is that if you drive stronger, there is more energy, and worse accidents happen when things go wrong. After all, it is offset by the huge advantage, it is that there is better flow in traffic and hence less risk of accidents. So, is SF safe at Tempo 100, or is SF not safe at Tempo 100?
ParlaMint-DK_20210304155037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304155038	Again, I think we are having a rather strange discussion, because if you follow the logic, as the Danish People's Party also said, we should all drive 130, because it was safer, but it is not. After all, it is not safest for trucks to drive 130 like the rest of us, because then there is better flow, because they weigh what they do. It's the same with caravans. We then see the figures from this summer which indicate that there is nothing to prevent them from continuing to run 100. However, I dispute, like the logic of all of us having to run the same, preferably as the passenger cars must, because it is safer. 'Cause that's bullshit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304155113	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304155136	Thank you. The Council for Safe Transport makes this very clear: there is a link between speed and the severity of accidents occurring on the roads. You drive 90 miles an hour. instead of 80, you double the risk of ending up in a fatal accident. And it doesn't make it any better that the vehicle you're driving at the same time pulls around on, for example, a caravan. So the conclusion is quite clear: the higher the speed, the more dead and the more seriously injured. The draft law we are discussing today must put an end to the revision clause in the law that in practice means that the Tempo 100 system continues as it is. Basically, Enhedslisten does not want speed to be raised on the roads, on the contrary. In terms of climate and, above all, noise, we should work to ensure that speed is lowered and not raised. The revision clause or not, I have to say that unfortunately there is no majority in the Danish Parliament for the Enhedslisten's wish for a lower speed. In this way, it may seem sensible to remove the revision clause. However, I would like the revision clause to be used as an opportunity to discuss road speed in particular in the light of the climate crisis and, fortunately, this increased focus on noise as there is in the Folketing. We know here that increasing speed is the biggest problem. The revision clause could therefore be both an opportunity to slow down the speed of the vehicles specifically covered by the Tempo 100 scheme, but also generally. Against this background, Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304155318	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We have now come to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304155338	Thank you. I have had the honour of giving the speech on behalf of our rapporteur, Mr President. Niels Flemming Hansen, and then you could think that it was because I just had the previous case, but I think it is simply because I am the most enthusiastic camper in the conservative parliament group. And it is with camping every year, and nothing beats a good camping trip. It is, of course, a very small but still important legislative proposal that we are discussing today. It is, after all, a scheme, the Tempo 100 scheme, which allows certain vehicles, camping vehicles, to travel 100 km/h. We have supported this and now, with the evaluation that has been carried out, we have seen that there are no major risks in relation to more accidents, but then it makes sense to remove that revision provision. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304155444	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So the next rapporteur on the floor is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304155509	New citizens support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304155514	That was very short. Thank you. It is just now that the previous rapporteur's despriting is still working. But let's finally get ready for the Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304155535	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law. It can be said that this is one of the legislative proposals on which I would probably not have expected so much debate, since it is a little technical. However, it is also nice that legislative proposals such as this allow us to learn news about our colleagues and their holiday preferences. That's nice. Perhaps I should also just, for the sake of good order, if someone does not know about the Tempo 100 scheme it might be that some people were listening to it, who did not know it, say that it is the case that there are some special requirements that are made for the vehicle in the case you want to have it approved by Tempo 100, and that is also why there is also some increased security. It is required that tyres of the trailer be not more than 6 years old, that the trailer be inspected every 2 years, that there are tighter weight limits, that shock absorbers are required, and not least that stabilisation systems are required. That, of course, is what all together means that when you look at the number of these vehicles and the number of accidents, there are not major challenges. That is what the evaluation has shown. And if anyone asks himself the question of how many Tempo 100-approved vehicles are basically in Denmark, then I can say that it is actually surprisingly few who have used this scheme. The latest inventory from February 2021 shows this with customary accuracy, because of course it is said by the skilled civil servant that an approximate number is calculated, and the approximate number is 10,158. I don't know if it's because there may be 59 or 57, but that's what I'm told. That means that they are quite few. It has to be said that only four accidents have been recorded which have involved this type of vehicle. It is therefore very modest what the problem is. That is why I would like to thank most of the parties for their support for the lifting of the revision clause. However, I would also like to say to the SF rapporteur that yes, we will, of course, continue to follow it on a regular basis, because it is clear that with the few vehicles there are, i.e. the few approved Tempo 100-Equipags that exist out there, it is necessarily the case that there is also, in fact, a relatively small data base. It may therefore be that in the future there will be a need to look at a revision of the rules, for example the technical requirements. But that will be possible within the notice, is the assessment. So thank you for your support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304155828	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210304155841	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 5 March 2021, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
