ParlaMint-DK_20210204100001	The meeting is open. There are today the following reviews: Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 156 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the promotion of energy savings, the law on the promotion of energy savings in buildings and the law on the amendment of the law on electricity supply, the law on the promotion of renewable energy and the law on electricity security and repealing the law on subsidies for the promotion of renewable energy in enterprises' production processes. Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 141 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on equal opportunities for assistance in crisis situations for men and women). Victoria Velasquez (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 142 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the provision of benefits based on the principles of mutual dependence on cash benefits, early retirement and old-age pensions). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 143 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the examination of the winding-up of Danish Minkavl). Peder Hvelplund (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 144 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the donation of surplus covid-19 vaccines to COVAX). Kristian Hegaard (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 145 (Proposal for a resolution on the extension of the minimum limitation period for liability under the Law of Ministers). Hans Andersen (V) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 146 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on initiatives to ensure that the Coronahellets are not hit by a 70% tax span. under the coronapandemia). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210204100130	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Thomas Jensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204100147	Thank you, President. We have all read the horrible stories in the newspapers and seen horrific television reports about unspeakable road users who have fallen victim to the ruthless and often totally fatal driving of crazy drivers on our common roads. They are soft road users on sidewalks and bicycle paths, they are exercise cyclists on the roads, drivers in ordinary family cars, who are crushed under the brutal behaviour of muscle cars. It has to be over. People who do not care about other people's welfare should know that we are prepared from a political point of view to knock down those who do. Their atrocities must be stopped. We shall begin with this through various legislative proposals, which we are discussing in various areas of ministers during these months. The present draft law is then the implementation of a number of the measures set out in the Government's initiative of February 2020, which is called Vanvidsdrift to be stopped. The aim of the draft law is therefore to step up efforts to combat madness. I think we all agree that driving madness is totally unacceptable, and if some people in this way grossly neglect the consideration of others in the traffic and create danger and insecurity, then we must take a hard step. In addition to significant criminal and derogatory sanctions, it is important that vehicles, often large muscle vehicles used for driving madness, can be quickly and effectively removed from the roads. It is stated by the police that in several cases drivers who drive particularly ruthlessly do not own the vehicles in question, for example. are leased or borrowed. This does not allow for the possibility of confiscating vehicles in several cases. At the same time, the police are experiencing problems today in tackling illegal racing and betting. And illegal racing and betting is insecure and can lead to dangerous and serious situations. The draft law extends the right to confiscate vehicles in first cases to cases of particularly ruthless driving and driving at very high speeds. At the same time, it is proposed that confiscation in these cases and in the case of drunk driving with an alcohol level above 2,0 should take place in the clearest possible starting point regardless of ownership. This also means in cases where the driver himself does not own the vehicle used. The draft law also contains guidelines which will significantly sharpen the penalties for driving at very high speeds, illegal racing and racing, driving during the separation period, and whose driver's disqualification is due to driving madness. According to the guidelines of the bill, it will in future cost 20 days of unconditional imprisonment in first-time cases. Finally, the draft law contains rules which would significantly tighten up the time limit for driving rights, which would result from driving at very high speeds, illegal racing and betting or harassment of driving to the detriment of police work. I hope that these, and I admit this, very far-reaching improvements contained in the draft law, together with other initiatives from the government's drive-by drive package, will effectively reduce the extent of madness driving. If that hope is not fulfilled, we should look together at further and more far-reaching measures. Social democracy can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204100508	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204100514	The agreement reached on driving madness was not part of the Liberal Alliance, and it was not because we did not really want to take part in the lifting of sentences. We shall vote in favour of the draft law put forward by the Minister for Justice in this area. We think that these are really sensible penalties for driving madness, because this is a serious problem. The reason we couldn't be in the deal is this. We think it is a problem that if you use different car sharing schemes as a private person, for example. GoMore, and you lend your car to another car, and that is actually good for society, because then four families may only need to have one car together, instead of everyone having their own car. So if you get to lend the car to someone who drives everything, you risk that with this bill the car will not only be seized and returned to the owner, but the car will simply be confiscated and sold. And the owner who has not driven the car loses his car and that is the money he has given for his car. It will tighten the ground for sharing car schemes and all sorts of other things. Why do you go so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204100622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204100624	Well, I freely recognise that we are going a long way, but we are doing so, because it is very far-reaching offences that are taking place in this area. And it is also the case with people who often drive crazy driving that it is people who we know will take advantage of it if we start making exceptions and areas where they can get a vehicle and drive crazy. That is why we need to be consistent and ensure that they cannot bypass the regulation we are making and thus gain access to a vehicle and create insecurity for ordinary people. So, yes, it goes beyond that. At the same time, I would also like to say about car sharing schemes, with which we have discussed a great deal in the various negotiations, that I also hope that in the car sharing industry, some of the instruments will begin to be used to check with whom sharing arrangements are being made and in this way to ensure that stray vessels are kept out of completely reasonable arrangements.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204100724	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204100726	So that was the suggestion made by the Liberal Alliance, namely that if you had taken enough times to drive too fast or just once for crazy driving then you had to put on a list and then renters and sharing car systems etc. could have access to that list and, on the basis of it, say to certain people that they could not be allowed to rent a car with them because they had too often driven too fast or had been driving crazy. But that wasn't good enough. I understand the intention, but the means here will go beyond ordinary people who could never drive madness. I don't understand why you're willing to use such hard drugs against people who are completely innocent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204100805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204100806	Steps are being taken to ensure that if you've been driving crazy, it will be on your criminal record. And if, within the framework of the sharing car systems, they make a scheme to show such a clean criminal record in order to participate in a sharing car system, then we will then have people kept out and all those who want to use a sharing car system in a sensible way have the opportunity to do so without taking any further risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204100832	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And if the rapporteur would be kind enough to prepare for the next rapporteur by taking one of the fine wipes of disinfection and using it, then I will keep an eye on how and how the work is done. Laughter Thank you. Then the rapporteur of the Left has been prepared, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204100900	Thank you for that, President. The car is a huge asset to our society. Tens of thousands of Danish families are completely dependent on their cars, and many families even have to have two cars. But if you use the car irresponsibly and recklessly, it is transformed into a deadly weapon that can kill and mutilate other people. That is exactly what the drivers of madness are guilty of. In the view of the Left, it is totally unacceptable when some people in a fit of madness grossly disregard the consideration of others in the traffic. It must be stopped effectively by taking far more effective action in the future against this madness. Crazy drivers are in my optics potential murderers. And that is exactly what L 127 here is all about: a significant strengthening of action against insanity drivers. In recent years, unfortunately, we have seen an accelerated problem of ruthless and deadly madness driving. The madness is becoming more and more widespread, not least in relation to certain gang environments where a sick code of honour has emerged that you have to drive rotten in cars with many horsepowers. It has put human lives at risk, and it has led to deeply tragic road deaths, which have caused understandable anger and insecurity among citizens. I would like to stress that the driving of madness is not just unwittingly going to happen. These are extreme violations of the law, including driving with alcohol levels above 2,0, driving at speeds above 100 km/h. at the same time as more than 100 per cent exceeding the speed limit, i.e. e.g. 101 km/h. in cities, or driving at a speed of more than 200 km/h. or negligent manslaughter in particularly aggravating circumstances in traffic. This bill means that in future society will seriously let the sledgehammer fall on the drivers of madness. Let me mention some of the important sharpenings: 20 days of unconditional imprisonment as a starting point; confiscation of the vehicle, regardless of ownership, as a starting point; tougher penalties for driving at extremely high speeds, illegal racing and betting, driving during the period of disqualification or harassment of driving that impedes the enforcement of other vehicles by the police. It is well known that a significant part of the madness drive is linked to criminal gangs and their own shady car leasing companies. It is important that we put an effective end to this. At the same time, it is important for the Left that the many serious and proper leasing companies are given tools to protect themselves against the losses that a crazy customer can cause them because the car is being confiscated. Here the private criminal record is extended by infringements of the Road Traffic Code, which has resulted in unconditional prison sentences, i.e. also crazy driving. This tool can be used by the leasing companies to avoid leasing to such persons. The tool can also be used to avoid borrowing or renting out e.g. Vans for doomed crazy drivers. The Left will also encourage the government to promote the constructive proposal of the leasing industry for a licensing scheme for leasing companies. This brings us to an end with the irresponsible and shady parts of the industry. I have noted that a number of consultation responses express scepticism about third party confiscation of cars. And yes, it is a very far-reaching weapon against madness driving. Some would even ask: How can a liberal party support such a move? We can do that because we are determined to put an end to the car of madness. There must be security in a society; in a liberal society, security belongs, including in traffic. However, as the broad political agreement shows, precisely the confiscation and removal of the car is a crucial element in this whole fight, and it will certainly have an enormous preventive and deterrent effect. Once again, I would like to remind you that these are extreme violations of the law, that is to say, something that we do not just come to. We need to use the sledgehammer. However, the bill allows confiscation to be omitted if there is to be disproportionate intervention. This is what the Left will be asking for in the course of the committee procedure, so that we can get rid of what it means in concrete terms. In conclusion, I would like to welcome the fact that the consistent and significant actions of the draft law are based on a very broad political agreement. In doing so, we are sending out from here to society the strongest possible signal that we do not tolerate this madness. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204101403	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204101409	We are as much opposed to driving madness as the rest of the Folketing. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen drives himself in a nice car of the brand Mercedes, which doesn't belong among the cheapest cars in this community; then we haven't said too much. If sir... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is at one point asked by the neighbor's son whose mother and father are driving their own car, about Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen might, in all kindness, lend this son his Mercedes so that the neighbour's son can come to the football game this weekend, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen then thinks it is reasonable for this son, who now young people can sometimes come up with, especially young men when they have just got a driving licence, drive too fast and also drive in a way, so it is crazy driving that it is then Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, who has to pay with the confiscation of his car of more than average value because Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has shown the neighbor's son the kindness to lend him the car so he could come to the football game?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204101517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204101519	Yeah, that's fair. We all have a responsibility, if we borrow our car out, to make an assessment of the person to whom we borrow the car, and if I have the slightest doubt whether the neighbour's son would drive rotten, I would not lend the car to him at all. By the way, I would always be careful about that. So if things go wrong, I've taken a risk, and then I'm gonna have to bear this loss.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204101540	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204101542	I'm afraid that in the countryside, where both Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen and I originally come from, there are a lot of young men who, on an empty road, can drive very fast because they don't think properly. This means that it is also ordinary young men who can do so, and it is also the ordinary sons of their neighbors who can do so, and they must be punished for that. But, sir... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is being punished? I'd like to know if Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, if there is a case in the future where a human being, for example. in West Jutland, where Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has been elected, has his expensive car taken, because he has kindly lent it to the neighbour's son, so will guarantee that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen will not go out and say that it is indeed too wrong that this was not the purpose of the law and that he will do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204101629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204101631	Yes, I will guarantee that, because it is clear to everyone here what the consequences are. I think that this bill will have the effect of thinking very well about it, even before lending your car in the future, and so do you. We need to stop this madness, and it's our first priority. That is why we stand by the political agreement reached by a broad circle of parties here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204101650	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. I hope the neighbor's son himself acquires a car and learns to drive properly. Thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204101713	It should be safe to travel in traffic, and we must say that it is not when you can encounter crazy drivers who either drive with a per thousand of over 2.0 and have drank too much or drive 200 km/h. There have been cases where people have been horribly killed. I think it is quite right that we should say 'no' to it and take a hard hit on it. Because it's not okay to risk other people's lives in traffic. One could almost say that if, after all, it was just their own life that was at stake, then they had to do so, but it isn't. It is, of course, everyone else that is being put at risk, and that is something we must, of course, strike down hard on. Because it is totally unacceptable to cross all borders by driving like a lunatic on the road. So we support the fact that it is being severely reduced, as there are others. This draft law, which provides for some initiatives but not necessarily all initiatives, is proposed. I could understand from the Socialist rapporteur that there will be several things later, and a political agreement has also been reached which contains initiatives. We think it is quite natural that we should, among other things. Looking at what punishment you get, if you drive crazy driving, i.e. driving at high speed or with a high blood pressure, or whatever it may be. The penalty for this is put in this bill to be 20 days in jail and a disqualification of the driving licence for at least 3 years. It is the same in the case of harassment driving, which prevents the work of the police. It seems quite inconceivable that this could happen, because it is crazy, but unfortunately there are examples of it, typically in connection with gang criminals, where some try to run away, while others may then lie and run harassing to avoid the police being able to do their job. There, too, 20 days in prison and a driver's license are being destroyed as a starting point. We both think that is quite reasonable. Then there is another element of the draft law which, I must admit, is more controversial, and that is also something that can be seen from the consultation answers. This is what you can do with third-party confiscation. You know, you can confiscate a crazy driver's car. That is a good thing today, but it is now the case that you can confiscate the car, even if it is not the driver of the car who owns the car. It can typically be if you've leased a car or something. Unfortunately, we have seen some problems with typical gang members leasing a car, because they have found out that it will not be confiscated, or you can make loan arrangements with each other, and then you avoid the car being taken from you. It is therefore not appropriate for them to be able to continue driving madness in this way, and that is why we are taking these quite tough measures, in which we can confiscate the car in the first instance if the driver of the car has been particularly ruthless, that is to say, driving at high speed or with a high blood pressure and all these things which have already been mentioned several times in the legislative process. So we agree that we need to go hard on these cases. I can also mention that there are some exceptions in the legislative proposal, but there are also some places where you can imagine that you are going into a grey area, and we could perhaps look at the committee's work to see that there is some sort of assessment of it. Because it is very important that we hit the drivers of madness, but there may also be some cases of grey areas in which I think there might be a need for a concrete assessment. One could imagine that it was the neighbor's son who drove on the freeway at 8:00 a.m. 2:00 a.m. where there is no traffic. There is road work but the road work is not there in the middle of the night and therefore the speed limit may suddenly be 50 km/h. and there may be a moment's notice. It is, of course, the individual's responsibility to pay attention, but it is perhaps a little disproportionately that the car is then seized, because the driver has not been a danger to anyone. So perhaps there might be a need for a kind of cat door, where, after all, a concrete assessment was made of whether it was now in line with what has been done. In other words, you drive in the middle of the night, where there are no road users or no road work, and then you may be inattentive and do not slow down fast enough. It is clear that you have to be punished for it, that you have to be fined for it, and it may also be that you lose a monthly salary or two, as is according to some of the rules that are currently in place. But let us take a look at the committee's work to see if there could be any cases where we might have some sort of derogation. 'Cause it's the real crazy drivers, gangs and others we're gonna be after, and maybe not the neighbor's son who drives in the middle of the night and may not be fast enough to slow down. However, we are fully in favour of tough action against drivers of madness and especially in relation to these grotesque examples we have seen in the media and elsewhere where people have been killed. We need to stop this, so we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102141	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102147	Every time I ask a question today, I would like to repeat that the Liberal Alliance is as much against insanity motorism as anyone else. This is the concrete approach to driving madness that we are questioning. Some people have cheap cars, others have expensive cars. I understand that the Danish People's Party thinks it is a perfectly reasonable punishment that if you have lent your car to the neighbour's son, who has been driving too fast, you lose your car forever. Is it reasonable that the person who borrows a car at $50,000 will be punished much less than the person who borrows a car at $500,000?? to the neighbor's son, who drives too fast than if you had borrowed the car, and it only cost 50,000 kroner.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102239	There is, of course, the fact that I think that the law should be equal for everyone, in the sense that if you have borrowed your car, it is your personal responsibility, and of course you must, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen said, himself assess whether you think that the person you borrow will drive safely, and perhaps also plead before you borrow the car, that after all you expect the car to be driven properly. But there will certainly be cases of grey areas, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, so there will also have to be an assessment of how serious it is, i.e. whether it is in line with the offence that has been committed. The aim is to take action against the drivers of madness, typically gang criminals or other things, and that is in first-time cases. I just think you can see that in some cases you're going to miss a wrong shot. I think we should have a proper debate on this in committee, and that is what I can hear, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen is looking for you. I think that would be quite reasonable, that is to say that we will have a look at whether there should be any derogations. After all, you make a concrete assessment of whether this is really so dangerous that it justifies making this confiscation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102338	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102339	But the law is what the Danish People's Party has agreed to be, and there is no exception. That means that there is no equality before the law here. If you borrow a car for 500,000 kroner. out to the neighbor's son and he's going too fast, you could lose 500,000 kroner. If you had been smart enough to borrow the old scrap box, which you also have at home, out to the neighbor's son, you will lose only $20,000, $30,000, $40,000. or $50,000 as it costs if he drives too fast and gets caught for insanity. So there's no equality before the law. People who borrow an expensive car get a much, much greater punishment for the crime, it is that they have borrowed their car out to someone other than people who borrow a cheap car out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102421	But I guess it's not so much different than it is in our traffic laws. I mean, if you're taken to drive at incredibly high speed, at 200 km/h, where you can drive 80 km/h, it's already the case that you can get a penalty where you have to pay a month's salary, and in repeat cases it's several months' wages you have to pay. There it hits harder those who have a higher salary. But they also have a higher amount of money available. So, on the other hand, if they all had to pay the same low rate, it would mean more to those who have a low income. So I really think that is a very good extension of the rules that are already there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102453	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Could I ask the rapporteur to prepare for the next rapporteur by just taking one of the disinfection napkins? The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102522	Thank you for the floor. We simply need to do more in the fight against driving madness. I think that the sad cases we have seen in recent times when people have died because others have been running irresponsibly show this. Last week, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we dealt with a proposal which tightens up the penalty for driving madness, and I think that is quite appropriate, both because the penalties were extremely low, but also because one has to know with oneself that one gets behind the wheel and drives too much gambling or harassment, so there is a great risk that things might go wrong. The outcome may be that you take someone else's life. Punishment is not always what makes people stop doing inappropriately, but exactly when it comes to traffic offences, we actually know that it works better to tighten up the penalties than in other crimes. On the other hand, it works less well on young people. That is why I think it is good that we are now also increasing the possibility of confiscating cars. Because you can hope that when we close this last hole in terms of being able to take the car from the people who choose to drive insane, they run out of companies at some point that will lease them a car, or for friends who will act as strawmen. I think there is a great need for the proposal, and I have seen in the consultation answers that there are many organisations that think that there are major problems with the proposal. I'm not tone-deaf, I'm actually responsive. And if there are obvious things that we can do and that have not already been investigated, I would like to help investigate this, but I would also like to insist that we have to close the last gap with confiscation. And, of course, with the proposal, there is a good deal of narrow access to the possibility of using the possibility of confiscation if it constitutes too much interference, and there is also the possibility that the company that is exposed to it here may make its claim against the driver of madness. And finally, we provide increased opportunities to avoid leasing a car to the wrong one. So SF is for this proposal, but let's finally have a deeper discussion about how we can improve the scheme. But the system must remain in our optics. After all, this is a narrow area which can lead to confiscation. We need to get up in something that looks like very irresponsible driving; it is not something you just get to. In other words, a great deal needs to be done before that can happen. Finally, I would like to say that we think it would perhaps also be appropriate to evaluate this scheme, both to look at the effects of the proposal, but also to take stock of the possible challenges that the proposal could bring about, so that we have a qualified basis for assessing it. In those words, however, I would like to say that the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102827	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102833	Most cars are bought by people who only use the car, for example. Half an hour every day. Therefore, there is a basis for good business models and sharing arrangements. Instead of everyone having their own car, you can join a scheme, and then you can use a common pool of cars. This is particularly widespread in the larger cities of Denmark, where people transport themselves in small electric cars and decide that they do not need a car themselves. It's really good in all kinds of ways, especially if you call yourself red-green, I think. Does the SF rapporteur agree that this proposal will make these arrangements more difficult and costly? It does this in the first place for the companies or for the communities that are behind it, but in the second place the extra cost will be borne by consumers, thus making it less attractive to rent credit cars through these schemes rather than owning them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204102937	I do not think it can be denied that this proposal will have a consequence for sharing car schemes, which are otherwise something that we very much support in the SF. But I have to repeat my words: I think this proposal for confiscation is needed. Creativity is just really, really great among the criminals who want to drive rotten and who want to keep having access to these cars. That is why we need to do more. But I am prepared, and I have also been in dialogue with the companies that have these schemes, to try to see if there is anything more we can do to protect ourselves from lending your car to the wrong people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103021	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103022	I do not think it is good enough for the SF rapporteur to say that the SF rapporteur will not deny that these arrangements can be more cumbersome and costly. That is not good enough when the SF's rapporteur knows that it would lead to it. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt knows that this will lead to additional costs for these car sharing schemes, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt knows that this will lead to a higher cost for consumers, and Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt knows that there will be a less widespread use of these schemes than without this law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103055	I think we should wait and see what the proposal really means. And then, as I said earlier, we are prepared to carry out an evaluation of this proposal. I do not wish to deny that in the long term we may have to make some adjustments, but right now we are faced with a very big and concrete challenge, which is that we must combat the car of madness. That is a broad majority in favour, and so we are also in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103121	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And if the rapporteur would also be kind enough to prepare the platform for the next rapporteur, that is fine. And the next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103150	Thank you for that and thank you to the previous rapporteurs. As many of you have said, we are trying to do something about the car of madness, and of course we share precisely and precisely the view that it must be stopped. Fortunately, here is one of the rare areas, I can say that can actually be affected by harsher punishment. It is by no means all the punishments that have been made over time that really have a crime prevention effect. This is something you do to punish criminals harder because you want to punish criminals harder, but it is not really something that prevents crime. This bill could be a part of that. The police find that they cannot confiscate enough, for example. Leased vehicles that have been used for driving madness. We would like to contribute to a significant increase in effort so that it is possible to do this very strongly crime prevention action and to tell people who are driving badly that they are in danger of losing their car. We will see in the legislative process whether we can address the most far-reaching consequences for so-called innocent people, including leasing companies with pure flour in the bag or sharing car schemes, so that they do not have disproportionate consequences from this bill. We would like to exorcise exactly what they are and what we can do to alleviate them. We will do so in the forthcoming legislative process and we hope that we can adequately take into account the possible unintended effects of this bill. Under these conditions, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103317	Thank you to the rapporteur, and I can see that the rapporteur is waiting for a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103325	All that talk about what the Radical Left is going to do in the legislative process is just to tell any listeners to this debate that something is still going to happen. The Radical Left has agreed that this should be the way the bill says here. The deal's made. There are no exceptions for car sharing schemes. There are no exceptions for the person who lends the car to the neighbor's son. This is what the Radical Left has agreed. Can we at least not get an honesty about it on the table: that the Radical Left has agreed this without the exceptions that Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen now requests?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103405	Thank you. In the course of this process, I have insisted that we take a closer look at this in the next legislative procedure. I must insist on this with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103414	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103416	I have never heard of the fact that first you make an agreement and then you go to the Parliamentary Chamber and say: we believe that it can be better after a legislative proposal has been made which follows the agreement completely and which there is a great deal of insistence from the governing party that it should be there and that the exceptions that the rapporteur in this case is asking for should not be met according to the ruling party. I've never heard of it. So, to me, it is just the Radical Left rapporteur who is trying to deceive some people that he will do something which he well knows he cannot do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103453	Thank you. I have read with great interest the consultation answers, which came after the conclusion of the vote agreement, and they must of course be taken seriously. They're not just coming for fun. Such consultation answers are part of our legislative preparatory work, and we simply want to get it into the way we deal with this bill, and I think that is quite natural. And I must say that's not just a bluff from my time. This is what we want radically.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103516	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103541	When you get behind the wheel of a car, there is a huge responsibility with which you do so for yourself, but especially for your passengers and everyone else who travels on the road. Fortunately, the vast majority of us are aware of this. We are aware of the responsibilities and comply with the rules we have in traffic. Unfortunately, however, there are a few who choose to override the concerns of everyone else. Perhaps they overestimate their own abilities, or maybe they simply don't care about their fellow humans. Unfortunately, we have seen too many heartbreaking stories in the media about this when unsuspecting people are struck by the ruthlessness of the drivers. This is both unacceptable and untenable and puts deep marks on both the victims and their relatives. We therefore need to tighten up and react. As a community, we must draw a line in the sand. That is why Enhedslisten has also agreed to the agreement which contains a large number of initiatives designed to prevent people who drive completely stupid from being able to continue to sit behind the wheel and put others at risk. Some of the initiatives are aimed at tougher penalties. For us, it is not a question of punishing these people for the sake of punishment, but of ensuring that they are cut off to a greater extent the opportunity to put themselves back behind the wheel of a car, just as it is important for the Enhedslisten that the agreement also focuses on enhanced preventive action against driving madness in the form of better opportunities to expose strawmen by leasing and better opportunities for leasing, rental and share car companies to protect themselves against people who have previously been convicted of driving madness. Against this background, Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103729	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103734	The Liberal Alliance is as much against insanity carism as anyone else. It's terrible, and it needs to be stopped. But because you are against something, it is not justified to use all means, no matter how hard and just they are. Now I am not fully aware of whether Enhedslisten at the moment even thinks that cars should be allowed in the city, but if it is to be allowed with cars in the city, does Enhedslisten not think it is better with these sharing car schemes where more families share the same car instead of having one car each? And does Enhedslisten not agree that this bill makes it both more expensive and more difficult to be a company offering share car schemes and to be a customer using share car schemes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103821	It is absolutely true that our cities are being filled with cars that fill up and create long queues. That is why we are very much in favour of sharing car systems. And it is true, as the SF rapporteur also said, that this may well have some, I think, quite minor consequences for the share-car companies. However, I would like to accept that in order to avoid madness drivers being able to make use of car sharing schemes to drive around.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103849	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103851	I think many people feel the same way as I do: yes, it might well be that you should try to make your car available to others through a sharing car system. But if it is the case that you can then lose that car because the person who borrows it may not have been taken for crazy driving in the past and it is therefore not clear from any criminal record that he has been taken for crazy driving, now intends to do so for the first time in my car and it is a lovely car, also to accelerate in the car. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen saw that there are more people or fewer people who want to make their car available for a share car scheme with this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204103933	I do not think this proposal makes any significant difference in terms of whether people will let their car be part of a car sharing scheme. And in the draft law there are, in fact, opportunities for the owner, if there are excessive intervention options, to get his car back. But I am open to looking at it if, as the SF's rapporteur also said, there is a need for some small adjustments in the bill. So let us look at this in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104008	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104027	Thank you very much. Yes, a great deal has now been said on this matter in the House. I have to say that no one should be in any doubt that drivers of madness have to get off the Danish roads. We ensure this in several ways, for example by giving the police the resources they need to be where the drivers of madness are, and by making this law to take these cars, which are leased. The bill is not so much different than the law is today. When I drive my private car and I choose to drive 220 km/h. On the freeway, where I have to drive 110 km/h, yes, then you can take my car. That's the risk. I have to say that when you're dealing with this, it's all about some puddles and vandals out there that have the sole purpose in life to harm other people. And they can do that either by using their cars as the death machines that they can be, if they don't treat them properly, or they can do it by selling drugs, or what do I know? What I am a little sceptical about in this draft law is, in fact, the relatively high limit, I think, as there is in it. So, as we say in Jutland, at a rate of 2.0, you are good dingel. And then there's this stuff when you've been using drugs. I talked to the minister about it yesterday and he said that yes, but the thing about taking drugs is either-or. It's hard to grade how crooked you are, and we laughed so little, and that's how it is. But that doesn't change the fact that when we make a law like this, it's gonna have to be very restrictive, and unfortunately it's gonna have to, because these freaks, who are driving around the streets of Copenhagen and Jutland and elsewhere, will always find loopholes in this leasing world. That is why we need to be very, very restrictive. But it is clear that, as a conservative, I am of course concerned about the impact the restrictions have on business, this inequality, which may well be between the banks, which have financed a car and have mortgaged it, and the leasing companies. I have also spoken to both leasing companies and car rental companies and green mobility companies etc. in the last few days, and there are some ways in which a leasing company could write itself out of this, in terms of how to set up its companies, who bails for whom, and how to take a mortgage on the cars, etc. There is a small problem with car rental companies, which do not have cars for such a long time in the country before they are exported again, and we must hope that they can find solutions to that. But I look forward very much to following the second reading and seeing what we can do in it and whether we can do something about it, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has said well in the past can be difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104326	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104332	Is it the view of the Conservative People's Party that one has committed a major crime which should result in the confiscation of one's car, which is perhaps DKK 300,000-400,000. Worth or something like that, because one has not been able to figure out that the neighbour's son, who came and asked if he could borrow the car, had the intention of driving too heavily on a deserted road in Jutland? So, there has simply been a crime that makes you deserve to have your car confiscated because you couldn't figure out that the neighbor's son was going to drive too fast or perhaps at some point during the trip found out that he wanted to drive fast?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104416	It is the view of the Conservative People's Party that if you drive at double speed of what you must, you are mad at yourself, and if you are there, you should not be allowed to drive a car and excuse me. And that's what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen with a guarantee also say if where he lives we could see that on a television show recently that cars came running at over 100 km/h. in a 50-mile zone. It's no different. You are putting yourself at risk, but above all you are putting other people's lives at risk, and that is madness. The law is no different from what it is today, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. If I do it in my private hybrid car I don't have an electric car yet... so double up, then the car gets taken. So this is the question of comparing leasing cars with privately owned cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104505	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104507	I thought it must have been a statement when Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen said in the first place that the law today, where you can also have your car confiscated if you drive too fast, is no different from the new law, which means that Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen can have his car confiscated, or I or Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen can, if we have borrowed the car for the neighbour's son and the neighbour's son drives too fast. I figured it was a statement when Mr. Cole... Niels Flemming Hansen said that there was no difference between the situation, where it is the one that is running too fast that is being punished, and the situation where it is the one who has borrowed his car to someone who has been driving too fast, who is being punished so that there is no difference there. But now Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen repeated it. So it's not a statement. He really thinks that there is no difference between confiscating your own car or confiscating someone else's car.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104553	If I lend my car to the neighbour's son or, for that matter, to my own son, who has just turned 18, then it is my responsibility, that is, to lend it to someone I trust will not use my car as a murder weapon.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104608	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And could the rapporteur please prepare for the next rapporteur? Thank you. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104628	Thank you so much. We have seen some terrible examples of driving madness. We have seen the example of a man who drove completely crazy on Langebro and killed a policeman. We have recently seen a completely insane and heartbreaking example of one, again, man who drove completely insane and killed a 5-year-old girl. That is why it is absolutely essential that we strike down very hard on those who drive madness. That is why, of course, New Citizens are also included in the very, very broad agreement to stop driving madness. And we've been pretty clear from the start. We think it is very good that the penalty should be significantly increased, and we also have a heartfelt wish, which I know my party chairman has also asked to be addressed separately to the Minister for Justice, that criminal foreigners should of course also be expelled for this type of crime. That's all I needed. With regard to driving madness, it is in our optics that we are going to hit very hard, because we will simply not tolerate that in Denmark. We will not tolerate some people using cars as murder weapons; we will not tolerate some people who are completely stunned indifferent to whether there are children or, in any case, citizens in Denmark who are walking around the streets and alleys and who may be hit by this. It's ruthless, and it's heartbreaking over and over again to experience these terrible things from all parts of Denmark. So, of course, New Citizens also support this specific bill, which is also part of the overall agreement we made at the time on driving madness. It's all missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104818	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104824	When New Citizens went to these debates on driving madness, in which we would also have liked to have been involved, if there had not been this completely unacceptable proposal as part of it, was it the intention of New Citizens that people could lose their own car if they borrowed it to the neighbour's son, who drives too fast, or that people who borrow their car out through sharing car schemes could lose their car, that is to say, have it confiscated and sold, and lose its value if they borrowed it through a sharing car scheme to someone else who proved to be driving too fast? Was it a wish with which New Citizens went to negotiations, or was it something where New Citizens said: well, OK, the government wants to, and we also want a lot of the other thing; we don't want to do this, but we want to be in the deal anyway, even if this is what we are really against? Or did New Citizens come to the negotiations with the wish that people who are not driving too fast should have taken away their car if they have borrowed it to someone who has been driving too fast?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104925	When you are negotiating an agreement, for example. as this agreement, there are some specific requirements. Well, we had, for example, that the criminal foreigners must of course also be deported for this, i.e. driving madness, of course you have to. And I'm gonna be completely honest with you. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, who has now pointed this out to all the rapporteurs in the Chamber, is that it is essential for us in the New Citizens' Party to ensure that there is no madness in the car industry than to promote car sharing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104950	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204104952	What about private property? What about the fact that people have their property and that the punishment they might have to do something in their property must be linked to whether it is they who do it? It should not be linked to the fact that they would like to do a service to their neighbors or would like to participate in a sharing car scheme which would then be exploited by some others who are driving too fast. Such civil society must be allowed to exist without imposing the punishment of confiscating the car against those who have done nothing, but only punishing the person who has done something.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204105031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204105032	Again: I have heard the rapporteur mention this several times. Personally, I would never lend my car myself, even to the neighbour's son... I think he's 12 years old, so it wouldn't be very relevant either. But I would simply not do that because it is my responsibility to ensure that I do not lend my car to someone who might drive crazy. So, no, I just don't understand what to say, this whole problem. It is clear, of course, that, as a leasing company, you must be fully aware that you are not renting these cars to anyone. It is they who borrow the car that are in charge. So, no, it is not a problem that we see standing in the way of making this very good move to stop the car of madness.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204105119	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There are no more brief comments. I would like to ask the rapporteur to prepare for the last party's rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204105141	People driving crazy in traffic are a huge problem. It is completely aggressive to put other people at risk of life in this way, because you are selfish or because you trust your own driving skills too much. You don't have to drive too fast in this society because there's too much risk with it. Crazy driving is the most crazy form of fast driving. That is why we are happy to vote in favour of the draft law put forward by the Minister for Justice. We have already announced this with a number of effective penalties for people driving madness. It's just missing, it's in order, and it's necessary. If it had only been part of the agreement against driving madness that had been concluded by the parties of the Folketing, we would also have been in that agreement, because we are just as opposed to driving madness, and we believe as much that higher penalties will help here as everyone else. The problem is that this agreement also contains this element and this bill, which in its essence means that if someone has borrowed a car from another person, then the other person can be punished by confiscating the car if the borrower drives crazy. Confiscation of the car is not the same as seizure. In other words, seizure is about someone driving too fast, you take the car from him because you don't want it, and the car is only handed over, against you putting some amount or other. Anyone who actually owns the car can actually get the car, because he didn't drive too fast. Confiscation is that you take the car and sell it to the highest bidder and stop the money in the treasury. That means that if Mr. Jensen would like to borrow his car to the neighbor's son, because the neighbor's son needs to come to the soccer game in Series 3, where he plays his parents use the car themselves, and he needs a car from somewhere else, so now he borrows a car from Mr. Mr. Jensen... Jensen now only do it with the beaver in the future. For think, if the son, who is 19 years old and has just received a driving licence, thinks he should take advantage of the fact that it is a quiet Sunday in West Jutland and the road is empty, to drive everything, too fast. The son deserves a punishment for that, but Mr. Jensen deserved to lose his car because he kindly lent it to the neighbor's son who was going to the soccer game? I don't think so. I simply cannot see the reasonableness of it. It's totally unfair. The purpose of stopping driving madness is a good purpose, but not to use this means, which means that people cannot help each other in the neighbourhood, and that people cannot make use of car sharing systems where they make the car available to others who do not have cars, because they do not necessarily know those people so well that they know that they could never drive so much too fast that it is madness driving. You don't even know the neighbor's son that well. Even though you may have known him for all 19 years of his life, it may well be that he could come up with this. It destroys the unity of the community; it destroys the fact that you can be together about something and make things available to each other; it destroys civil society that in this way you impose a huge punishment for the kindness that those who receive kindness might want to abuse. And then there's no equality for the law in this. Whoever borrows a car for $50,000. out, may at most risk losing 50,000 kroner. If you're one of those people who care a little bit about the car and spent more money on the car and maybe saved a little on the home instead, because you'd rather have a nice car to drive in, and have a car for $500,000, you risk losing $500,000 if you lend it to the neighbor's son. In other words, it is the same offence that has been committed, and the offence is the terrible one, that you have had confidence in the neighbour's son, and that you have not been able to assess whether the neighbour's son could drive too fast. The offence is the same, but whoever has a $50,000 car gets a much smaller penalty than the one with a $500,000 car. I predict that when the first stories come out, the rapporteurs start to fall away. They are going to say in their local press, if it is in their local area: this was certainly not the point of the law, and I could never support that; now I will go to the Minister and I will raise the matter with the Minister; now he must do something; it is the Minister who must do something. And those who hear that kind of talk just need to know that everyone is aware that that is what they have agreed and they will not be able to excuse themselves when the individual cases appear, because it is quite unreasonable what this law will have with consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204105655	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204105701	Thank you. Now I'm liberal, and I think Ole Birk Olesen is. After all, we like the principle of freedom under responsibility, and that is exactly what it is about responsibility for using a car securely. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen not that if you have the hypothetical case of borrowing a car to the neighbor's son, then you have a responsibility yourself? You equip another person with a vehicle that could potentially become a killing machine. Don't you have a responsibility yourself? And if sir... Ole Birk Olesen is in doubt, I can give the advice that you should not lend the car to the neighbour's son if you do not know his character well enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204105741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204105743	You have a responsibility for what you can have a responsibility for. If the neighbor's son comes to sir... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen and he knows that the neighbor's son is a bully and a speed freak, and that he races on weekends in his parents' car and asks to borrow Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's car, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is responsible for using his common sense and not borrowing his car out. But it's ordinary kids in Jutland who can drive too fast when they get out on a deserted road, at a time when there are no people. We know them all; maybe we even did it ourselves when we were 18-19 years old and had just got a driver's license. Maybe sir did. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen himself did it, maybe his own son did it. So, there are many people in the countryside who, when they see an empty road and are young and presumptuous, can put pressure on the accelerator. You can't see it, and when you can't see it, it's hard to have that responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204105849	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204105851	I think, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is getting a little weak in the argument here, because it's like that driving crazy is something you can get to. And I'm a little sad that this is supposed to be a particular Jutland phenomenon, because I actually think it's particularly common here in the metropolitan area. It is also true in Jutland, but at least there are major problems with this in the metropolitan area. Then Mr. Ole Birk Olesen really, that's something you're just going to do, that's to drive over 100 km/h. in a city or over 200 km/h. On a freeway? It is as if it is a trivialisation of the concept of insanity motorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204105920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204105922	It is certainly not a trivialisation of the concept of insanity. You do not do that, you do it consciously, and you must not do it, and all sensible people can do it. But Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen can't look at the neighbor's son if he's somebody who would drive too fast. You might know that Kenneth there doesn't need the car, because I know he's gonna drive too fast. But it is not certain that you can see it on Peter, i.e. if he is someone who would do it when the road is empty and he just got a driver's license. It's not certain that you can see it on him. And in that case, I do not think it is fair that you risk losing your car because you could not predict that Peter could drive too fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204110008	The next brief remark is to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204110012	Thank you very much. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen mentioned these car sharing schemes earlier, and it can be both GoMore schemes and green mobility schemes, and what else they are called. In my conversations with these companies, I've been told that you can write your way out of it in these leases, after all, you get when you make deals; that you can write out that you are in charge of compensation and so on. etc. Compared to the car. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, isn't that enough in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204110043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204110046	There are two ways to be sure. You can ensure that the driver of the car is responsible for replacing the car, and I think that might already be in the legislation in some way. But it can be hard to charge that money. Then you can insure yourself, but it will cost the very product you supply to the customer; that is to say, that you are about to buy an insurance policy for which you have to pay and for which you have to charge the consumer the extra money. So it will be more expensive for consumers to take advantage of these car sharing schemes, and this will reduce their spread on all other equals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204110121	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204110123	Yes, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is certainly right. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, that there would be sense in evaluating the law in 12 months and saying: Where have we hit then, and has it been wrong in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204110137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204110140	Yeah, well, it's better than nothing, but I think you shouldn't do this. What should be done was to say: if a person has received enough serious sentences for breaching the speed limits during a period or one infringement for driving madness, he or she comes on a list, and then anyone who borrows cars out may also be able to go on that list by private people and see if the person who wants to borrow the car is on the list because he or she has been driving a lot too fast or even crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204110213	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no more brief comments. All the rapporteurs from the parties have taken the floor and now the Minister of Transport is being prepared to come to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204110233	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law. Officer killed by a driver of madness at Langebro. Vanvidsbilist drove 124 km/h. in the city zone. Vanvidsbilist sent woman into a coma and drove 5-year-old girl to death. Unfortunately, this is the reality we live in, where headlines like these are some, children and adults can read in the media. Unfortunately, we live in a world where some people behave so recklessly in traffic that it hits the media that it hits the front pages of the newspapers. Their behaviour is such a serious threat to our road safety that we have to legislate against it. That is why we are here today because their behaviour is a great danger to all of us. This is a threat to our social order. It is a disgrace to the way we live together as civilised people, and it must be stopped now. It's actually pretty simple. Our paths must be safe. They must be a safe place to travel, and we can only maintain that if we all comply with the traffic law and, moreover, have good behaviour towards each other in traffic. It's not wishful thinking. That's how it is. That is how it should be, but not everyone agrees with it in our society. There are a few people at home who drive with the accelerator completely down and deliberately ignore the speed limits, deliberately ignore signs about urban zones and deliberately ignore the presence of other road users on roads and paths. They are destroying our common understanding of how we should behave towards each other in traffic. The violations of traffic law that are taking place are so emphatic that they draw a wheel trail of death and accident in the wake of them. But we cannot stop the driver if we do not also stop the car and we must stop the car of madness. That is the government's absolute objective, and that also applies to the parties behind this agreement, but we cannot stop driving madness if we do not also use tough means. We have to fight hard. I'm sure everyone in here will agree with me that if you've only drove 120 km/h. Through a city zone that is signposted at 50 km/h, it is not a fine that causes the driver to shake his pants in fear. What works is to completely remove the driver's ability to drive madness again. That is the only way we can be sure: without a car, no driving. That is why, as part of the bill, we propose that the car be taken in the second it has been used for driving madness, whether the driver owns the vehicle himself or whether the vehicle is owned by a third party. There are critics of this bill who say that it is too intrusive that we go too far, and I agree that it is intrusive that it is especially so if the car does not belong to the driver himself. It is a big and serious step to deprive someone of their property if they have not driven the car this way themselves, but there is no doubt for me that that is what it takes. This is simply necessary if the rules are to have the desired effect. That is why I do not agree that we are going too far with the proposal, because we need to go far if we are to catch up and ultimately stop drivers driving madness. Of course, when we propose such far-reaching requirements, we have also taken into account the consequences that this could have for those who are unconsciously involved. This applies, for example, if the driver has borrowed a car from his aunt, his neighbour or his boss and then used it for driving madness. If that happens, the owner has the opportunity to address a financial claim against the driver of the car. It is important to remember and it will allow the owner to recover his loss. At the same time, perhaps there is also reason today, as Minister of Transport, to lift a moral index finger to all car owners in this country: consider who you are lending your car to. You must have a serious talk with your big children before they borrow the car, you must consider who in the family or circle of friends you lend the keys to. And if you are head of a transport company, a service company or somewhere else where drivers are employed, then they must of course have a thorough instruction on what you are using the car for, and especially what you do not need the car for. In fact, I already expect that to happen in many places in responsible companies, but now there is the fact that it can now have an even greater impact on the owner if it turns out that the car has been used for driving madness, whether you were aware that it happened or not. Those are tough methods, no doubt about it, but I also know that madness continues if we do not do just that. Taking the car must apply to all crazy drivers. There must be no exceptions and there must be no loopholes. We know from the police review in connection with the agreement made that certain leasing companies are in contact with the gang environment. They use the companies to gain access to expensive luxury cars, although they often have quite modest revenues themselves, for example. cash benefits. Then they use the cars to drive crazy, and that will have no consequences for them. Therefore, if we start to exempt specific industries and specific types of vehicles it could be the sharing car industry, it could be short-term rental, it could be smaller cars, it could be the loan of cars in family conditions etc. gang members and other drivers who have a similar lack of respect for law and order and respect for others, and that does not add up. I am convinced that these stumbled vessels will soon be able to hide behind various structures with car sharing schemes, business constructions, commercial transport and lending models, where the car is supposedly a family member and then lent to the driver of madness. We must not give them that opportunity, and I and the government will not give them that opportunity. That is why I also disagree with those who have criticised the proposal for not having these special exceptions. It is our responsibility to ensure that we do not put more lives at risk when these crazy drivers cannot find out for themselves, and that is why we have to take the car away from them. I would just like to make a brief comment to Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær's comments on road work. I would remind you that the main exit point on motorways is that you sign down to 80 km/h. Unless you definitely cross over a roadwork, where there will typically be very marked signage, then the typical sign-down speed on motorways is 80 km/h. That is to say, if you accidentally cross the speed limits very significantly, it is because you already drive more than 160 km/h, that is to say too fast, whether or not it is a motorway with a speed limit of 130 km/h. or 110 km/h. That is why I do not think it is possible to assume that people will be in this situation unwittingly. It is clear that I look forward to further discussion here in the Danish Parliament, and we naturally make ourselves available to answer any questions in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204111155	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204111201	I have put forward a number of situations here in which I think this law would be unfair and inappropriate, and I think there were three of the rapporteurs who replied to the rapporteur from the DF, the rapporteur from the SF and the rapporteur from the Radical Left: yes, yes, but now we are working on the work of the committee, and we will certainly do some things about it, so that there will be some exceptions which will make the law not as inappropriate as you, Ole Birk Olesen, have pointed out. Is this something that the government is open to: that there should be some exceptions? Or has the government given the impression to the rapporteurs that there would be some exceptions? Or on what do you think these statements from Parliament's platform are based?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204111248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204111250	The proposal is what we expect to be adopted as well. I have noted that there has been an awareness on the issue of car mortgages. It is the case that if you have a mortgage on a car, for example. the bank that has a mortgage in the car after the car has first been seized by the police, subsequently in a court case has been confiscated through the judiciary, because the police cannot do so themselves, as it has to be done via a judge when the car is put on auction, could get a share in the funds that come in through the auction. And it is clear that some in the leasing industry have perceived a bias, but it is the case that in the leasing industry you can also choose to pawn your car if you have a construction where you use it here. So I think that some of this is about, among other things. these elements about how to do it. It is clear, then, that we should not be mistaken about the fact that the private-law arrangement of rental contracts is also quite crucial, and we would be very happy to explain this, in other words how the leasing companies can organise their contracts, so as to take as many assurances as possible in relation to the things that are and also to use the methods that are now guaranteed through, for example. In other words, you can obtain a private-law criminal record and also make use of the opportunities that exist to gain insight into a person's tax situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204111436	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204111438	It was a long talk about financial engineering that has not been discussed in the Chamber today. What has been discussed are some aspects of car sharing schemes and private people borrowing out, etc. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær has mentioned someone who drives on the motorway at night, a place where there is road work during the day, which is not at night, but there is still a speed limitation. In the cases that have been mentioned in today's debate, is there any prospect that the government believes that some exceptions should be made to this legislation during the legislative procedure in committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204111510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204111512	I think there are good answers to everything, including the question of speed on motorways, and of course we would also like to make that clear in the answers that may be available. The answers that come may of course also be expressed in the report, so that it is made clear. I would also just like to emphasise that when it comes to evaluation, I will, of course, be following very closely the developments in this area. We are not going to make a proper evaluation of this in the short term, because it does not make sense. If we did it already after a year, we would hardly see a consequence of this. But, of course, we will be following the concrete developments in this area, and I think everyone will be interested to keep up with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204111600	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. And thank you very much for getting ready for the next one to be on the platform. The Minister of Transport, I think I should). Yes, that is quite correct! As far as this first reading is concerned, no more people have asked to speak and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204111646	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204111659	I am relatively comfortable with the fact that there is a lot of alcohol here. Thank you for the floor. We are dealing today with motion for a resolution No. B 112, which requires the government to initiate a survey of the consequences of queue driving in Denmark for business, mobility, settlement and labour supply, as well as the effects of queue driving on climate and air pollution. Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 112 requires the Ministry of Transport and Housing to ensure that an independent and external advisor prepares the mapping, and this must be done by 1 July 2021, i.e. this year. B 112 calls for 2 million to be set aside. kr. to carry out this mapping. It is particularly relevant to have a better knowledge base on the consequences of queue driving, and it is also part of the decision-making framework for future infrastructure and transport projects. In my opinion, it is particularly relevant to highlight the climate consequences, as it is the case that CO2 and the emissions increase both when the speed is high and when there is congestion and when there is queued up. So that's quite relevant. Therefore, the government has also already initiated an internal pre-analysis of the climate consequences of queue and stop and go-driving. This project is anchored in the Vejdirektoratet. The Government believes that a greater coverage of the consequences of queue driving and congestion, including an overview of the specific impact on business, would be a fine addition to the current project, which is thus anchored with the Road Directorate. It is the government's policy that such a task should be sought first and foremost in the official work, and that exposure to competition should be applied only in those situations and for the analyses and partial analyses where necessary. I would say that it is an expression of distrust of the Road Directorate that, in this situation, we are taking on a motion for a resolution based on a wording with a clear demand for the use of an external and impartial adviser. In the government, we have great confidence in the Vejdirektoratet in relation to the competences that you have there. Moreover, I have just noted that the motion for a resolution does not contain any proposals for financing the costs of advisory services. A better knowledge base on the consequences of queue driving will ensure that we use investment funds and other policy measures effectively, both in terms of better mobility and in terms of reducing traffic's climate footprint. Where do we get the most out of focusing on investment in public transport; where does it make the most sense to invest in road construction and optimization of intersections for the green cars of the future; and what are the consequences of speed changes? These are extremely interesting and relevant questions to be answered. We do not have all the answers now, but the analysis that has been launched will hopefully contribute to a better decision-making basis in future decisions on major transport and infrastructure projects. So when the Vejdirektoratet is longer in the work on the consequences of queue driving, I look forward to sharing and discussing the results and implications of the analysis with the Danish Parliament's parties. I imagine that we will do so by convening the Parliamentary Transport Committee and possibly other relevant committees. Perhaps it could be the Climate and Energy Committee and others who could have an interest in hearing more about the results achieved by the Road Directorate when we get there. So in other words, the government rejects the motion for a resolution, on the grounds that it is an analysis work that is already under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112056	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister. First, it's sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112101	Thank you. I would like to sign for the Minister's relatively friendly rejection of the motion for a resolution. I understand that this is because we are about to kick in an open door because there are supposedly some internal analyses going on. We look forward to seeing them as the basis for future traffic negotiations. However, when we have chosen to table the motion for a resolution, it is because we believe that there is a need for us, as a society in general, to focus on the fact that our mobility is dangerously low and on how much it costs us not only economically, but also humanly, that we are wasting so much time in traffic. Then there are some concepts that I think there is too little attention to, especially over in the Ministry of Finance. A concept such as labour supply is, of course, at the heart of our national economy, but there has been too little focus on this in terms of traffic, and this is one of the things we would like to focus more on in the future and on which we hope we will also have a debate today. Then there are the climate effects that the Minister also mentioned. So can the Minister see that we need to focus more on labour supply and the commercial effects of the investments we make in our infrastructure?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112212	It is the case that the socio-economic calculations of road investment and investment in public transport already incorporate the weighting of labour supply. This is concrete because, if you have a time saving, there is a weighting of how much of the time saving that happens in traffic, you assume going to private leisure time, and how much will go to working more quickly and well. There are great effects of this, and there is no doubt that you can find plenty of examples that there is a queue in Denmark, where it will also make very good sense to make investments and combat congestion • no doubt about it. This can be done both by extending the road and by changing behavior etc. So it's relevant to look at these things. As I said, labour supply is already included, but that does not change the fact that the government fully agrees that this is something that needs to be highlighted, and we want to do so too. So it is true that this is a very kind rejection, because we fully agree that it needs to be clarified. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112325	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112329	Thank you for your answer. I am well aware that when we have the concept of the socio-economic return on a project, a large number of factors are involved. I just think that it is important to get the highlight exactly the job offer, because that is something that is crucial in the political debate, even when we look further ahead and at the need for reform and the fact that we have an economy for our well-being in the future. Then we can play a major role in transport. So will the Minister help us to get the highlight, that there is really a lot to be done on the job offer if we invest wisely in our infrastructure?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112405	At least I think it is quite relevant that we remember to decompose. When we talk about a socio-economic benefit from a given project, whether it is a road or a piece of rail or a bicycle path for that matter, we tend to focus on the figure and not so much on what are the individual components of the figure. So I think that is a very sensible statement coming from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. How we can use it in practice, I would very much like to give some reflections.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112439	The next brief remark is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112446	Knowledge is always good when it comes to making decisions, including what the consequences of queues are. But the solution is not necessarily to increase the mapping. The solution is, of course, that we get invested in our roads so that we can get rid of queues, whether it is investment in motorways, extension of highways or new roads. So I'm actually just gonna quietly ask the Minister of Transport when he calls these infrastructure negotiations. Because I understand on the media around the country locally that there are many Social Democrats who say that it will be February. So I would just like to know if the Minister can confirm that infrastructure negotiations will be convened in February.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112524	There is no date on which the invitation will land in Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær's inbox. But we will come back to that when I can say something more specific about it. By the way, I'm gonna give you mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is absolutely right that knowledge is important. That is why, of course, we will also ensure that these analyses can be included as far as possible in the further work. Then it is also clear that we are currently carrying out a number of technical reviews of various updated vvm analyses, pre-analyses and various other studies that we are examining with the Committee on Transport and which, of course, are also extremely relevant. And that is why, of course, I hope that there too we will look into the rather rich knowledge which we actually have at our disposal and which is currently being updated for a number of projects in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112619	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112623	The reason I am asking is that the good motion for a resolution from the Left shows that the Danes waste 83 million hours in their cars every year. This corresponds to a socio-economic loss of approx. 26 billion kr. a year. And that's why it could be good to get started. That's not 26 billion. kr., which we necessarily need, but there really is some money to come for. And it means something to people who are wasting their time • people who have to go to work and spend their time there, and perhaps also people who could have stayed at home with their families. After all, some time has passed since the elections, when the old transport agreement was cancelled. So I wonder a little why we should not just be called in for the negotiations, i.e. whether we should not just get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112701	Among the things that we have to do, among other things. We need to ensure that there is also an opportunity for green cars to travel on the roads of the future, for example. can also be charged. The Eldrup Commission is responsible for making two sub-reports. The first sub-report was about how taxation should be organised. It became part of the agreement on the green transition of road transport, unfortunately a very narrow agreement I would have liked it to have become a very broad political agreement. I hope that the agreement on a green mobility plan, which is about the infrastructure, will be broad. And some of what we need to look at is, among other things. also how we ensure that there is an opportunity to drive with the green cars of the future. That is why I also see it as natural that the Eldrup Commission should report their second part, so that we can also include that part in the work on the Green Mobility Plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112745	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. There are no further brief comments to the Minister of Transport. The next rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204112810	It is a good and relevant resolution which highlights a major transport policy problem, namely congestion and lack of mobility on the Danish roads. As the Road Directorate stated last year, it costs Danish society 26 billion. kr. of course, we need to learn more about this every year by analysing the tribulation thoroughly and putting in place common solutions so that we can deal with as many problems as possible. At the same time, we must also remove many of the negative effects that queue driving has on climate, environment, settlement opportunities for Danish employees and companies' ability to recruit skilled workers, and the barrier to a thriving economy throughout the country, we must be able to address. It is a bottom-up task for us transport policyers to learn more about it and find common solutions, and as the Minister for Transport has already explained, a project is, I am glad to say, already under way in the Road Directorate. They are preparing a thorough analysis and, within a little year, they can have the results of the analysis ready for us so that we can take them into account in future decisions on transport. With this proposal we can say, and the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution has actually said so from the bottom of the House today, that the proposers are kicking in an open door. It is gratifying that many of us are interested in having the same analyses done, but in other words, we are waiting for the analysis work that comes from the Road Directorate, and on that basis the Social Democrats cannot support the concrete resolution. And I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left and say that the rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, just became involved in some obligations in another rapporteur's area, and that the Radical Left, like the Social Democrats, cannot support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113000	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113006	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Thomas Jensen for the kind rejection. I can hear that we are about to kick in an open door, but we want to make sure that the door is wide open so that we really promote our mobility. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Thomas Jensen, if he doesn't see the idea that we're going to go deeper and deeper than the numbers we have, by 26 billion. kr. etc. Will it not help our good friends over in the Ministry of Finance, right next door, lighten the lid a little on the Treasury and ensure that we invest what we need in our infrastructure? That's really what this is all about. After all, we are in competition with all the other good policy areas in the world, but if we basically do not invest enough in our infrastructure, we will be a poorer country. Well, let's see what these numbers are. Well, then, sir. Thomas Jensen doesn't see the idea that we're getting a little deeper into this? And could it be imagined that we could land it here with a report in committee in which we are trying to bring ourselves together ahead of the forthcoming negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113105	I fully agree with Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says we need to learn more about this. That is also what I understand that the work undertaken by the Road Directorate with further in-depth analyses can give us a greater knowledge of, in other words, where the problems come from and where we can take action to solve those problems. So in this way I believe that we will have a good basis for decision-making for our future negotiations, in other words, on the basis of the work done by the Road Directorate. I would also say that when it is documented here that it is 26 billion. kr. a year, it is a major social problem. That is why I am also sure that the red building, the Ministry of Finance, will also be pleased that we are making well-founded arguments when we say that there is a need to take action in these areas. So on the question of whether a report should be made in the Committee on Transport: let us look at it; I am not a hundred per cent dismissive, because if we agree, it is always good that we can get it down in writing. But let us look in committee at what is proposed for texts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113207	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113211	Thanks for the last one. I think that is constructive. We're not trying to bite the government on this point, even though they really deserve it. We've been waiting a long time for these negotiations. But we are looking for something to happen that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned. I think many Danes are. That is why I just want to try to formulate a report which is not a slap in the head report, but a report that is constructive and leads towards the common things that I think we can actually agree on. Then we will try, and I hear that the rapporteur is willing to look at it constructively.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113245	Thank you. We should not write away from each other, and I also think it is very gratifying that it is the rapporteur of the Left who says so. Because you could say that this hump with 26 billion. kr. in lost profits in Danish society each year is after a long time with bourgeois governments and after a long period of years with an investment plan which was adopted under a bourgeois government. It can be said that we have not come deep enough and solved those problems. It is therefore very gratifying if we can be wiser in the future together and together make good decisions that will reduce this loss of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113316	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party when we have just got ready for it. Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113339	Thank you. As has already been said, also by the two previous rapporteurs and by the Minister, this is about queue driving and mapping the consequences of it. They are there, and I am thinking: do we not already know the consequences of a lot of queues? Because this is actually very good from the motion for a resolution, which refers to a report by the Road Directorate, among others. say that there are delays and queues on the roads for what is equal to 360,000 hours each day. This amounts to 83 million vehicle hours lost per year. And as the debate has shown, it has a socio-economic loss of 26 billion. kr. a year. So we know what the consequences are, and that is a bad thing for our society, both financially, but also for people's time, in relation to the fact that in principle they just sit and look into the air, where they might as well have been at work or have been at home with their families, or at least have prioritised time themselves. This is also evident from many of the studies that I am familiar with and that are being carried out when it comes to extending a road, i.e. the vvm studies, where there is such a calculation of the socio-economic return, and you also look at how much time you can save as a driver when you transport from a to b. So I fully admit that there are major problems with queue driving around our country, but I do not see that a solution is an external study with more desk work, where things are mapped out. Well, the solution is that we decide where the roads should go. Where are they to be expanded? Where do they possibly need to be re-established? Where will there be new motorways? It's a solution to the queue, no more desk work. That is why I think that the solution to this problem is to get the government to convene these infrastructure negotiations. I also know that the proposers agree with that. We had, of course, a good infrastructure plan from before the elections. So there is no majority for that now, and that is democracy. However, we need a new debate to be convened. So instead of supporting this proposal, I would actually like to propose that we make a joint report instead of requiring the government to call for negotiations. It could be before the end of February. We all know the road projects. We know where there are problems with queue driving and where there is a need for investment. So the challenge we have is not to get any more reports on the traffic. The challenge is that we need the government to convene these negotiations so that we can get started. So I will actually try to propose that we look into the work of the committee, whether we can have a joint report, in which we require the government to have these negotiations convened, possibly by the end of February; it could also be March; it is not crucial for me, but that we get started, I think, is absolutely crucial. So these must be my words from here: that we should try to create an infrastructure plan and get some investment going instead of making more reports.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113625	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113630	I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for its very kind speech. That is exactly what I would like to say: that we are trying to land a report where we are trying to gather together on this, not that a lot of work should now be done on desks, let us get rid of it, that is not what I am going to do here. But it's for setting up to get the highlight, among other things. against the nice red house right next to that there's actually a lot at stake; not just this bare number of 26 billion. kr. and the socio-economic figures for each project, for them we have. But we're gonna have to go deeper, and I know there's some work to do. There are some who have made good attempts to get the highlight work offer, but we must also bring the climate effects on the assumption that they are green cars. Because there are some who are going to say: we must certainly not invest in roads, because they are black. And the truth is that it has to be green in the future, so that's the thing that I'd like a spade stick deeper into, and it shouldn't be a long-term desk work. I imagine it will take a month at the most, because we need to start negotiating.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113728	As we also mentioned in the debate, it is good that we have knowledge of the projects that we are launching, both in relation to the climate and to the supply of work ^ or that you choose to use it as a leisure time. I think many people will do the same because they do not waste time on the roads, and I think that is only good; that is to minimize that time. But I just think we have knowledge. In other words, it is clear from the preparatory vvm studies that we can make some good decisions about which road projects should be made. And it says what you can save time. Well, we both know the local project in West Jutland, the project from Herning to Ringkøbing, and it says quite specifically what you can save in time if you drive from Herning to Ringkøbing if there is 2+1 road. So I feel well covered in relation to knowledge. On the contrary, I do not need action and we need to get some projects started.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113808	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113812	Well, I also feel well covered with regard to individual projects. I can pretty much the list from all over Denmark in my sleep. But the idea here is precisely to focus up to our level as transport rapporteurs, that there is really a lot to be done here if we invest wisely in it. And these are the numbers I would like to see. The individual projects are well-lit, and we know what kind of projects we should have built a long time ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113838	I would like to acknowledge that. I also have the job of being a tax rapporteur, who often talks about the supply of labour if you lower taxes. But one also has to think about what it has to do with the supply of work, if one can actually spend time working instead of being in a queue. And you often forget that, that is to say, there are other things that affect people's desire to work just in terms of mobility: will you take a job 100 km away if you have to spend 3 hours on it? You don't want to, but if there's a freeway where you might be able to settle for 50 minutes, then you might want to. So there are some gains in society that need to be part of this debate, and I fully recognise that this is also what you want with this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113908	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And the next rapporteur I can see is here in the Chamber is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204113926	Cow driving is a problem, as in all other cases, where too much is being driven by car. But that Left will spend 2 million. kr. To illustrate a problem which we already have detailed knowledge of today, we find unnecessary. Several analyses have already been carried out which show the consequences of queue driving and, frankly, I do not think we will be able to find a solution to the problem further on another analysis. The 2 million. kr. I would rather use it to look at what we could actually do about the problems we are experiencing out there. Of course, I am not thinking of any more asphalt, which, in the view of Enhedslisten, is a dead end which simply leads to more traffic on the roads and again more cars. We are going another way, and here I might be a little surprised for someone to point to an analysis by Danish Industry. Here it was concluded that if we just get 10%. more on the bike, it will have a positive effect on congestion on the roads, the number of sick days and the economy at all. The number of hours of stress in the metropolitan area alone will fall by 6% and the number of sick days will decrease by 266,000, of which 112,000 will be working days, and socio-economic gains will be 1.5 billion. kr. a year. The Enhedslisten cannot therefore support the proposal, but looks forward to a further dialogue on how to reduce congestion on the roads by providing Danes with real and green alternatives to cars. In addition, I should also like to welcome the SF and say that they cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114103	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114107	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who came to talk about real green alternatives to the car. Does Enhedslisten not recognize that cars will be green in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114120	Of course, in the future we will have green cars, but that does not mean that cars go completely to zero. But the challenge is that if we simply plug green cars onto the roads, it will not change the problems of congestion, nor will it change the fact that, for example, if you build an army highway or start other major motorway projects, it will cause great problems for the nature that exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114143	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114147	Yes, yes, and of course we must take that into account and compensate for it, but it is more that I hear in the debate that, just as we do not recognise that the car will be a green means of transport. Hopefully, the trains of the future will also run on green propellants, but some energy will still have to be used to accelerate the train. So will the Enhedslisten recognise that when we look 15-20 years ahead, the car park will be green and that the roads will thus be green?
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114211	Yeah, but unfortunately it'll be a few years before we get there where all the cars are green. We've been pushing that for too long. But the essence of it is that it does not solve the problems of congestion, because then we will all just keep in line in green cars instead, and it will not have the socio-economic gain that it should have. Therefore, we would much rather look at how we can actually make world-class public traffic and how we can actually create a fine-meshed bicycle path system so that all those who drive short trips can take the bike instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114238	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114242	I fully admit that public transport can be part of the solution to this challenge of queue driving, but probably not the whole solution, because not everyone lives close to a S train station or other things. So it's probably a combination of both, and I actually think that Enhedslisten well knows that it can be. However, I would just like to ask whether the Enhedslisten will be involved in producing a report in which we are instructing the government to convene these negotiations, because after all, it requires us to act in order to have Enhedslisten's wishes for more public transport met. And as long as we are not called for negotiations, we cannot act. So, although we may have different priorities, I think we could meet to get these negotiations going, which we all want to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114323	We have waited a long time, like the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, for these negotiations to start. As I understand from the Minister, the great preparatory work is being carried out, and I think that is worth waiting for. We need a qualified basis in order to be able to create the major infrastructure projects which will last for the next 10 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114343	After all, nobody expects us to be unprepared and not to get ready for the negotiations. But in many of these projects, vvm studies are ready, and they have been doing so for years. It is just before the problem is that they become obsolete and that we need new knowledge. So it's not about us actually just getting started? And then it may be that it takes time to finish it; but as long as we are really just waiting and now we have a motion for a resolution to make reports and other things then nothing will happen, whether it is roads or public transport that you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114418	As I understand the Minister, we must get started within the next few months, and I do not think that is what will make the big difference. So I have a little patience yet to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114428	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114449	Thank you very much, and thank you very much to the Left for making this proposal. I very much acknowledge that. There are several things in this that are important. There's the job offer, which means a lot, a lot. I myself come from a part of the country where we also have large outlying areas, but peripheral areas where there are very, very many companies that export very, very many goods. Therefore, it also means a great deal that we are looking at a better infrastructure in the outermost regions. Be it in South Jutland, where I come from, but actually all over the country. Be it on Lolland, where you look at an advanced ferry rental, so that you can get to and from Langeland with an electric ferry more quickly and therefore can get some mobility across down there. It can be all over the country, and it means a great deal to the cohesion that must be in our country. 26,000 million. kr. We keep in line for the year. It is violent, extremely much; 26 billion. kr. is really a lot of money. It is clear that this should be looked at, and I would really like to stand up and support the proposals of the Left. I think that is a good suggestion. There is a little about the date of 1 July 2021, which may be a little advanced, in relation to when we are at least starting these negotiations, which we hopefully and probably will do once in March, but I am pleased to hear the rapporteur say that it is maximum. had to take a month. That gives me a lot of comfort. This may come as a huge surprise to the many talented people who are sitting in the Chamber today, but I really like numbers, which is why I am able to count to 90. And then I can see that this is coming, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is not going through with, but I am very, very pleased that a report is being made about this. I can sense that there is, so I take a very positive view of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114654	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114718	I think it is a good thing that we are discussing infrastructure investment again. I myself asked the Minister about this at Question Time yesterday. We're sitting a few and tripping a lot, 'cause it's urgent. I am actually quite well dressed, I think, to go to these infrastructure negotiations. We have a fairly good overview of where it is that there is a lack of extension of the road network and what priorities there are in terms of user charges or traffic equality etc. In fact, I think we have a very good overview. So I would actually like to put a little in the slippage of what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said earlier. I think we can draw up a report in which we say that we now want to be called to these debates, because it is urgent. Well, we have motorway sections where there are fatal accidents, and we have motorway sections where there are massive queues. And, as previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, we are losing both working hours and, unfortunately, human lives because this is being dragged on. So let's get started. So we support the fact that we are making a report in which we simply put a big, bold line under the call for these negotiations so that we can get started. That will be the attitude from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114829	Thank you very much. And there are no brief comments, so we are now through the rapporteur's line among those who are present. The last person to speak is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204114847	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank the Minister and my fellow rapporteurs for the relatively positive reception of the proposal and for the debate in it. And this is actually the debate, which it is also important to keep going. For those of us who are passionate about transport policy, and we are doing this to the Transport rapporteurs and the Minister, as a starting point, have a duty to keep it on the agenda here. There is a lot written in the newspapers about all the policy areas in the world, and that is good, but we also have to keep this on the agenda, because there is no doubt that Denmark's mobility is crucial to our growth and our prosperity and thus to our long-term welfare, and we are put in the world to point that out. And that's why I think it's really good that we've had a round around this as warming up for the upcoming negotiations. And we can hear that we're not far apart. In other words, it may well be that there is a difference between what we want and what solutions we want. We are agreed that it is not an either-or. These are combination solutions; they are both and they are coherent transport chains etc. We have commercial transport which we must take into account. We have a passenger transport in which individual transport is strong in rural areas, but where public transport is devastatingly strong in densely populated areas. So there are quite different terms and purposes around the country, and that is all we need to put together in a good deal. So that's fine. But there is still a lot to be done, and that is today's main theme... that our mobility is dangerously low. Well, we can see that. When we lose so many billions a year, it is money that comes out of the treasury, literally, or at least out of the social cake that we could have spent better on something else. But it is also life; it is also about people's lifetime. They sit for far too long in traffic where they could come home earlier to their children or spend a little more time at work if needed. So we need to do something about it, and I am glad we agree on that. I think we agree that it is incredibly important to focus on a coherent Denmark in better balance. And there's infrastructure for that, of course. There was the famous Left Chief Christen Berg back in the 1980s when a possible railway was talked about to Skagen, i.e. between Frederikshavn and Skagen. It was then analysed, some calculations were made, and then these figures showed that it was not a very good idea in economic terms; it was actually a bad return. And then it was that Christen Berg said the famous words: Since I like Skagboes better than national economic calculations, then we need that railroad. And then it came. So it was an example in which at least Denmark was invested for the sake of being connected, and the track to Skagen, which today is a thriving port city with a large business community, has actually been a success. So sometimes we also have to invest in order for our country to be more closely linked. However, what I get out of the debate here, in addition to the fact that we have got the focus on it, is that we agree that, in addition to the bare economic figures in relation to the returns on each project, we must bring to light what is to be taken from the labour supply by making some investments. We need to see what climate effects there are, because we have a queue, because it costs the climate, of course, when the cars stand and burn off propellants without moving forward. And then I will make an attempt to make a proper report that can tie it up here in relation to some goals and positions about this, and which can also help to signal from the outside that we actually agree across parties that Denmark's mobility means a great deal and that in future we are committed to green mobility, and that in future we are committed to binding Denmark even better together, so that all parts of Denmark can contribute with growth and job creation, and not just in the big cities where it is roaring out there at the moment. We need to get all the wagons on the Danish train. So I think it has been a fine debate and now I will try to draft a report which I hope and expect will be welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204115259	There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210204115324	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 9 February 2021 at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website. The meeting is adjourned.
