ParlaMint-DK_20210507100054	The meeting is open. Members of the Folketing Rosa Lund (EL) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary decision that the residence permit should not automatically lapse as a result of a stay abroad. B 277) Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507100126	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507100244	The debate is open. Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507100251	Thank you for that, President. Today we are working together on two motions for resolutions tabled by the government on two Danish military contributions in Africa. I really think it is a little strange that we should work together on them, because these are two very important motions for resolutions to send a great many of our soldiers to Africa. It is about the Gulf of Guinea, where we send a frigate contribution down with a Seahawkhelicopter, a total of about 175 people, and then it is about the Sahel region, where we send down some special forces contributions. It's a team of surgeons, staff members and a national logistical support element. It's the Special Forces contribution that's under Operation Barkhane. We do this in order to promote Denmark's security and interests, and I would like to attach a few words to each of them. Denmark is the world's fifth largest maritime nation, and the right to free navigation is therefore of crucial importance to us. It is, of course, about Guinea, and not least in the Gulf of Guinea, which is very important for both Danish and international shipping. Every day, at least 30-40 Danish ships pass through the Gulf of Guinea on average. Unfortunately, the maritime safety situation in the Gulf of Guinea has deteriorated considerably in recent years, which includes, among other things, the situation in Guinea. has affected Danish shipping companies. Last year approx. 40% of all pirate attacks and up to 95%. of all kidnappings at sea in the Gulf of Guinea. Today, the government is asking the Folketing for consent to a Danish military contribution to the fight against piracy in the area. As far as the second proposal is concerned, unfortunately the situation in the Sahel has deteriorated considerably in recent years. The regions are characterised by violent conflicts, and militant terrorist groups such as the Islamic State and Al-Qaeda are gaining ground. Local security forces have lost control and there is a great risk that terrorist groups will spread to more countries and have more room for manoeuvre. This will increase both the threat of terrorism and irregular migration to Europe and Denmark. In other words, the stability and security of the Sahel region is in the interests of all of us, both the local population and Denmark and the interests of Europe. Denmark is already present in the region. • We have been doing so since 2013 with many transport contributions, aviation contributions and other broad-spectrum contributions. That is why we are asking for military contributions, development cooperation and humanitarian action to be crossed. We have been doing this for many years. The aim is to combat terrorists, prevent conflict and irregular migration, achieve stabilisation and development and uphold human rights and international law, and improve the living conditions of the population. Today, the government is asking the Danish Parliament for consent to send out Danish military contributions to support the so-called Operation Barkhane, including Task Force Takuba. Operation Barkhane is a French-led military operation aimed at combating terrorism and creating stability in the region. The European Special Forces operation, Task Force Takuba, aims to advise, support and accompany the local security forces so that they are able to deal with the terrorist threat themselves. It is this important task that our contribution must help to solve. Denmark and the world are generally faced with a challenging and complex threat picture. We must make sure to be at the forefront when the picture changes and be present where the threats are greatest. With the two military contributions that we have to take a position on today, we can assume a great deal of responsibility and actively contribute to the stability of a conflicting region in the vicinity of Europe. I can say that it is the case that the frigate contribution is due for 5 months from November 2021, and it is the case that it makes very good sense for us to send it out in the winter period, because that is where there is the greatest danger of piracy. In Operation Barkhane, they are to be sent out for 12 months from 1 January 2022. The Social Democrats support the two motions for resolutions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507100720	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507100724	Thank you to the rapporteur and, above all, thank you for pointing out that it really is a mess for us to work together on these two proposals. After all, this is about two completely different military operations, and I think it is muddling an important debate about them. So I very much agree with that and I am glad that the rapporteur also says so. What I would like to ask is the French Operation Barkhane in the Sahel and the Danish participation in it. In fact, as it is now, we know that some of what has been a real, really big problem over the past many years is that the local security forces are both malicious forces and the G5 security forces are being attacked by civilians. A great many civilians have actually been killed by exactly the same forces that Danish soldiers are now going to train. Is that not something that concerns the rapporteur? That worries me a lot, and that is why Enhedslisten votes no to this, I can already now reveal. But is it not the rapporteur's concern that this is actually what Danish soldiers are being sent down to contribute to?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507100824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507100825	Thank you. After all, I know that the Enhedslisten has supported MINUSMA, which is the peacekeeping force down in the Sahel region, and some of them are also helping to find out what we are doing about the attacks that are being made against civilians, because that is where they are, and there are also major disturbances, and that is why we are continuing to be down there. Our special forces must, of course, go down to try to prevent these things too, and then we will also make a real, real effort in relation to developments down there precisely to find out how the civilian population can actually move forward. But it's true that there's a lot of mess down there, but our special forces are coming down there to try to create more peace and stability.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507100911	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507100912	It is just necessary to consider that the special forces that Denmark is now planning to send down to Barkhane, the French-led mission. This is something quite different from the UN force, and I agree with the fact that we in the Enhedslisten have supported the UN effort.But the French operation is an anti-terrorist operation, where you also go in and support the local Malic forces and some of the security forces that are local in the area, and they have time and again been associated with attacks on civilians, killing civilians, rapes, plunderings, and these are actually the same forces that Danish soldiers are now going down and training. That is worrying, both from a human rights perspective and also because it can cause more instability.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507100955	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507100956	It is a broad mission that we need to take down, and that is why we need to do a great many things, and one of the things is to be present and try to look at how diplomatic matters work. It doesn't help if we just stay away, 'cause it just makes it worse. What we need to do is, of course, to ensure that the civilian population can live much safer, so that we do not get a lot of migration to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507101027	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507101045	Thank you for that, President. At least it should not be interpreted in any way by the Left as saying that it is an easy decision to send soldiers into missions, that it has apparently been decided somewhere to put two motions for resolutions together, because it is clear to us that sending soldiers into missions is one of the most difficult, but also the most important, decisions taken by Parliament and that it should never be an easy decision to send Danish soldiers out where they really risk their lives for our benefit. Therefore, it is also really, really important that we simply go in and look at what kind of missions they are. With regard to the anti-piracy mission, I believe that there is a broad consensus in the Folketing that, as one of the absolutely largest civil maritime nations in the world, it is of course also important that we make our efforts to make a police effort so that we can go in and simply ensure that this unfortunately increasing problem of pirate attacks in the Gulf of Guinea is severely reduced. Unfortunately, we have already seen that several civilian ships have been tried on the board, which is why it is only very good that we send a Danish frigate down there and, above all, that we also make sure that there is a military contribution on board that can go in and make sure that if a pirate attack is made on a ship, then we also have the military presence to be able to free the ship again and also the sailors who will then be in danger. So all in all, I think it is really, really good and that it is fine in line with the fact that we also have to take responsibility for us and that we can not only believe that the rest of the world is doing our job all the time, but that we too, from the Danish side, not least in an area where we are so well advanced, namely in relation to shipping, must of course also be present militarily when it is needed. So full support for the motion for a resolution, B 295, on the Gulf of Guinea. This is also in relation to the next proposal, namely with regard to the Sahel. But I also believe that it is clear to everyone that it is, of course, also a harder and harder mission. It is a mission which those of us who have had the opportunity to be in Mali and have seen the situation with our own eyes can also recognise is a mission that is uphill in terms of stabilising Mali. At the same time, however, it is also extremely important that we do everything we can to stabilise the region, because unfortunately the very negative trends that exist, and not least the recent military coup, are something that, of course, helps to destabilise a region, which also has far-reaching consequences for security in Europe and, hence, Denmark. We must never allow the Sahel region to become an area in which various Islamic terrorist groups succeed in gaining ground so that they can use it as a springboard to attack Western targets and potentially also Western targets in Europe. We must never allow that, as in never before. Nor should we ever allow it to be such a lawless area, where it is also possible for migrants and traffickers and others to be able to make different and, from their point of view, safe routes through the Sahel region in order to make these migratant influxes up to Europe. So for the two reasons, it is also important that we take our share of responsibility here too. In fact, I think it is very, very good that we are following up on the many good efforts we have made under UN command in cooperation with our French friends in the past, by doing so again here in cooperation with the French. This must also be seen in the light of geopolitical changes which are also taking place around the world. In other words, although many of us are very pleased that the President of the United States has been replaced, so that it is now President Joe Biden and not President Trump, and that he is also ready to lead the United States in a more positive direction, we are also seeing that the fact that there is a world policeman disappears more and more and that, therefore, in Europe too, we are being forced to step up on the world stage and take our share of responsibility in ensuring world peace, ensuring stability and ensuring the fight against terrorism to an increasing extent, because the Americans are getting tired of running the whole show for themselves. And I have to admit, I understand that. That is why this must also be seen in the light of something that we have already started under the bourgeois government years ago, namely that we must not just see NATO cooperation as the only area where we can be active in such an activist foreign and security policy around the world. We will also have to have good and close cooperation with several different European allies so that we can operate in cooperation with them. And that's what we, among other things. I think that is a very good thing to see with the French, and I think that is a very good thing to do, and at least the Left would like that to be expanded, possibly also in cooperation with others such as the United Kingdom. Great Britain, if necessary. This also proves that, when we are about to start the defence negotiations, Europe must also begin to look at what we can do to ensure that we can operate more independently in international missions and improve on questions of logistics, on base building and all such things, where we in Europe have not been good enough and therefore quite often depend on the presence of the Americans in order to be able to make long-term, large-scale military efforts. So that is one of the things we will certainly be involved in the forthcoming defence negotiations. So summing up: It should never be an easy decision to send Danish soldiers on missions, but we on the Left can wholeheartedly give our hundred percent support that our splendidly skilled Danish people, who are active in the Danish defence, are being sent out on these missions, because they are missions that are really, really important to the kingdom, and they are helping to make a huge difference. So wholehearted support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507101721	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507101724	Thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. After all, we had the pleasure of being on a trip for the Folketing to Mali some years ago. I therefore share the rapporteur's view that this is a very complex situation and a very large country. But the fact that a military operation is doing such a great deal of work, I would very much like to question, because the picture I see is that some terrorist leaders have been knocked down around in these eight years of French presence, but the overall picture is far more chaotic now than it was before. There are many more attacks, many more civilians are killed. And every time a terrorist leader gets knocked out, new ones grow up. In fact, I think we owe it to each other to be honest about this, namely that the situation has actually deteriorated over the eight years of the French anti-terrorist action in the region. I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507101826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507101827	Thank you for that to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. It's always hard to predict the future. What if... I think we had a Libya in Mali. At least none of us want that. That is why it is absolutely right and I share the analysis that there have been very big setbacks in Mali. I mentioned it myself in relation to the military coup at the latest, which, of course, none of us can support. That is why it is important to keep asking: Can we make a difference? And there is just the clear position of the Left that yes, we can. We help to ensure that Mali is as stable as possible. Are we on target yet? No, by no means, and that is why we also hope that we can get other European countries to join in supporting this mission, because there is a need for a greater presence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507101924	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507101926	One of the lessons of the Afghanistan war has actually been that the presence of foreign forces, and in particular the killing of civilians by security forces, both international and local security forces, is one of the most important, what to say, energy for recruitment to terrorist movements. And we actually see very much the same picture in Mali right now, namely that many of those recruited by al-Qaeda and other organisations come from a background of attacks by the local security forces, that is, the Malian security forces. They may have relatives who have been killed, etc. I think that is a huge problem for that effort down there. How does the rapporteur view this? Because I am very concerned that it will be such an escalating spiral of violence that actually exacerbates the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507102008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507102010	I agree with that one hundred percent, and that is why we must also ensure that these soldiers are trained. It is one of the ideas in which I think it is important to educate them, just as if Danish soldiers observe something where you cross the laws of war. Then, of course, it is important that there is a reporting obligation which also Danish soldiers have of course been made aware of also in relation to if French soldiers should do something wrong or some others, what I know, UN soldiers, should do wrong. Fortunately, we also know that this reporting obligation is being used. That, of course, is also why it is important to say that we will not accept attacks on civilians on one side or the other, because we are there to protect them and, above all, we must educate them so that hopefully this will not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507102053	Thank you. There are no more comments here, and then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507102122	Thank you. We are now working together on two of the motions for resolutions tabled by the government. I agree with the rapporteurs who have said that it was probably not a good idea to work together on these matters. These are both important broadcasts. However, we will first confirm that the Danish People's Party supports both the proposal to send military contributions to the Operation Barkhane in the Sahel region and the proposal to send a military contribution to the Gulf of Guinea to combat pirates. Despite the fact that we DF in this way support both proposals, it is with rather greater enthusiasm that we support the contribution of the fleet. I will return to the Sahel, but first the Navy contribution: The Danish People's Party will at any time support the deployment of warships, no matter where in the world it is, if it is about defending Danish merchant ships and their free passage on the oceans. And why are we now in the Danish People's Party so keen on it? People ask: Why is it the Navy's task to sail thousands of kilometres away, whether it is about fighting piracy or about what we experienced when the Imam regime in Tehran suddenly played with the muscles? Is it not much easier and less binding just to let the United States, France or England do what is necessary? And yes, of course it is always wonderful to have allies, but this matter is primarily our own. For when it comes to trading or shipping at sea, Denmark is among the world's biggest players: More than 15%. of all tonnages carried on the oceans are on Danish ships, and Denmark ranks as the world's fifth largest shipping nation, and surpasses both the United States and Britain and Germany. That is why the fleet has a duty, without any request from anyone else, to ensure what is necessary in relation to our merchant ships. The Navy's duty is actually historic, which someone may have forgotten or may never have been told. And therefore, at the risk of sounding like what I am, a dry old National Conservative school teacher, I shall briefly explain here why the river is today called the Navy and is even set in the world. Well, it was in 1510, more than 500 years ago, that Happy King Hans founded the fleet, and thus Denmark became the first country in Europe to introduce a truly standing war fleet. The Norwegian admiral with the festive name Henrik Krummedige And already after 15 years there were 40 large naval vessels ready to sail. The Navy's task was to ensure Danish civil shipping on the oceans, because not only pirates at that time lurked on prey, but also militaryly well-equipped city states such as Lübeck, Rostock, Wismar and Danzig carried out piracy. In the course of history, the Navy's task was multifaceted, but the main thing remained to ensure the free passage of Danish and Norwegian shipping for the kingdom's ships to West Africa, India and the West Indies. The first task of this fleet has never been changed and therefore also applies today's date in 2021. That's why our frigates were naturally present in the Indian Ocean and the Gulf of Aden, when sinister Somali pirates on a stripe incited Danish civilian vessels and took the crews hostage. A strong military engagement in cooperation with other nations ended piracy, and we were on the spot when Danish civilian ships in the Strait of Hormuz and the Gulf of Persia were threatened. We had naval vessels sent to the pirate area, although it took some report from the government to get it started. Thus in 2019 it took as long as 30 days before the government came into operation, and it did not happen on its own initiative or because the historic task of the fleet was taken seriously, but only because England had called for Denmark to send naval vessels. Now I would like to commend the government because, now that Danish merchant ships in the Gulf of Guinea are in latent danger, the Navy is ready to continue and carry out its 500-year-old historic task at short notice. So full support for the Navy's upcoming task. Also the second case that we are dealing with today is the sending of contributions to the Sahel, the Operation Barkhane... can be supported by the Danish People's Party. However, we took reservations when the matter was discussed here in Foreign Policy Name last time. Not in relation to the mission that we are dealing with today, but in relation to the broadcasts which may come at French request, indeed, which are very likely to come. In the Danish People's Party, we are very concerned that our military presence in the region is just as quietly becoming permanent, and so we do not want to continue for years to grow into a conflict that is inevitable, as is happening in Afghanistan, must end with the victory of the Islamists. In addition, the mission for our troops is becoming more and more dangerous. We have been with the French for almost a dozen years, and the situation has not improved year by year, but deteriorated. What is happening with this mission is that our presence is increasing dramatically. It's no longer just a Hercules plane with a handful of soldiers. No, we're talking, among other things. on the deployment of a large number of special troops, and the motion for a resolution states that the Special Forces will have to make independent efforts in order to support the efforts of the Malian forces. There is talk of fighting and offensive action, and a large team of surgeons is on the way. Defence Intelligence assesses the terrorist threat in Mali, Burkina Faso and Niger as being high, and the security situation in the Central Sahel is evolving in an increasingly negative direction. FE further estimates that Danish forces will be attractive targets for attacks by militant Muslims. Changing governments over the past 10 years have explained that our presence reduces the risk of increasing immigration from Africa to Western Europe and has therefore been of the opinion that stability and development in the Sahel are in the interests of Denmark and Europe. I must say quite frankly that I no longer share that view. The military situation in the Sahel has very, very little to do with the number of illegal immigrants into Europe. There is already a mass movement from the region heading towards Europe, and that mass movement can only be prevented, in my view, by the fact that every European country strengthens border controls and does not allow illegal immigration. Fortunately, it has to be said that more and more countries in the European Union have understood the message. Schengen does not exist anymore. In Denmark too, we should make border controls stronger and stronger and thus prevent mass immigration. That's where we should use our powers. However, as mentioned, the Danish People's Party supports both resolutions with reservations about future broadcasts to Mali. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507102943	Thank you. Then there's a comment. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507102946	Normally I think I have noted that the Danish People's Party operates with rather strict limits on when to talk about being Danish and when something is Danishness, but these are obviously limits that are only very strict when it comes to people and not so much when it comes to ships. I would really like to ask the rapporteur, because he is now referring to Danish merchant ships in the area, if it is not quite true that the three Mærsk ships which are here and which have been attacked do not sail under the Danish flag but sail under the Singaporean flag. It is not because there are Danish crew members and so on. along on those ships. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507103022	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507103023	That's also why I didn't say it was under the Danish flag. I haven't used that sentence here. I actually used the words on Danish ships, because it is clear that it is the Mærskrederiet that owns those ships, whether they sail under the flag of Dannebrog or under the flag of other countries. It's a few of them who do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507103043	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507103044	I think that we have a situation here where it is not so much about Danish interests, but where it is about Mærsk's interests, and there I think, frankly, that the Danish People's Party tends to stand on a slightly safer ground in some of the criticisms I think are necessary to travel here. We also have a former captain in the merchant fleet who is out to say whether it might not be a better solution, rather than having to send a frigate and spend so much effort and resources on it, that Mærsk actually stopped sailing in those areas, or that Singapore itself might send something off. It could be something worth looking at. In other words, it is not necessary to sail in the Gulf of Guinea for the international passage, one might say. It's just because it's lucrative for Færsk that you do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507103133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507103134	First of all, I want to ask what's wrong with doing Mærsk's business. I don't have the slightest objection to that. He is one of the great figures of Danish history and got among other things. for the very reason that quite, very few fashioned the Order of Elephants by Her Majesty. So I'd very much like to be known as somebody who's running Mærsk's business. I think it's an excellent company. The second point I want to make is that a military solution is therefore what needs to be done. We saw this very much in the Indian Ocean and the Gulf of Aden, in other words in the presence of many naval vessels, but at the same time also in having armed guards on board. We fought for that for a number of years, and suddenly it is something that is allowed to do if you want to. If the shipping companies so wish, they can hire a few fresh veterans from our military presence around, and then they will be able to hold the pirates rod. So, unfortunately, a military solution is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507103230	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507103255	Firstly, on B 295, the Danish military contribution to the Gulf of Guinea: it is important that Denmark, as the maritime nation that we have always been and to a great extent still are, also takes a great responsibility in the fight against piracy. We have a responsibility to ensure that world trade is not destroyed by pirates' ravages, and this applies to both actual boarding and attacks, with 40%. Of the attacks that have taken place, 95 per cent are in the Gulf of Guinea. In the Gulf of Guinea, the kidnappings that have been carried out, which can almost be said to be the ultimate consequence of piracy, are taking place. But this also applies, above all, to the uncertainty and instability caused by pirates with their mere presence, and it is absolutely essential that we also support the communities that live under the ravages of pirates. Pirates make it impossible for local poor fishermen to live a normal life and even more impossible for them to dream of a better future. The pirates hold some of the world's most vulnerable and poor areas in an iron grip and hold the population hostage here. From the outset, the SF has supported the Danish contributions to the fight against piracy, and we can therefore also support this motion for a resolution. On B 297 on support for Operation Barkhane, I can say that the situation throughout the Sahel is extremely critical. The remnants of the terrible terrorist organisations have found new land fertilised by their totalitarian fascist world view. This affects a region which already has so many problems that it is hardly comprehendable. Extreme poverty, drought, trafficking in human beings, flows of refugees, civil wars and climate change are just some of the most extreme problems facing the region every day, and it is important that the terrorist organisations in the region do not get so much foothold that they can continue to use the region as a marching area for the fight of Islamist warriors for a vulgar caliphate. Therefore, with the support of the SF, Denmark is already contributing to the UN-based MINUSMA operation and Operation Barkhane, to which we are discussing extending the contribution. SF believes this is sensible and we can support the proposal. However, in relation to both proposals, given that we have agreed to them, I would like to add a few words that affect both of them in this respect, and that is a little lectured by the mission in Afghanistan, so that we, as Parliament, will have to ask ourselves how we deal with contributions such as the two contributions to which we have just given our commitment. Is it enough to send frigates, surgeon teams and our best trained special forces? Is the military effort in itself sufficient to solve the problems facing the regions, the problems which have served as perfect fertilizing water to the ground for pirates and terrorists? I would like at some point to have a somewhat deeper and more serious discussion on how to send Danish contributions into the world in future to solve the problems we think we should solve and whether we should not consider what it is we want to leave behind the day we withdraw our contributions back home. If the fishermen's children in the Gulf of Guinea are to have a future that is more secure, then we have a responsibility to change the conditions that have created piracy that we are now fighting with our expensively purchased hardware and, in the worst case, with the lives of Danish soldiers. If the Sahel region, where millions of people live in extreme conditions, should not continue to become an area for totalitarian idiotism, then we must make sure that we do not lose the future of children. Hundreds of thousands of children and young people live as internally displaced persons in the region without access to schools, medicines or other basic rights. That responsibility must be considerably improved and, in my view, we are educating the easiest victims of the blunder of totalitarian thinking when we do not take humanitarian responsibility more seriously. And we must learn so much from the terrible wars in Afghanistan, not least in Iraq, as well as from the fight against piracy in the Horn of Africa, that, while fighting evil, we must also fight the possible return of evil. This is not the last thing you have heard from the SF in that discussion, because there is an obvious risk that, in this context too, we will be sucked further and further into the conflict, that it will be a matter of patching up previous decisions and almost literally surviving from day to day, while the goal will fade into the smoke of the fighting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507103835	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507103839	I would like to hear the SF's rapporteur: if you want to have a serious debate on this and if you want to do something to prevent terrorism and ensure a future for the children of poor fishermen, would it not be an idea that the SF actually started here in Parliament today by voting against military operations and instead of spending the money and effort on humanitarian operations? That's 80 million. kr., it costs to send off this frigate, 179 men, whom you could actually use to help some of the poor fishermen who end up in piracy, to get a different way of life. In relation to the efforts in Mali and when you talk about the French-led action Barkhane: We know perfectly well that the presence of the international forces is helping to support the terrorist movements. We know that the Malian security forces, which Danish soldiers are going down to train, have repeatedly attacked, killed and abused civilians. We are looking into a situation very similar to that of Afghanistan..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20210507103951	Thank you, and please no direct charges. We're not doing that here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507103956	It is simply because we are not as one-eyed as you are in the Enhedslisten. We are not so completely focused on the fact that there is only one tool. The tool on which we can agree here also exists, and it is called development aid, which is called humanitarian aid, and it means a great deal to the SF, and I left it a large part of my rapporteur's speech. But the fact that we are doing this does not mean that we also need to use other methods here and now. The Enhedslisten pretends that there is only one tool, and if you do nothing, do nothing. Yeah, that's exactly what you do. By doing nothing, you do something, too, because then you leave the civilian population to yourself. That is why we are taking responsibility here and now with these motions for resolutions for concrete action. At the same time, however, Mrs Flyvholm knows very well how high the list of development aid is for the SF. These things are connected, and that's not a contradiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507104041	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507104042	We simply have to say that the reality is that the security forces in Mali, for example. Killed more civilians than terrorists have. This is the operation that the Danish side goes in and wants to support, and it is not just one-eyed, but it is simply blind when the SF does not face the realities. I think it is a very, very big problem and the money spent on military action is simply difficult to spend on humanitarian aid too. So it would be nice if we could be more of us who could push for it. It is not because I do not recognise that there may be a need for a military presence, and that is why we have supported the UN mission in the past, for example. Mali, but to be honest, this isn't going in the right direction. There is so much pointing to the fact that it is going as wrong as it has done in Afghanistan, and there I wish the SF had also taken a slightly more critical position. I think that would be beneficial to both humanitarian development and the development of peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507104133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507104134	Then the day should come when I hear there isn't enough money for the Enhedslisten. Well, Enhedslisten says that we are now spending money on it and that there should then be no money for development aid. It is not a restriction I have met in any context in the past from the Enhedslisten, that is to say that we are now spending that money on it and that there is then no money for anything else. I think that the accounts of Enhedslisten can make it work together, and it certainly does in SF's. The fact that we are spending money on this effort does not mean anything in terms of development aid. I would say, then, that it is not a matter of being blind, but that it is a question of now manipulating the Enhedslisten roughly by saying that this proposal is that Denmark should support the fact that malistic forces should attack civilians. On the contrary, it is a question of getting Malic and other forces to behave in accordance with international rules and not helping to make attacks on the civilian population. It's gross manipulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507104217	Thank you. Then we move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507104234	Thank you very much. The Radical Left can also support both resolutions, although it is always with a heavy heart that one decides to send Danish soldiers on missions that will always have a risk in them. This applies not least to the mission that is to take place in Mali, where we get Danish soldiers actively out into the field, even if it is training they have to do. That's why you have to think very carefully. I think we all feel that today. That is why it is also important to have the debate on why we are doing it. When it comes to piracy, we believe radically that there is a reasonable obvious need for protection for the crews currently sailing in the Gulf of Guinea to which we, as a major maritime nation, must contribute. It is also our citizens who work on the boats. It is also our citizens who are in dangerous situations if we cannot protect ships. We attach great importance to this being done in active diplomatic cooperation with the countries bordering the Gulf of Guinea. This is, of course, essential in order to be able to do it properly and effectively and also to avoid complications occurring along the way, even if it is complicated and we all know that from a political point of view. The second proposal goes further and with greater risks for those we are sending out. There are three reasons why the Radical Left can support that proposal. One is that there is an obvious need, not only for us to keep the terrorists down so that they do not grow in strength, but also to protect the civilian population in the area where they are daily subjected to terrible attacks with terrible consequences. It is true, as Mrs Flyvholm points out, that there have been serious problems with the behaviour of the Malian army in these struggles. Unfortunately, we often see this in African states where soldiers are neither properly trained in the laws of war nor, for that matter, in the discipline which is absolutely essential in order to be able to act with the authority and dignity and properness that is required. I see nothing more than the answer to that question, among other things. is to train the soldiers in exactly the laws of war and in how to behave properly as a soldier, and in how to take care of your own population. In fact, I would like Denmark to participate much more, as the UN also wants, in the training preventively by UN soldiers in Africa precisely in these areas. So I think that exactly the problems that have been are calling for it. It is also true that it has sometimes been seen that there are challenges with the French forces. It has been a while, but it has certainly been public that there have been problems. We have attached great importance and have also understood that this is something that the French take very seriously and that Denmark is, of course, actively engaged in a dialogue with France and all other countries down there about how important it is that the international forces respect all the rules and contribute to the understanding of the importance of the mission, the fight against terrorists and the restoration of peace in the country. That is precisely why we see the need, and that is why we can support it. The second reason why we can support it is that there is a solid legal background in terms of international rights and mandate. After all, the United Nations is behind the entire Mali mission, and Mali itself wants active help. When it comes to this, I forgot to say before our frigate and the fight against terrorism, it's self-defense. So we are on a legal basis of international law. The third reason is that this effort is not alone. There is a risk of that, I fully agree with Mr. Karsten Hønge in, and it is always there that having military presence also in some situations can exacerbate the problem rather than solve it. The best thing we can do to try to avoid this is, of course, to secure a large number of other efforts in parallel with this: a development policy track, a humanitarian trail and a political and diplomatic trail to ensure that the region supports the political achievements and the fragile peace process that has been negotiated in Mali. Those are hard balances. There's no reason to hide anything else. I also think it is fair that one can take the view that it is better that Denmark stays completely out of this, but it is just not an answer to the problems that are there either, one should not imagine that Denmark does not contribute to anything anywhere. So I cannot provide a guarantee that everything will go well and succeed in this mission, but I can say that we have been convinced that we will have to take co-responsibility to try to solve those problems through an active action in which this is part of the answer, but certainly not the only one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507104756	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507104758	Thank you. I have two questions. The first is: Can it not be quite difficult to assess what the people you train then go out and do? It is no more than six months since we saw that some of the soldiers who had been trained by Denmark were actually behind the coup in Mali. I should first like to hear the rapporteur confirm this. Then there is the question of the fact that it is quite obvious that there is a need for political processes that can change, you might say, conditions in both Mali and neighbouring countries, if the underlying causes of terrorism are to be eliminated. The French say this quite clearly, in other words, that political reforms and more democratisation are so necessary. And there you just have to say: there you are lagging far behind, and it is not a place where I find that Denmark is doing nearly enough to contribute to that process. This is not a place where I see much happening in terms of improving political stability and in terms of involving more population groups, which is one of the key issues. How does the rapporteur view this? Is it a good process, or are we really awfully far behind there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507104909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507104910	We are certainly not in the finish line. Fortunately, we have an international peace agreement as a backdrop for this, and it is true that there has also been a military coup along the way, but none of the factions who are fighting for power in Mali have wanted us not to be there. Everyone recognises that there is an international presence as a prerequisite for some stability and security for the civilian population, especially in the areas of conflict. So does the United Nations. So I just don't think you have to imagine that if we took our good clothes and went home tomorrow and left Mali alone, Mali, and especially the civilian population, was a better place. Can I make guarantees about what the soldiers we train do afterwards? Of course I can't, but what I can guarantee is that if we don't try to train them, including in the laws of war, we'll never change the state of the Malic military. So it's about the Malian military agreeing to this kind of training. You may laugh about that, but one of the reasons why the laws of war are interesting is that it is good for human rights, it is good for civilians, and it is usually good for the military effect. So things are connected here. In other words, if you have a military objective, it is actually a good idea to behave properly and properly towards the people from whom you ultimately depend on the support of. So I am not going to play Comic Ali and say that this is an easy task or that we have come a long way with the political process. However, I have the impression that the Danish Embassy is doing a rather strenuous job and is actively participating in the UN's efforts to secure the political process that we all agree on is, of course, crucial to achieving a goal in Mali.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507105056	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507105058	It is quite obvious that this is not an easy task, and it is a very, very complex picture. But I think it is absolutely essential to bear in mind that the French, too, are actually saying: if there is no political change, it is absolutely impossible to win this fight against terrorism because new ones are coming all the time. So it's absolutely crucial. That is why I think it is a very reasonable question to ask: are we doing enough on the Danish side, and indeed on the international side, to contribute to political change? I do not mean it, but I would like to hear a slightly clearer answer to it. Finally, there is the question: can the rapporteur not confirm that Denmark has trained some of the generals who were also behind the coup six months ago in the National Guard in Mali?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507105142	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507105143	I simply cannot answer that at the moment, i.e. the latter, because I am not really aware of that. It is possible that I have been told at some point, but if so, I cannot remember, i.e. whether we have specifically trained them or not. That part of political stability, it can be said, is roughly restored now, but on the question of whether we are doing enough, I would say: No, I am not sure of that, and I would very much like to see the European Union playing a more active role overall and putting pressure on it. I think we can then use it, that we are here, to put the pressure and demand that the opposing political parties in Mali, of course, should pull themselves together and make sure that they do more for their people than for themselves. I agree 100% with Mrs Flyvholm on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507105225	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507105250	There are a lot of papers to bring up here when we have two proposals. In relation to the issue of sending a frigate to the Gulf of Guinea, I can say that we in the Enhedslisten do not support the proposal. First of all, we believe that the most effective way to combat piracy would be to put more effort into ensuring alternative life opportunities for some of the poor fishermen and others who could be recruited for piracy, and to cooperate with some of the states in the area to ensure more stability. We think that would be a more appropriate way of using that power and that money. Having said that, I also think it is necessary to question whether we are really enforcing Danish interests here. There could also be other operations that would make more sense. We also often talk about whether we get patrolled the waters around Greenland well enough, and there are all sorts of other things where I think one can see that there is more obvious interest on the Danish side. The three ships mentioned here are not Danish ships in the sense that they sail around under the Danish flag and with Danish crew members and something like that. It is Mærskships that sail under Singapore's flag with crews from all sorts of other countries. And they might as well sail somewhere else, if it wasn't because it's very, very lucrative to lie and sail in exactly those waters. So I think you might want to limit yourself a little bit before you spend so much money and so much resources going on Mærsk's business. However, this is a debate which we will also have the opportunity to take during the legislative procedure here, and I also have some supplementary questions on it. But the most central issue here, I think, is the issue of the efforts in the Sahel, because I think it is quite obvious to all of us that the situation in both Mali and neighbouring countries, in Burkina Faso, Chad, Niger and so on, is really, really serious. There is total chaos; there are major problems with trafficking in human beings; there are major problems with terrorist attacks; there are very major problems with attacks on the civilian population. This is an extremely unstable situation we have in the area. And that is very, very untenable, first and foremost for the people who live in the area, but of course it also poses problems in relation to the flows of refugees and crime such as trafficking in human beings, for example. So it's absolutely crucial that we're interested in looking at how to go in and help stabilize these areas. In fact, I think it is very obvious that we in Denmark should also be interested in this. But we cannot support the government's proposal here. It is about the fact that this proposal will send down Danish Special Operations Forces and support the French mission Barkhane, which is both in Mali and neighbouring countries. And so there are a number of problems in doing so. We have to look at the fact that in the eight or so years that the French Special Operations Forces have been in the region, the situation has not improved. Some tactical progress has been made which has succeeded in setting down key terrorist leaders, but experience has been that every time terrorist groups have shot up again, also stronger, and recruitment to terrorist movements has increased during that period. We have just seen a spread, one can say; that is, where it started most in northern Mali, it has now moved more down to the middle of Mali and to neighbouring countries. So there have been no fewer fighting; there have been no fewer terrorist groups; there have been no fewer attacks; there has been no more stability. On the contrary, it has to be said that political developments, particularly in Mali, but also in neighbouring countries, have been very, very problematic lately. Well, last time we saw the coup in Mali last year, there are no signs in the sun or the moon that this is going to be improved. We are seeing more and more reports which also point to the fact that the local people simply perceive the Western forces as being linked far too much to the very unpopular governments and local forces in the area, and that it actually provides a basis for recruitment for terrorist movements, as we have seen in Afghanistan. More and more experts are starting to draw parallels between what we see in Mali and the experience of Afghanistan. And one of the most important experiences in Afghanistan was that it could be seen that where there has been a very severe repression of the local population or very violent attacks on the local population by either local government forces or international forces, there is also where it supports the terrorist movements. And that's exactly the same thing we see here. I just think that we need to be much more aware of what is actually going on, especially on the part of the Malian security forces. There are so many reports of attacks on civilians, killing civilians, and if you think that we can train ourselves out of that, I have to admit that it is unfortunately a little bit naive. It is clear that when Danish soldiers go out into the world, one must also help to communicate how to comply with the laws of war and human rights; it should always be a very central part of it, but to think that one can seriously solve the absolutely fundamental problems that exist, that is, the problems of the fact that large populations in Mali are simply harshly oppressed, and that the central government and the army go hard on some of these groups of people, are naive, and this has not been adequately addressed at all. And there is no indication that this is improving. So I think that Danish people ought to be more critical of this before sending out Danish soldiers. I simply think it will be very, very difficult to say that there will be none of the soldiers who have been trained on the Danish side who will be behind attacks on the civilian population. And we can see it now too. I can say to Martin Lidegaard that I have at least read several articles that document exactly this because the National Guard, which was involved in Cuba, has actually been trained by Denmark. So we just never really know which way we are going to go afterwards, and in comparison with the fact that there is in fact nothing to suggest that military action is going to bring us to the end of the problems we are facing here, saying that Denmark should play a much more political role and not go militaryly in support of the French operation here. Last year, the French President himself said that it is absolutely crucial that we have some political changes in these countries if we are to find a solution to the cases of terrorist attacks and the instability we see. But I just don't see that as our priority. It would be quite obvious that, instead of saying that this is where we are going to try to contribute to political stability. One might well ask oneself: if that is one of the things that would really help, why is it that we have so many soldiers from the special forces now? I cannot help thinking that it also has a little to do with France being the new military superpower in Europe and that Denmark would like to go out and do some operations where we are allyed with them. But I do not think this should be the characteristic of our foreign policy line. In fact, I think we should try to go in and do some of the things that would be most useful in terms of peace and stability, and so there is a great deal to point out that this is not the case. I would like to conclude by saying, as several people have said, that I too find it very regrettable that these two proposals are being discussed together, and I have also heard from the Minister that this is actually a problem. I think we should agree that we do not do that in the future. Anyway, I'm going to write to the Danish Parliament about that, so we're going to separate these things. And I would like to make one more request in relation to the UN Mission MINUSMA. It is not in this motion for a resolution, but there is a commitment that you want to send out the transport aircraft again, but at the same time the recommendation from the government is that we should not deal with it here in the Parliamentary Chamber and that you would just run it over a three-year-old mandate. In fact, I would also like to call for a debate on this in the Chamber, because I think it is the most proper and proper way to do so when we talk about the envoy of our forces for international missions. So it is in any case a call that it should also come by the Folketing, so that everything like works properly and correctly. After all, a number of things have happened over the last three years. But we cannot support these proposals on the part of the Enhedslisten. I think that we need to go a more political way and a more preventive way, and it would benefit peace much more if we had the courage to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110242	There are brief comments. Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110247	Now, Enhedslisten said that military contributions are not helping we talked about the fleet and Guinea Bay. I also believe that if Enhedslisten had said something in the opposite direction, I would have fallen dead. So now you have a way of getting me killed, if it is: Enhedslisten supports military contributions. I just have to say that the problem with the Enhedslisten is that these military contributions worked in the Gulf of Aden in the Indian Ocean. There is virtually no piracy anymore, for fleet vessels were deployed massively. And the most important thing was these sharpshooters on the civilian ships that we were very concerned about at the time when, for example, they were. could put the engine out on the pirate boat that came, without necessarily having to shoot people who came sailing. So the military contribution worked, and I would like confirmation of that. There's no piracy in that area anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110348	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110351	Although we may have a lot of disagreements sometimes here in the Danish Parliament, I do not really want to kill the rapporteur, so I would also like to say what to say, nuance and acknowledge that, of course, there has been an effect of some of the military operations in relation to the fight against piracy. I fully agree with that. But in relation to the effect of making sure that some of the poor fishermen who end up, not as the backers, but as, what to say, some of the lower-ranking pirates around: the effect of actually giving them an opportunity for alternative employment in the fisheries sector, for example. By stopping overfishing in some areas and such things, also has extremely great effect. And I think that is one of the things that we should look at much more from the Danish side as a matter of priority. For it is a longer-term vaccination against piracy, instead of having to send the fleet and spend so much money and so many people on something that everything else just doesn't affect very many Danish ships.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110452	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110456	There was another point I made, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, and it was something about the fact that those Mærsk ships can simply not sail the Gulf of Guinea. I mean, it was something like that. Why would they do that? They have to know where they're going. So, the Enhedslisten is no longer in favour of us having international waters where all people and all ships can sail without having to be threatened in every way? So just one answer: why in all the kingdoms and countries in the world should Mærsk not sail the Gulf of Guinea?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110531	I referred to a former captain who had also said that it would be one of the safest ways to avoid attacks on these Mærsk ships: Simply that you didn't sail those waters where it's most dangerous. This is a risk which shipping companies always have to deal with themselves: where is the most dangerous? I very much agree with the rapporteur that the objective must then be that it is safe to sail everywhere. But you just have to look at how we think we're gonna get there best. I think we should get there best by fighting some of the underlying causes of piracy instead of sending a Danish frigate down to a mission where you have to say that it is a fairly large sea area that you are going to cover. It's probably not because you save the whole situation with one Danish ship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110609	Thank you. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110614	It's just to get some facts into the debate. Because you get the picture that it's a couple of ships sailing around down there. But we are talking about 40 Danish-operated ships a day in the Gulf of Guinea, which in total actually transports goods for approx. 10 billion kr. a year. So when Enhedslisten wants us to understand that it obviously does not have an impact on Denmark, I have to say that it has a huge impact on Denmark. That is why this is the question of whether we want to solve a police task in which some criminals are attacking Danish targets. Alternatively, as Enhedslisten suggests, you can just stop sailing there and everything else and miss out on all this money, but we can also solve our task as it is, namely that when there is lawlessness, then of course we have to put it down. It is not the case that the police in the area where the rapporteur lives, if there is lawlessness, say: no, it is too dangerous, you better live somewhere else. Fortunately, the world doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110716	So I would like to ask the rapporteur back: how much of the money to which the rapporteur refers here is actually going to pass Denmark as such? I fully agree that this serves Mærsk's interests, and I am also sure that there has been a very, very powerful lobby from Mærsk to various parties here in the Folketing and the government that you should start this, and I have no doubt for a moment that they will be happy if you do so. But quite frankly, how much of the money from the shipping that the rapporteur is raising here will end up in our common box? I just think it is fair to ask that back when the rapporteur is now dropping the billions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110759	I'm not dropping any billions on the field. These are facts, which is why it is of course also the fact that it is not Mærsk alone who has 40 ships every day through the Gulf of Guinea, but that it is a large number of different Danish companies that all of them pay taxes in Denmark, and it may well be that Enhedslisten thinks that we have money trees around the world that we can just pick from • Sometimes you think that when you see Enhedslisten's economic policy • but we don't. Therefore, this Danish interest, which is very, very much at stake, is of course also important, because if we don't go in and solve this lawlessness and get rid of it, it will cost Denmark. And Enhedslisten's answer to that is that we just have to sail some other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110838	I think it could be really, really interesting here in the legislative work to clarify how much money actually comes into our common fund here in Denmark on this, it is certainly very interesting. Because it is not only Danish companies, but also Mærskships that sail under the flags of all sorts of other countries and in various exciting business designs. So I think it would be relevant to get that information on the field, and let's take it. Having said that, however, I agree with the rapporteur that the objective is, of course, that it should be safe to sail on all seas in the world. Of course. That is our ultimate goal, and I simply believe that what we could best do was to go in and try to deal with some of the underlying causes of piracy instead of just going in and treating symptoms and spending as much resources to send a frigate down there, which everything else will, after all, have a limited effect in such a vast ocean as we have here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110930	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507110934	I simply need to know whether it is the view of the Enhedslisten that the best thing the international community could do in Mali was to pull all forces home, that is simply to withdraw all the peacekeeping, training, logistical support that is there today, home and left Mali alone, apart from humanitarian assistance. Is it like the scenario that Enhedslisten wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111001	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111005	No, that's not the scenario that Enhedslisten wants. I think it is quite obvious that there is a need for both international and Danish presence in Mali and also in the countries around it. We have from Enhedslisten's side, for example. also supported the UN mission that is down there. I still think that makes a great deal of sense to do, and I think that we also need to scale up our political and humanitarian commitment in the region. So no, I don't think we should just pull out, but I think we have to question whether we are doing the right thing. And there is our analysis that we do not do so with the French-led military operation in the area, because it has such a huge impact on the civilian population, because there are so many problems, including the Malian military and the attacks on civilians, because there are so many human rights issues and because we can see that it really increases recruitment to these terrorist movements that there is the international presence in relation to the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111054	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111056	Okay. So the Enhedslisten believes that, overall, the civilian population will be better off pulling out exactly this operation completely, which is intended to train the Malic forces in the laws of war and in a more humane treatment of the population, and to protect the very same people against attacks by terrorists, that is, the Barkhane operation stopped, and that all the soldiers who today protect the civilian population went home to France and Denmark and where they now come from or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111128	There I simply have to correct the rapporteur's view of what Barkhane is about. Barkhane is primarily an anti-terrorist operation. It is not the protection of civilians that is its main purpose. In fact, there are a large number of civil society organisations in Mali and in the countries around that have just called for this, namely that they would like civil protection to become much more central to military action. That's the kind of thing I think it's gonna take. Then we can discuss it, but as it is now, it is not the protection of civilians that is central to Barkhane, and that is precisely one of the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111159	Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111203	So, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is extremely important for the SF, and that is why it was a great deal in my rapporteur's speech that the long-term effort, the one that is supposed to remove the background to recruitment for terrorist movements, is development aid, humanitarian interventions and so on. I fully agree with the Enhedslisten. Where I am truly puzzled is when Mrs Flyvholm comes to say, and she did so several times, what the most effective will be. Well, that may be true in the longer term, but how does Enhedslisten come to say that because it is the long-term objective and that it is the long-term action that must mean something, we can fortunately avoid any kind of responsibility here and now by saying that we need to do something here and now? Or will the Enhedslist really just leave the people to themselves, to corrupt governments, to a military that does not respect human rights and to terrorists? In other words, we cannot, I think, separate what the long-term objective is and that the people here and now need the help which, among other things, is needed. are expressed both in the UN mission and in Operation Barkhane. What need is there to separate it, other than that one will not take responsibility? And that reference to the fact that the money spent there cannot be used elsewhere, I simply cannot take seriously when it comes from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111318	It is clear that Enhedslisten would like to raise development aid no matter what, but it is also a fact that more and more money is being spent on military and less and less on development, and that is also a direction Denmark is going in. And here SF had an opportunity to team up with the rest of us in order to try to get it in a better direction. In relation to Mali and the whole Sahel region, we need to be present, but we need to be aware that what is happening right now, and I am not talking about the UN mission, because I think it is very important to separate the two things from Barkhane, who is a French-led anti-terrorist operation, led by, among others. The foreign legion, and also in cooperation with the local forces around these countries, has time and again been linked to human rights violations and is widely criticised by civil society organisations for precisely not focusing on the protection of civilians. There is a report on the report which actually says that the security forces have killed more civilians than the terrorist movements have and that it provides the basis for recruitment to the very same terrorist movements that they want to combat and that we all agree that we want to fight. We simply cannot close our eyes to that. There is more and more pointing out that this is heading in a direction that we have also seen in Afghanistan, and that is precisely one of the things I would like us to be able to do differently. And I think we owe that to the civilian population in Mali as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111438	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111441	In other words, the very stories that Mrs Flyvholm tells us about the behaviour of the Malian military confirm the importance of ensuring that we make a contribution that will help to change the behaviour of the Malian military towards the people. I want to deal with something quite different now, and that is that I am a little fascinated by the fact that Mrs Eva Flyvholm is constantly talking about it being Danish flags, Danish crews, Danish ships, and that Denmark is not getting anything out of it financially. What is the new fascination that it should be Danish in relation to the Gulf of Guinea? Isn't this about having free international shipping routes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111515	That is true, and I also think that we should have an international commitment, even if it does not serve Denmark's narrow interests. But frankly, it is being presented here and I think it does both in the motion for a resolution and also when I have heard the rapporteurs speak as if it is very much in Danish interest that we are here. And I just want to question that. I fully agree that it serves Mærsk's interests. I do not think that it serves Denmark's interests wider. And you just have to be honest about what this is. Is it foreign policy, or is it trade policy? I very much believe it is trade policy, and then let us just put it straight.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111550	Thank you. There will then be no further comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur. Sir. Mads Andersen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111615	Thank you for the floor, President. I am filling in today for the rapporteur, Niels Flemming Hansen, who is at the second service, as they say. I would also like to start by saying that when one's parliamentary political career is still gone in its first month and one usually discusses city council policy at Køge City Hall ^ it is a slightly different matter to be thrown into. I guess I didn't say too much. I think that very good has already been said about this proposal. And I also share the thoughts of several of the other rapporteurs that sending out Danish forces is never an easy decision. However, it is usually necessary when we do so. I'd like to start with that. There are plenty of arguments, both in terms of security policy and international considerations, but certainly also in terms of Danish glasses. As the comments on the proposal also state, almost half of all pirate attacks took place in 2020 in exactly the Gulf of Guinea, where we therefore have up to 40 Danish operated ships sailing every day. So it is not just something that concerns the international community, but also Denmark in particular. The Gulf of Guinea is important for Danish and international shipping, and since it is here with what has also been mentioned sometimes that Denmark is the world's fifth largest maritime nations, it is necessary here to be free to sail in international waters crucially important for Danish jobs and the Danish economy. That is why, of course, it is also extremely important to ensure that there is that security out there. As far as B 297 is concerned, every time we can limit or stop violent conflicts, which unfortunately tend to strengthen international terrorist groups, we make a difference. And regardless of how we turn it around, the security risk that exists in the Sahel region must also pose a security risk for the rest of Europe and the rest of the world, and indeed for Denmark as well. In relation to some of the backward steps that have been taken in this region in relation to the local forces, I would also like to say that I find it difficult to see that there may be two views that it is, of course, even more important that we as a nation support the efforts that are being made and try to make a difference in order to help civilians and help in the local area. The Conservative People's Party supports both proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111837	Thank you. Is it Mrs. Eva Flyvholm who's been intruding? You gotta be in your place. It's not like that when you think you have to move forward in the ranks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111905	I'm sorry. Full respect for the fact that this is a little different from the town council in Køge, and I also think that we are a little less in agreement than some time we discussed something with more training places in Køge. So I will not go into the foreign policy with the rapporteur so much. But I'm gonna ask you a question anyway. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned that this is also about Danish jobs, in other words protecting Danish jobs. What are some Danish jobs we really have to protect? It is not the case, for example. Danish crews are on board these ships. What are some jobs that are more specifically thought about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507111952	Thank you. I actually think that, and I also think that the rapporteur of the Left was quite well aware of this in her questions to Mrs Flyvholm that, regardless of how we turn it and how we turn it, I do not really care whether it is one Mærsk ship that sails around the Gulf of Guinea or another shipping company's ship that sails around. It is very much about having Danish interests sailing around this bay, and moreover, Danish employees can also work on other shipping companies' ships, which are not necessarily Danish. And I also know that Danish sailors work on our ships sailing around down there. So I actually think it's all about whether you really think this is, what can you call it, to suck up for the Danish shipping companies. I don't think it is. I think it is to defend Danish interests, and it is both in terms of security, but indeed also in relation to our business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507112037	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507112039	I think that is a fair enough consideration, one might say. But it's just to get a little bit more reality into this discussion of what it really is for some interests. It is always a priority when we choose where we want to send Danish forces. What kind of tasks are we going to do? It is always a priority where it makes the most sense in terms of security and what else is gained from it. I still think that we owe it to us to get a clearer overview of this, because I think that the picture of how much this serves Danish interests, if I'm to be honest. However, we have the opportunity to clarify that in the committee work as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507112116	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507112120	It sounds like there are some questions coming in relation to that particular part, so I think that I am being elucidated. But it is also to repeat that if it was just one Mærsk ship that sailed around there, then I still think it is to defend Danish interests, and that is why we must of course also be in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507112133	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507112150	Thank you. The Gulf of Guinea is important for Danish and international shipping. As the world's fifth largest maritime nation, the right to free navigation is crucial for Denmark. On average, 30-40 Danish-operated ships pass through the Gulf of Guinea on a daily basis. The Danish presence is an important source of employment and prosperity for both countries in the region and for Denmark. Maritime safety suggests that the situation in the Gulf of Guinea has deteriorated significantly in recent years. There was a significant negative development for the Danish shipping companies. By 2020, about 40% of the population was found in the EU. of all reported pirate attacks worldwide taking place in the Gulf of Guinea. Up to 95%. of all kidnappings at sea in 2020 took place in the Gulf of Guinea. Pirates are increasingly attacking all types and sizes of merchant ships and fishing vessels, and still further off the coast. There is therefore a great need for further piracy in and around the Gulf of Guinea. That is why New Citizens also support motion for a resolution B 295 on the sending of Danish military contributions up to approx. 195 people. Then there is the second question: B 297 on Mali and the Sahel region. The conflict in the Sahel region escalated in 2012. Since then, Denmark has supported international military interventions in Mali and the wider Sahel region. The aim of the overall effort was to combat terrorism from the outset. The aim was also to prevent instability, conflict and irregular migration. In addition, the aid had to contribute to the long-term development of the region. The overall objective was therefore that the Sahel region should be able to take greater responsibility for its own security and development within a short period of time. But the target is not in sight. The current situation is now about more chaotic in the Sahel region than in the past, despite the military support given to the region by Denmark and other countries and organisations. There is no prospect of peace and stability in the area. If New Citizens are to support the deployment of Danish soldiers, it must be in Danish interest. New citizens therefore see no reason to use more military support in the Sahel region. Then it has been stated as an argument that it is in Denmark's interest because the area is a significant country of origin for irregular migrants. I've checked the numbers. The number of asylum seekers who have arrived in Denmark over the last seven years, that is to say, together, is ten in Mali, i.e. in a total of seven years. From Burkina Faso, three have arrived. And from Niger one has arrived. That's 14 too many. However, compared to Syria and Afghanistan, for example, the figure is very small, and this cannot justify a Danish military effort in the area either. New citizens therefore do not support B 297. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507112451	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507112455	I do not want to enter into any longer debate, but I do not believe that any politician has said that Mali should be the country of origin of quite a lot of refugees and migrants. What they have said, on the other hand, and what is the facts, is that Mali is a transit country for very, very many migrants. Because that's what the facts are. And the fact is that if we do not do anything about lawlessness and so on, there will be smugglers who will simply continue to use Mali as a transit country. That means you travel through Mali, but you don't come from there. And that is the challenge, because I believe that I share the position of the New Citizens' Party one hundred per cent, namely that we must put an end to illegal migration. And we will have to do so in order to put an end to trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507112537	Thank you. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507112541	In new citizens, we do not believe that we should solve the problems by sending a military mission to Africa, but that we should solve the problems in Europe. We simply have to reject these asylum seekers who come to Europe and thus reject the asylum seekers who come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507112554	Thank you. No one else wants to comment. There is no rapporteur here from the Liberal Alliance, nor from the Christian Democrats, so that is why it is the Foreign Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507112618	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking you for the good debate that I think we have had here today and also to welcome Mr. Mads Andersen as deputy rapporteur for Conservatives in this debate. After all, the first proposal is to guarantee the right to free navigation in the Gulf of Guinea. Denmark has a special responsibility here as the world's fifth largest maritime nation, as several have pointed out. Sir. Søren Espersen was interested in the proud history of the fleet and Denmark's proud history as a global maritime nation. And that is important, i.e. the role that we also have today and the importance that shipping has for Denmark. And the rules and laws that apply at sea must be observed. It is also about ensuring that militant Islamist groups with close ties to the Islamic State and al-Qaeda do not gain a foothold in the Sahel. This is the second part of what we are discussing here. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentioned it. This is a battle both for the local people in the area, but also for our own security and security in Denmark. The two motions for resolutions put forward new and significant military efforts, which will primarily benefit the local population, but which will also contribute to Danish security, economics and security. This is all important to our interests. First of all, I would like to make a few comments on B 295 on the Danish military contribution to the Gulf of Guinea. We have seen a very worrying development in the Gulf of Guinea with several attacks on Danish-owned merchant ships and other nations' merchant ships. Today it is estimated that more than four out of five kidnappings at sea are taking place there, and unfortunately we have seen an increased use of violence in connection with pirates' attacks, and there are on average between 30 and 40 Danish-operated ships sailing through the bay on a daily basis, so Denmark has significant maritime and commercial interests at stake. And it is important that we make an active effort to create a secure framework for our ships, but also for seafarers working on board ships, in terms of their safety and safety. Against this background, the government has tabled a motion for a resolution on a new ship's contribution to the fight against piracy in the Gulf of Guinea. With the Danish ship's contribution, we are helping to take the lead in the fight against piracy in the area. Hopefully, we can also help to promote stronger international action against piracy in the Gulf of Guinea. There is a need for concerted action and international cooperation if we are to achieve lasting results. That is why we will strengthen the close dialogue with the coastal states, in other words our international partners, in order to address the challenges that exist. As early as the beginning of the year, the Government strengthened its efforts for maritime security in the region, not least by appointing the Special Representative, who is bringing together countries with interest in the region to strengthen international action against piracy. And I would like to stress that the military contribution goes hand in hand with our stabilisation efforts in the area where we are working with relevant coastal countries to strengthen capacity in the field of development and security. Sir. Karsten Hønge mentioned how important it is to combat the causes of piracy, i.e. the underlying causes. We are doing a great deal here too. And we are focusing on the long-term efforts that will enable the coastal states of the Gulf of Guinea to ensure safety. I would like to make a few further comments on B 297 on Danish military contributions to the Operation Barkhane in the Sahel region. The situation in the Sahel region is characterised by instability, a growing presence of militant Islamist groups with close ties to the terrorist groups Islamic State and al-Qaeda. Recently, with the covid-19 pandemic combined with extreme poverty, the enormous population growth and climate change, we have seen that it has enhanced instability and the acute humanitarian crisis. In Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso alone there are almost 2 million internally displaced persons. The very unstable situation affects the security situation throughout the Sahel region and shows signs that terrorist groups want to spread their activities to the coastal states of the Gulf of Guinea. If it succeeds, the terrorist threat to the West must also be expected to rise. The Sahel countries have stressed that they want to take greater responsibility for their own security and development, but that there remains a great need for international military and civilian support. Since 2013, Denmark has contributed to the international military interventions in the Sahel region, and the Government now wants to strengthen its efforts with, among others, the following: forces to the European Special Operations Force Task Force Takuba during the French-led counter-terrorism operation in the Sahel region, namely Operation Barkhane. Task Force Takuba aims to advise, support and accompany Malian defence and security forces to enable them to deal with the terrorist threat posed by the terrorist groups in the Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso border area. And I would also like to emphasise that this is an effort that will involve a not insignificant risk to our people, as many have also been. A Danish contribution to Task Force Takuba will include: support the efforts of local partner units during combat operations and offensive deployments. This is an effort with a strong focus on human rights and international humanitarian law in cooperation with local partner entities. These various risks have been carefully considered by the government and we will, of course, do everything we can to deal with and prevent them, just like our close European allies, who are already contributing to Task Force Takuba, are already doing so today. For the government, it is crucial that we from the Danish side contribute to stabilisation and development in the Sahel. After all, instability and terrorist groups do not disappear by themselves. This requires some to take responsibility and make an effort. There is no doubt that the situation would be even worse if Denmark and our partners who support the Sahel countries were not there, and that is what we have been debating here today. With the alternative, that is, if we were not there, we would see a serious deterioration in the situation. Fortunately, we are not alone; it is important to emphasise this. We stand with the United Nations, the European Union, many European countries, the United States and a large number of other Allied countries. We are working closely with those partners, including: in the Sahel Coalition, which aims to ensure that civilian and military interventions are coordinated and mutually supportive. This also means that international aid has a scope in which we can make a difference together. The major and complex problems in the Sahel require long-term and wide-ranging efforts to bring about sustainable improvements, and therefore the government will maintain the broad-spectrum civilian effort with long-term development cooperation, stabilisation efforts and humanitarian efforts, and at the same time will continue a broad-spectrum military effort, in which Denmark will both support the UN peacekeeping work in MINUSMA and respond to the Sahel countries' needs for support to combat terrorism through the Operation Barkhane and Task Force Takuba. So I would like to conclude by thanking you for the good debate on the contributions that we have had in this Chamber and, of course, I hope for broad support for the two motions for resolutions and also look forward to the further examination of these matters by the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507113400	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister and it is from Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507113406	Thank you. First of all, I have a question about the Sahel. When the President of France said last year that it is absolutely essential that there should be political change if we are to be able to solve the instability in the whole Sahel region, if we are to combat terrorism, the Foreign Minister himself was also out to say that this political change is important if we are to be able to look out of this situation. First of all, how well are things going with that? Is there a move in the right direction in relation to the political process in these countries? I do not experience it, but I would like to hear the Secretary of State's analysis of that. That's one thing. As far as Guinea is concerned, is it not true that none of the other countries have been contacted by the Danish Government and asked whether they would be involved in this operation, which has promised that they would, so that they have all actually said no? Isn't that correct? And what about what I have heard about Norway in the Security Council actually trying to work for a slightly wider UN mission down there? Is this something that Denmark has supported?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507113515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507113519	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Firstly, I would like to say that what this is all about in our efforts with the Sahel countries is giving them the ability to prevent terrorist organisations from spreading, fighting down terrorist organisations and thus also protecting civilians. After all, the political will of these countries and their governments must also show, but today they do not have the ability, because they face some very great challenges, and poverty, which hangs, as I said, on the covid-19 crisis, which is the fact that the Islamic State and al-Qaeda-related groups have a foothold in the region, along with their ability and their ability to dare to make the necessary political transformation. And that is where we must give them that ability and they must take political responsibility. How's it going? In other words, there has been a military coup in Mali, which we are aware of, and we must return to a democratic situation as soon as possible, and it supports Denmark and the coalition of countries. However, we have a number of partners I mentioned the United Nations, the European Union and like-minded countries, and we have all the tools in the foreign policy toolbox in progress in the region, and I think that is what it is necessary to do if we are to succeed in stabilising the Sahel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507113636	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507113639	Almost all the experts who know something about this actually say very clearly that it is not possible to simply solve this militarily and that we will not have these terrorist groups defeated unless there are major political changes as well. Otherwise, they can simply recruit on the basis of the situation, and it sounds almost like the Foreign Minister, as if we can now go in militarily and create stability and then get to work on the political front. I would say that I find a very, very worrying analysis, if correctly understood. I would also like to ask and get an answer to this issue with the Gulf of Guinea, and I know that we do not have much time, but it is not our choice that it should be treated together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507113719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507113722	We're gonna have to make parallel bets. After all, it is not the case that we have to choose between a civilian or a military effort or a political commitment, a diplomatic commitment in the region, but that we have to have all efforts to work in parallel and simultaneously, and they mutually support each other. That is why I am also surprised that the Enhedslisten will not be able to do so, because if we are to succeed with civilians and the protection of the civilian population, we also need to have some of the military tools in use. That's the answer to that part. Compared to the Gulf of Guinea, I do not understand that either. In Denmark, as a maritime nation, we share with other huge interests in providing security for our merchant ships and our seamen in the Gulf of Guinea. We have appointed a special representative to create an international coalition with other countries. Other countries also have ships in the Gulf of Guinea in a national framework, and we in Denmark now want that too. I think we will see a greater commitment, and we will work for that. Because we all have an interest in combating piracy in the Gulf of Guinea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507113814	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no further brief comments to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Then it's the Secretary of Defense. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507113834	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with those who have noticed that it is a mess with co-treatment, and we will go along with it and do our part so that it does not happen again. Because it is absolutely essential that, when we make such important decisions as it is when we send contributions out into the world, it should be given the necessary time. Almost 20 years ago, we followed the United States and our allies in NATO into Afghanistan. Our military presence was initially about preventing Afghanistan from remaining a free space for terrorists, and in these months our soldiers are returning home. But the threat of terrorism is still here, it is emerging in new areas from which terrorists are trying, by all means, to fight democracy, human rights and the rule of law, all Western values, our values. The threat of terrorism is not tied up by geography and national borders; it reflects a vicious ideology and seeks against unstable societies where resistance is low. This makes the threat picture more challenging and complex than ever before. The best thing we can do to protect our Western values is therefore to be present, where the threat of terrorism appears, and when it moves, our efforts move. Right now, we are looking with great concern at the development of the Sahel region in Africa. Militant Islamists are stepping up their bloody attacks against civilians and local security forces, and the countries of the region cannot resist. The security situation is very worrying and it is going the wrong way. The root causes of conflict cannot be addressed sufficiently, which is why we see a vicious circle of conflict and poverty promoting migration and trafficking in human beings. And the threat of terrorism is not alone; smuggling, piracy and other criminal activities also contribute to increased instability in several parts of Africa, making the threat picture even more complex. In the Gulf of Guinea, the maritime safety situation is deteriorating. Since the autumn several Danish-owned ships have been attacked by pirates, and the shipping companies are naturally concerned about the safety of their seamen and about their ships, the Gulf of Guinea. With B 295 and B 297 the government therefore wants to strengthen efforts in Africa for Denmark's security and interests and for local security. It is about combating terrorism and avoiding increased migratory pressure, which also creates instability in the countries against which the pressure is coming, and it is about supporting free navigation and maritime security. This is partly through the deployment of contributions to the European Special Operations Force, Task Force Takuba, in Mali, and partly through the deployment of a ship's contribution to the fight against piracy in the Gulf of Guinea, and we must contribute for several reasons. The contributions to Task Force Takuba are about supporting the continued efforts against terror and militant Islamists linked to IS and al-Qaeda. That threat is spreading in Africa and we must support the fight against these terrorist-related groups by advising and training the Malian security forces so that they can better ensure Mali's security. With the ship's contribution in the Gulf of Guinea, we want to contribute to free and safe navigation on the west coast of Africa. As the world's fifth largest maritime nation, this is something that we in Denmark have a clear interest in. When we send out soldiers, the security of the soldiers is always at the forefront. These are not harmless missions, because then there was no reason why we sent soldiers, and in particular the efforts in Mali must be regarded as complex tasks in a difficult operating environment. Of course, we must be aware of this when we decide to send out our soldiers. It is also important to say that our soldiers are trained for the tasks. The concrete contributions to the Task Force Takuba and the Gulf of Guinea must be seen in the context of a broad spectrum and a limited Danish commitment to the region. It is about basic support for development and stabilisation efforts and humanitarian aid. That effort is crucial for development. The Ministry of Defence supports with among other things: capacity building and training of local authorities and military forces efforts to strengthen the ability of Sahel countries to provide their own security and the capacity of coastal States to address piracy. This is an effort that the government wants to strengthen in the coming years. I am grateful for the broad support in this House for the contributions. They are very important for the soldiers we send out, and not least for their families. The best we can give our soldiers with is broad support from the Folketing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507114340	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507114344	Thank you. I would like to ask about the Sahel mission, and now I have read a number of international investigations which indicate that last year, in fact, more civilians were killed by the security forces than civilians were killed by terrorist attacks. Can the Minister confirm that this is actually the picture that a great many civilians in the area are losing their lives as a result of attacks by the security forces? That is the first question. The second question is: what does the Minister think that means for recruitment to terrorist organisations such as the United States? Al-Qaeda and IS that there is an international presence in the area and that we see very violent attacks on civilians also by the security forces?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507114428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507114432	I do not have any specific figures on that. But what I can say, and which I feel very convinced of, is that when we train locals, when we give them a better framework for performing their duties as security forces, we make them better. We train them, among other things. In the laws of war, we train them in human rights, and that is why I have no doubt that it actually makes a difference that we are present and help to play them on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507114501	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507114504	One cannot be completely blind to the fact that when, as has happened for a long time from the French side, you train and arm the local forces, when you still see that there are these massive attacks on the civilian population, you have also helped to strengthen the local forces that are committing some of the attacks. All honour and respect; I fully agree that the Danish soldiers will do what they can to communicate these laws and rules, but we, the Secretary of Defense, honestly cannot be sure that the forces that we are going in here to support do not go out and do these things right after, and that this does not actually exactly contribute to strengthening radicalisation and the influx to the terrorist groups. That's what everyone who knows about what's going on in this area is actually saying is a very, very high risk. That is one of the things we can see now, and it is also one of the things that has been quite obvious in Afghanistan, and I would like the Minister for Defence to take a slightly more open attitude to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507114557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507114601	One might ask the question: what is the alternative to us being present? At any rate, I do not believe that the local soldiers in question will be better or that they will be stronger when it comes to behaving properly. On the contrary, I have a belief that when we are here, when we follow them and thus can be both eyes and ears, we have the opportunity to react if we see some of these things. But we also have the prerequisites for giving them better tools and a better understanding of how to behave, not least when it comes to bringing the local people with them, which is quite crucial if you want to be stronger on the other side.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507114639	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. There are no further brief comments to the Secretary of Defense. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposals be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507114709	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507114721	Thank you. Technological developments have brought with them many achievements and made life much easier and also in many areas much harder for many of us. In order to solve crime, technological developments in many areas have been a good thing, in that they provide the police with more tools to solve crimes more safely and quickly, but also more effectively. On the other hand, unfortunately, this also means that criminals, criminals, have far more opportunities to do more crime, including online. However, in relation to the tools, the police use information • teleinformation, fingerprints etc. This is good because it sort of solves more crime and catches criminals and thus also creates more security. On the other hand, it goes without saying that a piece of evidence must of course be used correctly, regardless of whether it is one or the other. Unfortunately, we have seen some examples, including in recent years, of the fact that some of the evidence that has been used in relation to teledata and fingerprints has not been quite as effective or as safe as what we might in fact have thought and imagined. Perhaps also because there have been errors which have not been discovered in time and which have given rise to major cases, even scandals, in relation to the use of these funds. It has also given a significant amount of resource to try to go back and look at whether the improper use of some faulty sources has resulted in some being convicted, perhaps even unjustified. Fortunately, there is no indication of that. But it has raised a discussion. I believe that the SF in particular has raised a discussion about whether it should not be right to have supervision, so that it can be supervised when the police use various tools, whether it is monitoring, whether it is fingerprints, etc., i.e. the technical evidence. It is, we think, a good idea, and perhaps in reality also a very healthy principle, that when you get more tools in the box, you are also being watched by some independent ones to see if the authorities are using those tools correctly. That brings this bill into play, which is therefore about establishing an inspection of the evidence, so that it must be kept under review and have independent eyes on whether these evidences are being used properly. In addition, the draft law contains two other elements. One is to increase the number of people involved in the police prosecution, so that not only are the classic police officers, but also other people who are employed and who are engaged in police activities both in the police and in the prosecution. And a third element is the fact that policemen who drive on a raid don't have to get a ticket in the mailbox if they drive past a starling's box. I think most of us will think that this sounds very reasonable and reasonable. And if that is not the case today, it is very reasonable that we should get it right. So this is the bill that the Social Democrats can, of course, support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115110	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur from Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115117	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say that I am very pleased that there will now be supervision, as we have pointed out in the SF, and thank you very much for that. After all, it is a small piece of legal certainty that we are going to adopt here. I do not think we should have stopped with the technical evidence I think all the evidence should have been covered. What does the rapporteur think about this? Can't there be a basis for taking the rest too? I always think it is good to have a sample check, both in terms of looking at quality, but also in order to be able to adjust and improve in time, so that we do not get scandal cases. So what does the rapporteur think about us bringing all the evidence, not just the technical ones?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115205	I think the technical ones have the common denominator that it is technical evidence, and that is to say, if, for example, we do so. If you look at teledata data or fingerprints, etc., then being sure in the way you use it in some of the cases we have seen, you have not been able to detect when there have been errors or, in fact, when there have been errors, you have not responded to it in time. That is why I think it makes sense for us to have supervision over the technical means of proof. I think that the second promises a greater discussion of what is then the more qualitative thing to go in and assess. There you can say that there are already legal remedies if it is that you feel you are being unfairly treated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115249	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115252	Thank you again for the floor. I actually understand that there is a difference between the slightly more qualitative evidence and the technical evidence. Technically, you can clarify whether it's okay or not. But does the rapporteur think it is okay that it is just the police themselves that should keep an eye on the quality of the other evidence? Should there not be an independent look at what could see whether the quality is in order and whether leading questions are being asked in interrogation reports, for example.? I think maybe that could happen. But that would show that there was perhaps something here to be worked on incorporating into the work of the police. The point is that when we don't have supervision that also looks at it, we don't get smarter or better necessarily, and that's really just my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115346	After all, we are talking about legal certainty, and it can be said that the technical evidence is difficult for a defender to challenge. Of course, this can be done in some cases. But I would think that in most cases they are a factual basis, and that is why there is a need for someone who has an independent look at them and also an independent look at whether the police use them correctly and in the right situations. The second will, of course, be the subject of a trial between a prosecutor and a defender in which we proceed more qualitatively, in relation to what kind of statements there were and what the questioning has led to in relation to the procedure we are then going through.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115423	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115429	Thank you. And it is to the question of emergency driving, where we agree with what the draft law says. However, some of the cases that have been seen have in practice dealt with civilian police vehicles, which have just not had a blue flash, because in the situation it has been inappropriate. It is, for example, a police car and it is quoted after the remembrance that went after a school bus that strayed dangerously and where the police decided not to blink blue because one thought that one would then risk the bus driver trying to escape and that would mean that the children were put in danger etc. So will the Social Democrats be prepared to look at whether we have actually made this provision too narrow, because there may be other examples which should also be included in the scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115529	I assume that this will then be one of the examples that will emerge in the legislative process. So willingness or not, we're going to look at it, and I think that's fair enough. I'm not quite sure what it's like today. I assume that if you, as a policeman, post a school bus, if you have doubts about whether the driver is drunk with alcohol, and if you do not blink in order to avoid an accident, you have a fairly good case on your hand if you have to explain why you have a speeding ticket.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115556	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115559	Yeah, yeah, but what you're asking for in the bill is that there's gonna be a presumption that the cops don't need a speeding ticket. To the contrary, they need to have a speeding ticket and need to spend a lot of time and resources to avoid getting the speeding ticket in the end. That's what the bill's gonna do. A second question concerns police vehicles, but what about the preparedness, that is, ambulances, fire trucks, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115631	Well, I know there's a broad desire in relation to getting more included. I've been asked a lot about it, too. I think that is also one of the issues we will be discussing in the course of the debate. Now we're going to add here that it's the police with emergency, because it seems a little fussy that per. automatics must click in a speed ticket. In relation to the second example of the police, which does not blink and pursue this school bus, we should then spread it to the practice that you should be per. If you're caught by a starling box when you're not wearing an alert, isn't that a fine? Maybe I'm having a little trouble feeling that too. So perhaps it is a very fair balance that has been struck there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115711	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507115731	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Minister for Justice for the bill. Let me start by saying that we are in principle in favour of the legislative proposal, but that is why there may well be things that can be done better. In other words, we are in favour of extending the circle of people we can complain about, so that it is not only the police themselves, but also non-police-trained police personnel that we will be able to complain about in future. It is actually a little strange that it has not been so far. We think that's really good. This can increase confidence in the police and can increase legal certainty for those people who have been treated, either legally or wrongly, by the police, who they believe are not in order. In relation to the second question about the technical evidence, I could hear from the SF that one might consider that it should not only be technical evidence, but could also be other evidence. We would like to discuss this. This is not an issue that we have been aware of ourselves, but let us discuss it during the committee procedure. I think we should be positive about that. The last is the question of cops being blitzed, both of starling boxes and atk's. Well, one might say in one's quiet mind: then they can feel for themselves what it's like when the rest of us sometimes get flashed not that I personally have experience with it, but I've heard about others who have had such problems. But, of course, it goes without saying that it is totally absurd that officers should spend time on a lot of administrative work, because they have just taken care of their jobs, which means that they have the opportunity to violate the traffic law on a number of points. But as I also mentioned in my question to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Bruus, there is the question whether we have actually done so too narrowly. Because there will also be situations where officers drive too fast in civilian vehicles without having put a blue blink on the roof, because the purpose of the response would be wasted if they put a blue blink on. I mean, if you, for example... succeeding a suspicious car and then putting the blue blink on the roof, even the dumbest criminal can probably figure out that there is someone after him, and that can be really, really unsmart in some situations. And the second question is: why only the police? I mean, an ambulance rescuer who gets flashed by a stark box doesn't have to be fined either. I guess a firefighter who gets flashed by a starling's box isn't gonna get a fine either. In other words, should we not extend the range of emergency vehicles so that it includes all emergency vehicles that drive too fast? However, with the reservations which we can then clarify in the committee procedure, I repeat that we in the Left believe that it is a good legislative proposal that has been put forward by the government to amend the law on the administration of justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507120054	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. I would ask the rapporteur to prepare the platform for the next rapporteur, who comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507120117	Thank you, President. We are dealing here with a bill on improving the processing of telecommunications data and better treatment of our police officers, who are persecuting suspects in service and who are going into a so-called starry box and then being sent a fine which, of course, they do not have to pay, but where there is important time that could have gone by with police work and clearing work, to get it handled. As far as the first point is concerned, we have all followed the so-called tele-data file as if something revealed how demanding and complex it is to uncover when errors occur in the technical evidence. That is why we are glad that the government is now putting forward a proposal here to change the setup so that, hopefully, it will be easier to move forward. And that is in everyone's interest in a case and therefore something that we can support. On the question of starling boxes and how the police should dispose of their time, we also have no doubts about supporting the proposal. But we kind of share the idea that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen pointed out that the same argument cannot be used against other public sector officials who have good reasons for not complying with speed limits at times. It may be the driver of an ambulance or a fire truck where we all agree that it is a matter of getting to the end station as soon as possible, more than perhaps in this situation you can only drive 50 km/h. through the city. So we would like to look at the committee's proceedings to see whether it is not possible, either here or in a parallel legislative proposal, to extend the circle of those who can be exempted from having to deal with these automatic speeding tickets. But otherwise we in the Danish People's Party are only positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507120335	Thank you for that to the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507120354	Thank you for the floor. I regret in advance, if it is a little long, because I am actually rather enthusiastic about the bill we are dealing with here, because it is a small piece of legal certainty, as the SF pointed out several times in connection with the so-called telecommunications scandal, namely this new supervision of technical evidence. We said repeatedly that there is a need for continuous checks and spot checks as to whether the evidence we use in criminal proceedings is in order. And it will then be the task of supervision in the future to monitor whether the quality of it is in order. It may sound dry, but it is actually quite important, because it would be extremely intrusive if a person were wrongly linked to crime on the basis of teleinformation, DNA analysis, registrations in license plate scanners or other things that are wrong. And, unfortunately, we have an example of how things have gone wrong, because there was a case with a craftsman who was convicted of breaking and entering on the basis of a wrong DNA match. He declared himself innocent all the way to the court and was able to serve 60 days before it was discovered that it was actually not his DNA and therefore not him who had anything to do with the break-in. And I think we will all understand how terrible it is to be accused, convicted and imprisoned for something that has not been done. This can have great personal consequences. That is one thing: it is a matter of legal certainty. But it must also be said that it is costly and resource-intensive when you suddenly have to go through thousands of cases of teledata, because you find faults in those which can, of course, potentially shake evidence in a case. Fortunately, it turned out that no cases were found where it had had an impact, but it underlines why it is better to have supervision than not having it, so that you get an early response to the problems. And it turned out, unfortunately, that problems had been known for a long time, but it had not been fully followed up. And now I hope that the new supervision can contribute to that. Having said that, and I am pleased with the new supervision, because we have pointed out for ourselves the need for it, I think that all the evidence should have been covered, and I have actually said that on several occasions, and I have asked the Minister about it. I know that technical evidence has a character that makes them much easier to control, but I could see for myself that we had random checks of all the means of investigation, both to learn how to improve them, but also because we know that sometimes I can go very fast for the police today, because they have far too many tasks, and then mistakes can be made. And it would be really good to have a look at it. We saw in the Sun Tray case, although it is old, and hopefully there have been many changes in the police since that one could question the value of the interrogations that had taken place. Do we have methods to ensure that this could not be a challenge today? Actually, I don't know, but we can clarify that. A recent case, for example, is: The Pusher Street case, where a prosecutor now convicted, manipulated witnesses who were police agents. As it is now, it is up to the police themselves to control it, but it should perhaps also be a task for independent supervision. We have also seen that the quality of the preliminary investigation, for example, in the case of the United Kingdom. rape cases weren't very good. It ended up leading to minimum steps. It was also a place where you might have needed an oversight that looked in at an earlier time. It could be the use of visitation zones... how are the searches actually carried out, documented and used in court, and how do we ensure that they do not go beyond non-suspected ones? In fact, I think there is a need to look at all evidence. The last thing I want to say about the Prosecution Supervisory Authority is that it is not really defined who the new member of the Police Complaints Council should be, other than being a technical expert. I think it would make sense for the Engineers' Association to appoint that member. It says right now that it is the Ministry that has to appoint that member, and it does not actually say where the expert should come from. It would be good to be impartial in that decision. Then there are a few other things that this proposal is also about. After all, it is also proposed that the independent Police Complaints Boards should be able to take cases relating to the civilian staff of the police in the future. It makes good sense, especially because there are increasing numbers of them. And now that we are in the hands of civilians, I think that we should correct the bias that the lawyers of the prosecution are employed in the Ministry of Justice; at least they are the ones who issue advertisements, I can see, and, like the investigators, they should be employed directly in the police prosecutor's office. I do not think there have been any problems, but I do not think it should be a discussion about whether there is real independence or not. It is detrimental to confidence in the police prosecution and a little stupid when things can be different. I think we could make that right here too. Finally, I think that we should also include the prosecutions of the Attorney General and the Attorney General of the Independent Board of Appeal. It does not seem quite well thought out that when a case is fully investigated against a prosecutor at the District Attorney's Office or the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office, who will then have to settle the issue of indictment against his own employee or non-indictment. It will certainly be sent to another public prosecutor, but here too it will be confidence-building if we can get it lifted into the independent police prosecutor's board. Last but not least, the proposal must address the problem of the many road traffic cases where police at work legally violate traffic rules. That's a really good idea, too. So I would just like to indicate that we support the proposal, of course, but also that there are a number of amendments from the SF. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507120951	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the radical Left, and that is Mr. Kristian Hegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507121034	Thank you for the floor. Teledata was the first word I learned as new legal rapporteur in the summer of 2019. And I remember that the scandal occurred on a sunny July day, when I was on my way to Roskilde Festival. Since then, we have followed the matter closely and the Minister has been in several consultations. Technique is good, digital development is the future, it makes a lot of things easier. But is it perfect? I think the many digital meetings lately have shown that sometimes the sound is bad, sometimes the camera doesn't work, and digital doesn't have all the perfections in it. It doesn't do much when you're having a team meeting, because you're gonna have to say what you have to say anyway. But if the uncertainty of any technique is guilty or not guilty of a trial, then it is a problem. Let me illustrate this with an example of teledata. I live in Humlebæk, a beautiful town in North Zealand. When I head towards Louisiana or Krogerup, which is on Strandvejen, sometimes it happens that I get an SMS where it is welcome to Sweden. And so there is, without crossing the Øresund and my acquaintance, Sweden has not conquered land in the North Zealand. But if I was connected to a Swedish mast without having moved out of my town, Humlebæk, and I had committed crime... it could be madness or anything else... then I would say in a trial: Look at my teleinformation; I was in Sweden, it certainly wasn't me. In other words, if it were the only evidence available. In this way, for example, teledata has its built-in vulnerabilities, and we have seen that in the specific case. And, unfortunately, teledata is not the only technical evidence that has proved to be challenging. I remember and it's not even very funny, but we were joking at some point in the Committee on Legal Affairs when a couple of cases arose, that we almost had to have a weekly meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, where it said: this week's digital challenges with evidence. Fortunately, it is some time ago that there has been something, but it has to be said that it is inappropriate when we see that the challenges of DNA and the various developments in it may mean that there is someone who is able to serve before checking it in relation to the previous one, and we know it is 800 IT systems, overall, in the police. We have also heard a concrete example of the fact that certain time indications in profiles from seized mobile phones were not accurate. And when it's as if those things are picking up in a pile, it can pose a significant challenge to legal certainty. That is why it is gratifying that we are now putting in place, as we can now politically, with independent supervision, which can investigate these technical means of proof, so that we have as much focus as possible on legal certainty and on the fact that, technically speaking, evidence is not used to judge guilty innocent or innocent guilty persons. I will then touch very briefly on the other two elements of the draft law, namely that in future the police prosecutor will also be able to deal with cases for other personnel in addition to police officers. We think this is sensible, and so we think it is very sensible that policemen driving in a police car should not, of course, be fined if they drive past-star boxes. And we think that some of the comments that have been made in relation to possible enlargements are something that we will certainly not reject in advance. So the Radical Left welcomes this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507121515	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507121537	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Justice for bringing forward this bill, which I am absolutely convinced will strengthen the public's confidence, not just in the police, but in our entire legal system. It is important for the people to be confident that the evidence that is part of the trials is also the right one, and we have seen that there have been several situations in which it has subsequently emerged that the technical evidence was simply not suitable to prove anything. The problem is that lawyers, prosecutors and judges do not necessarily understand that. After all, without insulting anyone in this Chamber, they are just lawyers. They don't have much to do with teledata and the science behind DNA. And I know that because I went to law school myself. And that is precisely why it makes great sense that we are now being supervised to ensure that all the evidence presented to the courts is also real evidence. Our society is designed in such a way that we have distributed power so that we have both the legislative, the judicial and the executive powers. And I think we're strengthening trust across the board with this bill. People can be confident that we, as legislators, are doing everything we can to ensure that the executive and judicial power have the best conditions for exercising the power they have been given. It helps to secure trust. Similarly, it helps to ensure confidence when we now extend the powers of the independent police prosecutor to cover matters relating to all those involved in police work and not just to police officers. Although it is only in very few cases that the independent police prosecutor finds the opportunity to express criticism of events, the system is still helping to ensure that everything is done as it should, and again that people's confidence in power remains intact. What educational backgrounds one has should not determine whether one's action can be investigated when one is employed by the police. If you do the same job at the same place of work, everyone should also be treated equally. So we think that in the Enhedslisten is really, really positive, and I also remember, as the teledata case, as several other rapporteurs have mentioned, came to light, where we were actually missing exactly the tools that this bill provides. Finally, when it comes to adjusting the system of speeding tickets to the police staff, so that it is done in the same way as for other emergency vehicles, I can have little concern. Ambulances and fire trucks only leave when there is a need, that is, in the emergency situation, and then perhaps a rare time to get lunch. But as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen mentioned, the police use the cars as an office on wheels. They're not just sitting here waiting to be called out. They drive around and are present in the city picture, and I think that's a really good thing. But this also means that, unlike a fire truck, the majority of the kilometres driven in a police car are not an emergency service. And if there is no emergency driving, then the speed limits must be observed, including by the police, otherwise it can be a great danger to other road users, and if there is no consequence in driving unduly too fast, then you can quickly forget your foot on the accelerator. So we're a little skeptical about that part of the bill. Otherwise, however, we are very much in favour of this bill, and we are also very much in favour of the amendments that the SF's rapporteur proclaimed should be put forward. I am counting on Enhedslisten to support them so that we can expand precisely those things that make it possible, as a citizen, to have a great deal of confidence in both the police and the prosecutor's office. Then support from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507121937	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and this is where Mads Andersen is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507121958	Thank you. There is no doubt, of course, that when I was told that I was going to be the legal rapporteur, it was good night reading like this one that I had been looking forward to having a good time with, a proper mop boy, but in itself the content of the bill is actually very good things, and I think that is also the proposal of the cases I have been with so far, where there has been such a positive atmosphere around all sides, including myself. The proposal is, of course, in all its simplicity about strengthening and improving quality, one can say, in the confidence we have in our Danish police, and I actually imagine that, and I can also hear that most people agree with that is a good idea. I believe that, without necessarily having reason to believe that a great many countries around the world could be very jealous that we have in Denmark. In terms of technical evidence, I think that makes sense and we are happy to take the discussion in committee on possible amendments and further talk about it. We will not deny that. With regard to this idea of extending the system of police charges to include administrative staff, we think that is what makes sense. I'll admit, let's say in my inexperience and with not so much time in here that I actually thought it was that way, but let's finally get it in. In relation to the starling boxes, we are also positive about it and actually just want to involve other parts of the preparedness. I think that was a very good proposal, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen came along, and I think we should just try to come along and discuss it further. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507122134	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteurs from the New Civil and Liberal Alliance in the Chamber, so I can give the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507122157	Thank you, President. Thank you for the positive comments that were made here. Sir. Kristian Hegaard began his speech by saying that one of the first words he, as a newly elected member of parliament and court rapporteur, encountered was the word teledata. I have to say that it was also a relatively new concept for me, but which, on the other hand, I got to know relatively thoroughly. I do not know whether it was what made the most of me, or whether it was when I was supposed to get hold of the new legal rapporteurs and, like, create a good relationship with them, that there was simply one of the legal rapporteurs who is present in the Chamber, and I shall not hang anyone out, but maybe just say a rapporteur representing a party to the left of the SF who had simply forgotten that I had become a minister and therefore very reluctant to take my telephone call. It also made a certain impression on me without being particularly self - centered, I just want to say. Oh! To this proposal: Thank you for receiving. There are some things that need to be worked on. There are also some things that I think we can clarify immediately. Officers driving too fast in civilian vehicles are a question that has been raised: that is a matter of clarification and we expect that to be settled before the summer break. When it's not part of this, it's because it can be handled administratively; we don't have to make legislative changes. And that is also the answer in relation to the other emergency vehicles; it is also handled because it could be handled administratively. But when we have to get hold of this with the police, it is because it is regulated by the Code of Procedure, and when it is regulated, we also have to do so in law if we are to change the rules. So the issue that has been raised, I think, is dealt with in a way. Then SF also raises the relevant question: should not all evidence be included? After all, the idea here is not to replace, but to complement the existing control and supervision mechanisms that exist. When this comes up, among other things. on the basis of the teledata case, but also other cases we have been through, because when dealing with technical evidence presented in a trial, they have typically been through some form of treatment or investigation which documents something that cannot necessarily be ascertained by the naked eye. And what could that be? Yeah, it could be this information about which master you called from with your phone, it could also be fingerprints, it could be DNA, etc. So this is really about ensuring the reliability of the technical evidence and their integrity. On the other hand, the non-technical evidence is often presented immediately in court, i.e. for example.: How, then, does the folding knife work as it was used or whatever it may be? And we have, of course, next to this, but it may be that it is some of the things that need to be done in the committee procedure. We are working with today, after all, a number of other ways in which the police are also controlled, and I am not sure that I can remember them all, but let me mention a few: I mean, the legality control that we want there to be, namely whether you stay within the framework of the law, is typically carried out by the prosecutor. As far as personal data is concerned, we also have the Data Protection Agency, which also monitors the police, as they do with other authorities. And then, of course, we have the independent Police Prosecutor's Office, which deals with behavioral complaints and questions as to whether criminal matters have been committed in connection with the service. Finally, what is most important is the adversarial process in the trials, that is to say, that in a specific trial you can challenge what may be presented by the police. So this is intended as an addition, but an important addition, to the other processes which exist and which, moreover, as several of the rapporteurs have said, help to secure confidence in the police, and to secure confidence in our authorities, which, fortunately, are already towering, but when we find, as here, that there is an area where we can do better, it is good that we do better, and it is good that we get to grips with it together here. And I actually expect all parties to end up voting for this bill. I am and we are very open to looking at things if there is anything that needs to be drilled further into the treatment that is required. Thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507122622	Thank you, Minister. It does not appear that there are any brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507122648	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, sir. Jeppe Bruus. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507122653	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are about to deal with is about the implementation of two EU directives: the Product Directive and the Digital Content Directive. These are two total harmonization directives, which leave it to the individual Member States to decide whether or not to go further than the rules of the directive in specific areas. It is therefore a question here of the balance between the protection of consumers and the interests of the industry. The draft law here is based on the work of the committee with a large number of different stakeholders who have dealt with it here, and the draft law we are now considering follows the committee's recommendations with a few exceptions. One of the biggest and most relevant changes that will happen with the bill is that you will expand the scope of application, so that the rules that apply when we buy in the physical world will also apply when we buy digital content or digital services, and that is very natural, as it fills more and more. And that means, in general terms, that the same rules will apply regardless of whether you buy a product down in the supermarket or you buy a digital service or content. The draft law here also extends the existing Danish law on a number of points and, in fact, goes further than the minimum requirements contained in the directives, and when we have chosen it, it is also because it would be a little absurd to have to go the other way. There are a few places where the draft law does not follow the recommendations made in the committee. This is primarily about live horses, which we have also had the opportunity to discuss in the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs, and we have had visits from a number of stakeholders who have argued why this is a good idea and why it is a bad idea. If it is not included here, it is because in future they will not be covered by the rules on consumer purchases, since there will therefore be mainly rules of civil law, i.e. rules on purchases between very specified parties. It may have been a little black talk, but it is an attempt to say that the horses here are therefore exempted from the rules there are. Then there has been a great deal of attention to the length of the complaint deadline. The draft law does not extend the complaint period and the presumption rule beyond the starting point laid down in the Directives of 2 and 1 years respectively. Finally, we have also had a discussion in connection with a number of the consultation answers and stakeholders, and also in the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the deadline for complaint, in other words whether it can have a positive effect on the green transition, and there is the assessment in relation to the draft law that the complaint deadline that is today will be maintained. With the words and attempts to reproduce some of what can also be a little technical, I have to say that the Social Democrats support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507123006	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507123042	Thank you for the floor. With this bill, we have to decide on a number of changes to the rules of the Buying Act. In the Left, we want it to be safe to be a consumer in Denmark, while at the same time giving the business community proper framework conditions. With the proposed legislation, we believe that a good balance has been struck between the two considerations. The purpose of the bill is to transpose the Goods Directive and the Digital Content Directive into Danish law. The draft law proposes that the rules on consumer purchases in the purchasing law and on trade guarantees in the marketing law should be amended in order to comply with the rules laid down in the two directives. This is proposed, among other things. to extend the scope of the rules on consumer purchases in the Buying Act so that the rules apply explicitly to the purchase of digital content and digital services. This means that, in general terms, the same rules will apply regardless of whether the consumer buys a product or digital content or digital services. In addition, in a number of cases, the presumption period is extended from 6 months to 1 year. A committee has been set up which has been widely composed of a group of stakeholders who have looked at how best to implement the two directives in Danish law. This bill corresponds with a few amendments to the draft law of the Committee. The Left believes that the draft law represents a reasonable balance between consumer and business interests. Insufficient consumer protection allows stumbled vessels to cheat consumers without sanctions, and it also harms honest businesses. Conversely, over-protection in consumer protection rules will result in higher costs for businesses and will ultimately lead to high prices for consumers. Left votes in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507123232	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. And thank you for getting ready for the next rapporteur, who comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507123257	Thank you, President. Once again, we are here to implement an EU directive this time in the field of consumer law. Although I have spent most of my life making speeches against the European Union and what comes out of ills from Brussels, even such an obscene type as me must admit that when you have an internal market, it makes sense that you also have common rules for the goods traded in the internal market. That is precisely what we are talking about here. We have a purchasing law in Denmark, but it should very much remind us, as well as the marketing law, of what applies in the other countries, with which we trade a lot, and whose products we therefore buy. That is why we in the Danish People's Party are not automatically opposed to a directive such as the one we are dealing with today, but we are looking at the content. The content acts among other things. on the fact that in the new world you can still say that you can shop on digital platforms without having to pay anything, namely by giving a company access to your data, there has been a question of whether it can be considered a consumer trading relationship. This law makes it clear that this is the case. In other words, you agree to get a benefit, for example. on Facebook, or whatever it may be for a digital platform, against the other party having access to follow you on the phone or where it may be, yes, it is a trading relationship, a debtor-creditor relationship. This means that consumers will, of course, have some rights too, and that is what has been unclear, and we are quite happy to see that clarification is now being made. So that part of the bill the government won't get into trouble with us in the Danish People's Party. On the other hand, there is an area that you can say is in a completely different ball street. Well, it's almost the most remote thing from the digital one can imagine. It is about the sale of live horses by consumers. It was a bit of a surprise to me that the two things are covered by the same bill, I must admit, but there may of course be some practical reasons for that. I simply cannot see what this means for families who may want to have a horse in order for their children to have the pleasure of learning how to ride etc., that that trade should no longer be regarded as a consumer concern with all the preceptive protection rules, which are, after all, contained in the buying law for the consumer, despite the fact that in many cases it will actually be people who act outside their usual business area. I also note that the Danish Veterinarian Association has been concerned about what this is going to mean both for consumer protection, but also for animal welfare, and that is why it is an area in which we may not quite say with the same enthusiasm that this is something we can support. In any case, we will have to put a number of questions in committee and perhaps also put a few amendments to the second reading. Then I have noted that the auto industry has made a number of observations in this bill, even in relation to the complaint period, when a minority in the commission, who has made the data before this bill, has suggested that you should have a complaint period of as much as six years. I know the government is not following up on that, but I would just like to say that you have to remember that if you want to make a complaint that is so long, the proof will be very, very difficult. If you are completely out there, where you have bought a product, and in this case you will probably find a car that I think the auto industry is primarily concerned with, and after 6 years you will have to prove a deficiency which is not wear and tear after that, what is usually to be expected at that time, but is something that can be attributed to a shortage of the product at the time of purchase, then it will be very, very bureaucratic and very, very, very difficult, I think. That is why we are actually satisfied that the government has not gone down that road, and I just want to flag it here. So all in all, the positive word in terms of improving consumer safety, worrying words in relation to the fact that the trade in live horses should no longer be regarded as a consumer matter, even if you are acting outside your usual business area, but we look forward to diving into that. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507123759	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507123823	Thank you for the floor. In the SF, in contrast, we find it a pity that we have not chosen to extend the right of complaint, because it is unreasonable that consumers should pay several thousand kroner for a product which, shortly after the 2 years of warranty, is broken and where there is no help. Consumers in Denmark are worse off than consumers in many other European countries. Norway, Iceland, Finland, the Netherlands, Ireland, England, Scotland and Sweden have a longer warranty than Denmark. In addition to the fact that it is not reasonable from a consumer perspective, an extension of the right of complaint would probably have an indirect positive effect on the climate and the environment, because dealers are given an incentive to drop products that have a short life span when they are to be liable for the products they sell for a long time. Moreover, the pressure on the percentages in terms of producing products that last longer will increase if more countries introduce an extended warranty. The draft law improves the legal position of the consumer in some areas, and we are, of course, pleased about that, but we think it is a pity that the opportunity has not been taken to improve the consumer's legal position for a long time when they experience shortcomings in their products.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507123931	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124015	Thank you for the floor. It is a pleasure to come on shortly after one at least according to the standards EU-enthusiastic festive speech from the Danish People's Party Morten Messerschmidt. So thank you for touching and putting a little colour on this debate, where there has not been much discussion and the great questioning, otherwise. When I read this bill, a blissful memory of the first year of law school appeared. When I started my studies, I remember there was a subject called Formueret 1, and in that subject one should among other things. read a great deal about the purchase law, and there it was very important that one could distinguish between the three purchases: trade purchases, civil purchases and consumer purchases. And I thought at that time: When on earth will I need to distinguish between the three kinds of purchases? But now I've figured out why it was important to learn it in the studio, so it was nice to be completely confirmed in it. In addition, I think it is important to thank the wide-ranging committee which has produced a draft law which, of course, is largely the basis for the legislative proposal which is here and which has few amendments. In this speech I do not wish to comment on the Radical Left's position on the location of the purchase of live horses. That is not something that is contained in our policy-making programme, I can reveal, but I think it is important because it is very important for someone that we should, as it were, deal with it thoroughly in the forum where it is being done, so we will take a closer look at it in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights' Rights. It is the implementation of two directives, which are quite important in terms of digital development, and therefore the new definition provisions are quite essential, and the extension of the scope of consumer purchases is what makes it very, very clear that it also applies to contracts for the provision of digital content and digital services. It is, of course, a good thing to make this clear, at least in cases where the consumer gives his personal data. So in those words, I would like to thank those who have prepared for this comprehensive legislative proposal and for the implementation of it. I have noticed the many answers that have also been received, and I look forward to them being dealt with in depth with the respect they deserve in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124248	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard and Radical Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124327	Thank you for the floor, President. I'll be brief. I think that some good points have been made in relation to some of the things that need to be looked at in committee. If I am to give priority to one thing that I would like to emphasise, which is important to us in the Enhedslisten and which I also hear is important to several others, then it is to seize the opportunity to look at the right of complaint. And some of what I hear the government say as an argument against extending the right of complaint are the negative consequences that it should have for business and the negative consequences it may have in terms of putting itself in prices so that they will rise. But when we look at the other countries that have seized the opportunity to extend the right of complaint, that is not actually what we are seeing, and that is why I really think we should reconsider it. I hope the government will do the same. So we're gonna bite into it. In general, however, we will wait for the committee procedure and then see if we can split up the legislative proposal and whether we can perhaps change some of the things before we indicate what we will finally vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124515	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124524	Thanks for the speech. After all, I noticed that the rapporteur was talking about the problem of longer warranty rights. I would actually just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that what we should do is make demands on producers in order for their goods to last better than those who sell them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124553	I think it is a very good question that comes from the Left and from the rapporteur. In fact, I think we can make it more nuanced than that. Let's see if there aren't some specific things where you can be entitled to have it repaired. It could be a few other things. With bags we often see, it may be the zipper that has gone wrong with, but that the bag actually works fine. So I am actually, and so is Enhedslisten, open to looking at it precisely in relation to those who produce the goods, but also to looking at the different links and how we can put it together in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124627	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124629	The reason I am asking is that, if we are to make demands on producers, we have to do this through the European Union, and this is actually being done right now; we are in the process of revising what is called the Ecodesign Directive. In the Left, we very much welcome it, which is why we believe that we should not start tampering with the warranty until we have a handle on what is happening in the European Union. So does the rapporteur not think that it would be a good idea for us to look that way and then get something done about it down there, where we can actually lift something, rather than in Denmark, where we cannot do much about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124707	This is a well-known disagreement between the Left and the Enhedslisten. So in the Enhedslisten, we cannot wait for the European Union. We think it is obvious that Denmark is leading the way and helping to set a good example and set some good things in motion. In addition, it is also a good opportunity to create jobs that the various products can be repaired. So we will welcome it if we succeed in finding something good in the European Union, but we will not wait for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124739	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Mads Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124754	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Minister for the bill. In the Conservative People's Party, we think that this bill goes in and addresses some of the challenges and opportunities offered by the large international market and the increased digitisation. We welcome with great satisfaction the clarifications which help to make it both better and more flexible for the consumer and indeed for business as well. We are also very fond of the work of this committee, and we really believe that it has meant a great deal for the qualification of this proposal, and of course we look at that very positively. We have heard from many different interesting sectors that have given their response to this, and of course they are in their right to do so, and this has helped to make it a really flexible process. The art of this is, of course, to improve consumer conditions without weakening business opportunities in order to be competitive, and we very much welcome this. In relation to this very specific issue of horses, I would like to say that we sit back in the carriage until further notice and await the committee's consideration. It may be that there are some good, wise questions and considerations that we can take along. The Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124914	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. Then I can see that the Minister for Justice is getting up and that is quite appropriate, because no more rapporteurs have actually been present in the Chamber who have not already been given the floor, and so I can give the floor to the Minister for Justice. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507124933	Thank you for that and thank you for the positive comments. Let me return to some of the points later. If we start at the overall level, this is an attempt to strike a balance between, on the one hand, a high level of consumer protection and, on the other hand, good conditions for Danish business. This is about the high level of consumer protection that we all enjoy, but at the same time there is a desire not to put Danish companies at a disadvantage compared to their European competitors or to risk too much of companies passing the costs on to consumers. Where, then, should that balance lie? Well, in fact, I think that the way I did it myself, namely to put it to a committee where there are competent people, to say where the cut should be, is the right way to do it. This means that we have had a committee which has had representatives nominated by Danish universities and by our Association of Judges, but also the Consumer Ombudsman, Danish Industry, Danish Industry, Danish Business, the Association for Danish Internet Trade, the Consumer Council Think and a number of ministries have sat and prepared these rules. And what I am proposing and what the government is proposing is that we follow the committee and that we follow the majority of the committee where there is disagreement. It is also the case that, on a number of points, we choose to be quite sharp on the consumer side. We maintain, for example. the broad concept of the Danish consumer, which is broader than that contained in the directive. We maintain the seller's duty to provide information, and we apply the broad scope that we know from the Marketing Act, covering both goods and services, where, if we had taken the goods directive as it is, only the goods would have been covered. So in this way I think we are really hitting a balance here, and that is what I hear there is broad support for. Then there is the point, in particular, of why trade in horses should not be a consumer purchase, and so there is a procedural answer, and there is a substantive answer. The material answer is that special conditions apply to horses, since this type of trade often takes place in a specialized and professional environment, and therefore the relationship of strength between the parties is different from that typically offered by consumers. That's the material answer. The procedural answer is that I have been overrun by the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, which has very strong interests in exactly horse trading and that to an extent, so I finally capitulated and said: Fair enough, then we take horse trading out. I was convinced by the good arguments put forward by the party's many representatives who have interests in this area. So it is materially right and it is simply also an effort where I have listened to those who are smarter at horse trading than I am, and I think that virtually all people in Denmark are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125243	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister of Justice, and that is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125249	I just want to know if the Justice Minister couldn't consecrate us in some of the good arguments he's been given from the Left. When I'm like Mr. Keating... Kristian Hegaard sits and thinks back to my study time, I can't recall any other relationship....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You always look at the seller and the buyer and their assumptions, i.e. whether they are in an area where they have a knowledge of practice, etc., which is expected to be a professional player, or whether you are acting as a consumer. It is said that because it is a horse, it is so, but if it is a mule or some other lizard animal, perhaps a goat, then it is a consumer trade. I simply do not understand where the limit goes and why it goes there. How about a zebra? No, of course a zebra is a business purchase. But can the Minister not dedicate us to the good observations he has received from the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125402	What convinced me was the relatively convincing explanation of this type of situation by the Left: that the vast majority of horses are apparently dealt with in a way in Denmark and I didn't know that, so I refer only to professional or semi-professional parties and there is therefore not the imbalance that you see elsewhere. It was presented much more convincingly than the way I go through it now. And of course it is my responsibility that it is in the bill now, but in this, as in a number of other areas, I think it is more fair that it is the Left that explains the policy of the Left than that I should explain the policy of the Left after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125450	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125452	That's perfectly reasonable. I would just like to ask that we can have an overview of other points in the purchasing legislation if it is where the item of purchase defines the nature of the trade. I think the Minister understands what I mean by that, right? The Minister of Justice Completely). So, I mean where it is not the parties, but what is being dealt with determines whether it is a business relationship or a consumer relationship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125519	I'd be delighted to convey that to you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125524	Then there is another brief comment, and it is from Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125527	I would like to thank you for the roses from the Minister. I'm always happy when you listen to the Left that you should do more, because then everything will be really good in this world. I would just like to inform the Minister and perhaps the rest of Parliament that it is not only the Left that thinks it is a good idea to exempt live animals, including horses, especially horses. This exception has just been made in the European Union because it is believed that there may be a need for it. And among the hearing answers it is precisely the Horse's Guard that thinks it is a good idea. The Horse's Guard handles the horses. Then there is the Danish Ride Federation, and who is responsible for the Danish Ride Federation? It is precisely the consumers who buy and not the sellers. So this is probably more of a comment and thanks for the roses rather than a question. But of course the Minister is welcome to reply to what has been said here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125628	I just think this confirms that in this context too, the Left is better at explaining the policies of the Left than I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125639	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125646	I look forward to it because I sincerely think it is legally interesting that we in the committee should look into this issue of the purchase of live horses and where it should be placed. For the Minister's position on this is that both parties are supposed to have a specialized knowledge about it. But usually trade purchases are defined the more so as part of one's profession. So what is interesting is whether it kind of changes the definition that lies in trade. And that is why I would like to ask if you could draw a parallel to the car industry, for example, that if you like. If you buy vintage cars, you assume that when you buy them, you have a special specialized knowledge about them, but not in relation to other cars. Or is the Minister expecting that this will change something in relation to the relationship between consumer purchases and trade purchases?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125736	No, I don't. So, basically, I think that the legislative proposal that we have before us is large, comprehensive, important and complex in terms of regulating the relationship when it is being dealt with, including, as has been said, the digital area, which has otherwise been unregulated. And I really see this issue of horses as a relatively limited and limited issue, which is borne by special interests and wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125806	Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister of Justice. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak either, and that is why the debate is now closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125843	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507125851	Thank you very much. Motion for a resolution B 177 calls for a bill to be tabled before the summer on the establishment of boards in a number of artistic educations, including the Academy of Fine Arts and the Film School. We have had a good debate in the past on the boards of artistic education at first reading of B 109 and B 113, precisely on the establishment of the board of directors at the Academy of Fine Arts. Now it is B 177 that will form the framework for our debate today. In fact, I would just like to start by stating that I still fully agree with the purpose of the resolution here, namely to set up boards of directors, and that this should be done as a strengthening of the leadership power of artistic education which can prevent and deal with the kind of incidents we have seen in public. In recent years there have been examples of simply too much gravel in the machinery: crimes, harassment and, most recently, vandalism against a bust by Frederik the fifth who was thrown into the harbor. This kind of case focuses and does not benefit the reputation that artistic education should have, and it is important that the right framework for training is present, and we must of course ensure that this is done in the legislation. I also fully agree with the authors of the motion that the guiding principle of the work must be to set up boards that are competent, independent and professional. However, as I have already said from this platform, it is also necessary to get to the bottom of the problems and challenges that may be involved; secondly, to be thorough about finding the right framework for the institutions' main purpose, namely to train artists. We need to be sure that we solve the challenges in the best way possible, and we need to look for answers to the questions raised by the new management structures, for example.: Are boards the right model for all of the artistic educations? Or: How can the organizational form ensure optimal interaction between boards, rector, ministry, students and, in fact, the entire artistic labour market, where the artists are going to work afterwards? My position therefore remains that we should try to get all these issues properly clarified and have a dialogue with representatives of the educational institutions, the industry and the arts in general. That is why I have asked a wide-ranging committee to make concrete recommendations on how to ensure the future of artistic education, both in terms of organisation and content. I have asked that the committee conclude its work on 31 October 2021 with a view to then convening the rapporteur's group for political discussions on what might become the committee's recommendations for reforming the governance structure. It will be an important reform, which I expect will set a new direction for artistic education, for the benefit of students, for the art life of which the programmes are part and ultimately, yes, for all of us who welcome the works of skilled artists. So I look forward to the further debate and leave the work under way behind the fact that we cannot now vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507130220	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen, rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507130224	City
ParlaMint-DK_20210507130233	I think sir... Jan E. Jørgensen thinks it's called a byste bust The Minister for Culture I think it's a question of where you come from. Is diversity not also a good thing in this context?). I do not think there are any more brief comments. Thank you very much to the Minister for Culture. And we're just gonna get the liquor off. Thank you. Then we should welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur. It's sir. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507130319	Thank you for the floor. So, I have had such a little doubt whether I should even write a speech for today, given that we have now had this debate twice in the Parliamentary Assembly, I suppose, with similar proposals. But then it keeps showing up. We have not even finished the committee's examination of the two previous resolutions, but we are of course happy to take it back. Our position is the same as it has been in the other resolutions where we have dealt with this issue of boards of artistic education, namely that we agree that boards of artistic education would be a very good idea. The recent cases of art works that have ended up in the water and the debate on identity policy at Filmskolen and Kunstakademiet have only highlighted the need for us to look at the management structure of artistic education. It is therefore very good that the Minister for Culture has set up a committee which can analyse the management and organizational challenges of artistic education with both solid artistic knowledge and educational insights, so that they can make a number of recommendations for a better management model for the artistic educations that we saw, I think, will be able to come together very widely here in the Danish Parliament. As I understand it, all parties have also agreed during the previous readings that it is exciting whether some people have changed their minds today to the intention to set up boards on artistic education. Now the discussion is actually beginning to take place in a few months' time, i.e. when we start setting up boards on artistic education. And it is our view that, now that we have set in motion a thorough work, we must also let it be completed before we take a political position on a concrete model of artistic education. I very much look forward to discussing this with the parties of the Folketing when the work is completed in October. But the consequence of this resolution would be to rush things through without having done a proper preparatory work. That is why we are voting against the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507130538	Thank you, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær. There are no brief comments. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507130558	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, I cannot thank either the Minister or the Social Democrat rapporteur for their support for the resolution, and that is of course a pity. This is a debate that we have had. We are talking about the conditions of artistic education, and unfortunately this happens on a rather awkward basis, but sometimes it has to be bad in order to be good. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution on the creation of boards of several artistic educations, including the Film School and the Academy of Fine Arts. And it is now well known that there has been noise in a number of our artistic educations........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But the accident A bust of Frederik V threw in the harbor, assault and harassment, stress, petition for the principal's departure; the examples speak their own clear language, but they are also symptoms of something different and more worrying, namely the absence of a competent management that ensures that there is a connection between the goals and values of the training and what then takes place in everyday life. A board of directors must ensure that the management of the schools regularly receives competent advice for the school's operation and day-to-day running, as opposed to today, when the courses can go to the official work of the Ministry of Culture for guidance and sparring. This is not appropriate, and there are now good examples of this, and I am glad that the proposal on boards has been welcomed, at least by those involved, namely by those on the education system. Boards are already something we know from almost all other publicly funded educational establishments, and there the board contributes in a good symbiosis with management to a healthy management form. In this way, the proposal is inspired by the good experience already gained with boards in the educational world, in terms of ensuring good and competent management and in terms of dealing with the problems that we have looked at, for example. The Academy of Fine Arts, Film School and the Academy of Conservatory. We go to school to get smarter and to learn something not to be disturbed by identity-political ideology, to be offended or stressed or to use our energy to get the principal to resign. I hope there is support for this and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507130836	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We need to get the liquor off before we say welcome to Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507130852	It was an interesting and revealing little exchange of views on the Danish language, which some of us had the opportunity to witness just now, about the pronunciation of the word byste, where one of the rapporteurs in the Chamber advocated that we finally have to call what it is not called, i.e. b-u-ste, in order to break down the word, break down the language. And, of course, this is some crazy nonsense, so in Denmark we have lots of French loan words, which we say after their originator. At least I don't know anyone who goes around looking for a taxacha-uf- before, but a taxi driver. I don't know anyone who eats at resta- u-rant, but restaurant. I don't know anyone who plays on g-u-itar, but on guitar, because ui in French once sounds in-sound. And I don't even know anyone who's jealous, yet somebody who idelologically feels such an inherent urge to smash what exists, and that's what we probably in English call cancel culture, I'd call it destructive culture. Unfortunately, the destructive elements spread around and not only in the Folketing, but also in the artistic educations, which is why an adult needs to come into the room and say: Enough is enough! and that there is something that is right and that there is something that is wrong; not in the sense that as an artist you must not do bad art. There are hundreds of years of horrific examples of this, but that you must at least try to encourage people to get away from the bad destructive art and to the beautiful, provocative or gifted art. That is what we have public artistic education for. That is why we are not just happy with this proposal; we are even so excited that we are co-sponsors of it, because we think it is a good idea that it is not just a single rector, a single person, who must stand up to the wave of destructive thinking which, in particular, flows over the continent and Denmark from the United States, and which undoubtedly has an easy breeding ground in the spiritual terrain created by cultural radicalism in large parts of the artistic environment. And that's why it's good that the principal gets a back cover on a qualified board. Because when not only students, but also department leaders, as we have seen, fall into the temptation to confuse destruction in the art with what should have been brought up, namely to make beautiful or gifted or provocative art, then there must be a board of directors that gives the principal or the other responsible on the training mandate to say: Here and no longer! No more busts in Danish ports! Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507131217	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the SF rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507131243	Thank you for that, President. One of the words that can be difficult is my last name. It is often said that Mølbak is in here, but I hope that this will not change over time, if you say so often enough. And that was not a rebuke by the President. The President said it correctly. It was just a comment on the funny derailment we have today. After all, it's Friday too. I will also refrain from slipping into all sorts of other remarks in relation to breathless art and culture and then, in reality, relate to what we are in favour of here today: the proposal itself. As we have previously discussed here in the Chamber in connection with the motion for a resolution on the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, there are problems and needs for substantial changes in the management structure of many of the artistic educations. Just like the authors of the motion here, I believe that there is a need for a democratisation of the governance of artistic education. SF supports democratisation and the creation of boards of artistic education, but as we have discussed before, the Minister has already set up a working group working to find solutions for implementing new management structures in artistic education. We support this work in the SF, and we look forward to being able to follow it up when the work of the working group is completed later this year because we are awaiting the working group. That is why we cannot vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. Nor do we see it as being totally realistic that we can achieve it in this collection. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507131413	Thank you to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. A brief comment was made, and the rapporteur must be clear. Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507131427	Thank you very much, and I apologise that I first got myself pushed into absolutely the last second. As I understand it, and as I hear it, we agree that we should have boards on artistic education, and what is the main stumbling block of the SF is that it is not expected that it is realistic that it can be in place before this assembly ends. I have to admit that it may well be difficult for us to get ahead of ourselves, so we must at least put the long leg ahead. But if we could now meet in a report that we are saying that it should be by the end of the calendar year rather than the parliamentary year, could we perhaps hope for support from the SF for this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507131515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507131518	As the rapporteur may know, we are already working on two similar motions for resolutions on which we are already working on a report. In fact, I think it hits this part precisely in relation to the boards of artistic education. I think it makes good sense to find an expiry date, and in this way we also say that this is not just a work that must be done indefinitely, but a work that is expected to be completed, and then it is our job to take over and then act on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507131550	Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507131553	I think that sounds really positive, because what we are worried about from the authors is that this is going to be a jar of jelly to just say it as it is where nothing really happens. The need for boards is obvious and therefore we do not believe that we need to examine it from Herod to Pilate and spend an incredible amount of time on it. We can make a decision. The basis is enlightened enough. But, yes, we will hardly make it before the end of the parliamentary year, but then we could reach it before the end of the calendar year. Those are good notes from the SF; I'd like to sign for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507131627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507131631	To that extent, we are quite in agreement. The SF also helped to table a motion for a resolution, among other things. together with the Left, because we believe that it is necessary to initiate the process and just get boards on artistic education. We see this as a very important element in the democratisation and qualification of education and its management. So it's just as important to us, and the Left can sort of count on it is also something we want to look for when we continue. But it's also important to us that we get an OK. consultation process because there are many people who need to adapt to it out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507131702	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Now there are no more brief comments. And then we're just gonna have to get the booze off. Then it'll be Radical Left's turn. Welcome to Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507131725	We fully support the establishment or establishment of boards for artistic education. This makes good sense in parallel with the boards we also look at at other educational institutions, but in fact also in parallel with the boards we look at the cultural, artistic institutions. I have had some doubts as to whether we should vote in favour or vote against or speak in favour of a report, and I would like to put it a little openly in relation to the future. But I can well imagine that we can have a report on this. Sometimes I think we're wasting each other's time a little bit. Now that the opposition and the proposers know that this is a work of which the Minister supports and which the Minister has set in motion a committee work, I am a little surprised that we should also spend time in this Chamber. I know that role; there may not be exactly a contradiction between the parties, but one has the role of the one who breathes the government in the back of the head and makes sure that the momentum is generated. I know that role, but I do think that we have had many such proposals in this Parliament recently, and I really do not think that this brings us so much further or faster to our goal. But let us at last sit together and try to make a report, because there should certainly be no doubt that the government and the parliamentary basis are in agreement with the intention, for the purpose is to set up boards of artistic education. I would also have to say that we are probably on a rather different basis than the Danish People's Party. In the recent debates that we have had on the subject, it has actually been a little difficult for me to know exactly where we have the Conservative People's Party and the Left, because I understand from Mr Conservatives. Morten Messerschmidt from Dansk Folkeparti, that these boards are actually used to enforce a certain view of culture and art and to strike down on it, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt calls destructive currents. I would like to stress that our purpose in appointing boards to these educational institutions is to create an income tax for the political sector. Because I agree that a principal should seek advice and advice from a professionally competent board instead of an official body, because the office is subject to a minister, and then it starts to become too political; then we start to get too close to enforcing an arm's length principle. It may well be that a minister can do so, because it is a minister who respects the arm's length principle, but I also know the Folketing and some of the parties in here well enough to know that there are some parties that do not respect the arm's length principle, among others. Mr. Morten Messerschmidts Dansk Folkeparti; for them, it is precisely the purpose to set up a board of directors to promote a particular view of society. We must then note that there is a fundamental difference of opinion. If, at some point, we are to become more specific in relation to the implementation of a board of directors, it will also be absolutely crucial that it is a professionally competent board, so that one is not appointed according to certain artistic views and not in this way has a particular order, but has a strong artistic professionalism, which is the one one one needs to advise the management of the institutions concerned. And that is also what has to do with these institutions getting the arm's length tax which is so absolutely essential for freedom of spirit and artistic freedom in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507132117	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There's a brief comment, please, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507132124	Thank you. Of course, we can discuss whether what we are doing in Parliament is really just a waste of time. In other words, we can at least note that the Minister for Culture has not succeeded in catching interest in the debate. There are other urgent matters with which the Minister has been busy. And that's fair enough, that's the way it is. But we must and must at least try to convince ourselves that what is going on in this Chamber is important and that there are people who belong out there in the rooms, those that are all about: the voters, the people. What is going on in negotiating rooms, etc., cannot be followed if you are politically interested and committed, so we must at least maintain the illusion that what is going on in this Chamber is important and that when you stand on the platform of the Folketing there are some who follow and listen. So it was just for Mrs. Zenia Stampe's outcome whether it's not just a waste of time. I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507132220	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507132224	But those who follow have certainly become so much wiser that they know now if they did not know in advance that the minister is working in this area and that the opposition knows well, even if it makes the proposal. But if the purpose of the proposal is to make the public aware of this work, then that is fine. This is also the way to look at the work of the Danish Parliament, as such a kind of educational work. And I can only support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507132255	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen for another comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507132258	Yes, public education is important. Well, it's important. It's important that people can keep up with what we're doing in here. I think that is very serious. But then let me ask you something else, because I didn't hear, sir. Morten Messerschmidt says that now it should be Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who was to sit on all boards and dictate the right art. I mean, what I heard was that the symbiosis that can take place when you have a management that is accountable to a board of directors can ensure that things don't get completely off the rails, which we have seen examples of. Does the Radical Left not agree that there have been examples of things getting out of hand?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507132342	Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507132346	Yeah, there are things that have gotten out of hand. I don't know if it could have been avoided if you had a board of directors. But what could at least have been avoided is the long political after-play and the many debates we have had in here, which have been interesting enough, and we have also led them into the columns of the newspapers. But what is so crucial to me is that when such things happen at an educational establishment, it is the educational institution that has to deal with it. And there has been the problem of the lack of board that it was the Minister who had to deal with it. And then it became a political matter, and it is deeply inappropriate because the arm's length principle is so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507132424	There are no more brief comments. Then it's Enhedslisten's turn, here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507132453	Thank you. After all, I very much agree with the two previous speakers. I have to admit that I actually thought that the proposers had drawn this proposal. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left talks about respect for the Folketing, and it is something about that then we can discuss, and then we can present opinions etc. But, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, what is in the Left's proposal? In other words, it is not a matter of the Left making a proposal to introduce boards of directors into the country's artistic education. That is not the proposal that is being made. We could have discussed this and then we could have had it up in committee and taken a position on it and come back to a second reading and vote in favour or against. That is just not the proposal that the Left is helping to make. The proposal we are discussing today is as follows: "The Government is required in this Assembly to submit a bill to ensure the establishment of competent, independent and expert boards on artistic education. This is what the proposal is about: the government is required to put forward a legislative proposal in this parliamentary assembly. Today we write on May 7. If, and I assume the authors of the motion have done so, we are called to an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Culture on Monday or perhaps after this meeting, we can at best make a report on 12 May. Then we can come back the next week and make a report, and then we can come back and vote on the proposal the week after and then there are 2 weeks left in the assembly. And in the course of the two weeks, the government has to make a bill. It has to go through three readings, and I assume that when we talk about respect for Parliament, we also believe that there should be consultation deadlines. Is that realistic? If, at the same time, you want to call the Folketing extraordinaryly during the summer holidays to discuss it, then perhaps it can be realistic. But otherwise it's a parade. There is nothing in this that is realistic, and that is the abuse of the Folketing. It is not that you make a proposal because you want something to be discussed. It is because a proposal is being made for something that the government must do and which it knows to be completely unrealistic. And if the government tried to do that, we would all criticize it for being lawless and hasty, and what do I know? Then, of course, you can say, as sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, that this is just about getting the debate up and that then we can make a story, and then it can come up in the autumn. Yeah, it's possible. But at a meeting in which part of us attended, we heard the Conservative representative tell us, and it was not Mrs Britt Baker, it was another representative of the Conservative People's Party that the reason why it had to go so quickly was because it was due to enter into force after the summer holiday was due to enter into force after the summer holiday! I mean, I'm sorry, it's irresponsible. And this isn't something that raises the dignity of the Folketing if you want it. It's just a waste of all of our time. Especially when we reach agreement. We all agree that there should be boards on artistic education. It may be that there are some disagreements when we are about to put it into practice. I am sure that we are parties that will take greater account of the fact that there are also some students who need to have some influence and that there are probably other parties that do not think it is particularly important for students to have influence. We can have that discussion. But we all agree on what it says here, namely that there must be boards of directors on artistic education. Now I have managed to spend almost five minutes on something that I think, in my best opinion, the proposers should have drawn before it came here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507132928	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First of all, it is from Mrs Britt Baker of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507132935	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard managed to spend 5 minutes talking process • clean process • instead of spending 5 minutes talking about the content of this proposal, tell us all how Enhedslisten sees it put into practice, in addition to having students with it. What does Enhedslisten think of this proposal? Frankly, I find it embarrassing that Søren Søndergaard spends so much time talking about the process, because the rapporteur has been so long in the Folketing that he knows very well that this can go very differently from the fact that we are voting it through after three readings. We can go down to committee and make a report. We do that a lot of times. So I'm sorry, sir. Søren Søndergaard: Tighten up!
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133030	I am fully aware that it is rare for rapporteurs to deal with the proposals made on the parliamentary platform. There is usually a broad opportunity to talk about everything else. I am addressing the proposal that has been put forward: the government is required in this Assembly to table a bill.... and my answer to the proposal is that it is completely hammering out the cost of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133057	Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133101	Then I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard: Does Enhedslisten agree to make a report in the committee, where we then agree to set up boards before the end of the year 2021? Because when we put pressure on here, it is because it is our concern that boards should be set up. And that is because we have experienced so many times with this government, and Mr. Søren Søndergaard himself, that things are pulling out, that things are going in pickles. Excuse me, can I remind you of the media settlement that's still hanging? So, sir. Søren Søndergaard, is Enhedslisten involved in making a report that ensures that we get board before the end of this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133138	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133142	The Enhedslisten has helped to ensure that a committee was set up to come up with a plan on which we will take a position. And if anyone has any doubts as to whether that plan is being complied with and we have heard the Minister repeat it here and insist that this plan must be complied with then we would be happy to take part in making a report on it. Of course we do. Anyone who has followed the slightest bit knows what is Enhedslisten's position on the issue of boards of artistic institutions. We're one hundred percent for that. It's something we work for, it's something we've worked for too long. And then there will probably be a discussion about how exactly they should be composed. We'll take that when we get the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133219	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133223	Thank you. I would like to follow up on my predecessor for more than one reason. So what Enhedslisten's rapporteur spent virtually all his speaking time on was harceling that this cannot be achieved before the Folketing goes on summer holidays. I agree with that. It can't. Now Mr. Søren Søndergaard also said that there has been a corona which has caused various motions for resolutions to be postponed and so on, and when this motion for a resolution was tabled it would have been possible to do so. So it's already been a lot of time. The only question is, how much more time should it take, i.e. how much patience you have. And we don't have the patience to wait for committee and back and forth, and so we'll see what happens on the other side of the summer break. We would like this to have the necessary momentum and that is why we have maintained the resolution so that we can have a debate. We'd like to hear if Enhedslisten will fight with us to get these boards in place... let's say before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133329	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133333	No, I suppose it would be very natural that it is from a coming year of education, whenever it is. But that is what we need to discuss. Now, above all, we need to see how much consensus we can reach on how the boards of directors are to be composed. But we are glad that the Left has joined Enhedslisten's long-standing struggle for boards of artistic education. We think this is a good thing, and that is why we must make use of it. But I'm just gonna have to tell mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, that this proposal was tabled sometime in March, and even there I would say that it was a parade proposal to ask the government to submit a proposal before the end of the Folketing in June, which was to be adopted, because of course it must be consulted and the parties concerned must have the opportunity to express their views on it. That is absolutely crucial. And it has to go through three treatments. Therefore, it had been difficult in any case. I think that the Left and Conservatives and the Danish People's Party should have just made the proposal that those boards should be made, and then we could have discussed it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133435	Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133438	So, I do not know how much voters are really uplifted by this debate on behalf of the people. For Enhedslisten could have chosen to thank the proposers for an excellent proposal • we agree that boards should be set up and finally perhaps a passant mention that it is probably not quite realistic that we reach it before the parliamentary year is finished, because the sun is shining, almost, and we are about to go on summer vacation, so we probably won't, but let's find out. Instead, you stand and harcelate and complain, etc. It is a technicality, whether or not we reach it on this side of the summer holiday. To be honest, it's a little sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133520	Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133525	I have complete respect for the fact that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is a new cultural rapporteur, but it sounds like we have not discussed it in this Chamber before. After all, we have discussed this several times in the previous parliamentary assembly. I can't remember exactly how many months ago it was that we last discussed it, but it's been relatively short since we last discussed it. So if you go back and read about it, there is no doubt about what the views are. And when I am a little irritated, perhaps it is also because I actually really asked representatives of the proposers when we had a meeting of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, Information and Sport whether we really thought we should discuss this proposal. That's what they did.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133558	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the proposers. Here you go, Mrs Britt Baker of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133627	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good debate in many ways. Thank you to the parties that have indicated that they can agree to the content of this proposal. I am actually listening, despite the last debater, to the fact that there is a broad consensus on the content of what is in this proposal today, namely to introduce boards of directors into artistic education. That is a good thing, and that is why I do not think we should allow this matter to be dealt with. I hope that we can agree to land a joint report on the introduction of boards of artistic education by the end of 2021; then we will also have ample opportunity to discuss what the committee brings on the part of the Minister. What is important to us is that this process is speeded up, and this is necessary, because in recent years there has been a lot of unrest on a number of the country's artistic educations, including at the Film School and at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. The unfortunate examples of management failure from the Academy of Fine Arts and the Film School must be avoided as far as possible in the future, and it is the opinion of the proposers' parties that boards of a number of educational institutions will be able to ensure that we ensure much better continuous and competent advice to the management of schools. It should not be the official work of the Ministry of Culture's task to advise and guide the management of an educational institution in the future. With all due respect for the official work, it is not their primary competence. The advantage will be that each institution will hopefully have a competent board to lean on and spar with. In our opinion, this will mean that we do not see the problems of rectors, who are suddenly in total conflict with both political expectations and the school's staff and students, and which we have seen at the Academy of Fine Arts and have also seen very clearly at the Film School. Boards will also not weaken the necessary political influence. We will continue to have to set the framework, and we will continue to have to set the direction of education, just as it does for example. The Royal Theatre and Denmark's Radio. I am of the opinion that it will strengthen the institutions if they have independent boards, and that is why I hope that we can land it here with a report when we go to committee. In any case, I would like to thank the parties that have today indicated that they are supporting the intention, and then we can together stop the government from doing something about this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507133925	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. There are no brief comments. The reason it was Britt Baker who came on after Enhedslisten was that no one was immediately present from New Citizens, LA and KD, so we just skipped a few parties. However, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134018	The debate is open. First, we must welcome the Minister of Culture. Here you go, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134026	Thank you very much. I would like to start by making it absolutely clear that I agree with the intention of this motion for a resolution that our theatres and institutions in the field of performing arts, which are responsible for a regional area, should also have a strong local foundation. The local affinities characterise the Danish performing arts, and it is therefore also important that the Danes can see themselves in the theatres where they lie, where they have their business. The motion for a resolution is so precisely against the institutions which have this particular regional responsibility. In relation to the theatres it is precisely Randers Theatre and Vendsyssel Theatre that have that definition. After all, with the vote agreement in March 2019, the two theatres received an economic boost and went from being regional theatres to being regional theatres under section 5 of the Act of Performing Arts. The promise is mainly due to the theaters' ability to mark themselves in a broad field and in a larger geographical area than the municipalities where the theatres were located and from which the theaters receive grants. However, in the vote agreement, emphasis was placed on what had helped to make the theatres special, namely their local anchoring. So it's a real balance that we have to find in this new construction. We have already done something in the voting agreement to accommodate local anchoring. We decided, for example, that the State and the local authority each appoint two of the six board members. The Minister for Culture appoints the chairman of the board in cases where the State is the largest subsidy and the municipality appoints the chairman in cases where the municipality grants the largest subsidy. In order to further underline the importance of local anchoring, the Ministry of Culture also introduced a rule in the Order that the appointments to the theatres with regional responsibility should also seek local anchoring, including local and local participation, when the appointments are to be made. However, I still agree that it is important and could be good to focus further on the fact that local interests are sufficiently represented, and I would like to help to see if we can do more for that than we are doing today. That is why I also believe that we can have a discussion between the parties of the Folketing to ensure that our theatres and other institutions in the field of performing arts see that the local anchoring is sufficient. So I am also suggesting that the government would like to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, and I will call for a debate with the parties of the Folketing as soon as possible, which the motion for a resolution proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134310	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. There are no brief comments. We're gonna have to get the booze off. Is the Minister gonna blow the whistle? That's good. Then we should welcome another Social Democrat. Here's to the Social Democrat rapporteur, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134333	Thank you. From one board debate to the next. Here perhaps there is a little more meat on, if nothing else, it is at least a new discussion that we have not already had several times with each other. Thank you for your suggestion. For us, it is crucial that culture and art live in all parts of the country. Culture gives us all something to reflect on, gives us food for thought and gives us the great shared experiences that bind us together. It has to be for everyone, no matter where you live in the country. That is why the latest change we made to the act of performing arts was also very good, because we were able to strengthen some more local theatres. During the consultation period and the debate on the legislative proposal, the question we are discussing today also covered a number of issues, namely the composition of the boards. That is also what the SF raises with the motion for a resolution here and which they also raised at the time when we were discussing the legislative proposal, i.e. whether the right balance has been found. And that question is important because the local anchoring of our theaters is important, and it is also important to us in the Social Democratic Party. When a theatre experiences being a § 5 theater and being lifted up and getting more muscles, we have to find the balance where it is still locally anchored. Here is the board, and who sits on the board, and who appoints the board members, after all one of the important handles to ensure the local anchoring of a local theatre. So it's about finding that balance, where on the one hand, which we also think is reasonable, we can demand that we have hand in hand with the means that the state or municipality puts into a theatre, and that they also have representatives on the board, both in terms of following what the money is going to, but also to ensure that there is push for the development of the theatre, and on the other hand have local anchoring, and that the local forces contribute in the local theatre, and that there is local participation. I think this is absolutely crucial, both for the support of the theatre, but also for having relevant offers and that you listen to the wishes that are in the local area. After we all adopted the bill in here, it has also given rise to some debate in some of the municipalities where there have been theatres that have been affected, and that is why we in the Social Democratic Party think it is very wise to discuss whether we have found the right balance or whether there is something that we can do to strengthen the theaters' local anchoring, also in relation to the composition of the boards. That is why we are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134614	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment to be made by Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134626	Thank you. I should like to thank the Minister for his support for the proposal, and I should really have said that to the Minister, but I am sorry about that. But now it's said. I would like to ask the rapporteur in relation to the part relating to the boards and the composition. For me, this became somewhat paradoxical. You actually do it very well out there locally and are recognised for it, and you get 3 million for the two theatres. kr. More. And it wasn't because they didn't get subsidies before, but with the 3 million. kr. Suddenly, seats go away from people who helped carry them forward to exactly that success. I am thinking of this as a paradox, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on this, and whether one would look at the possibility of allowing local representation on the boards as well. I understand that we should not treat the two local theatres. But it is in fact also a fundamental discussion for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134721	I agree that it is a paradox that those who have helped to create the success that makes it possible, as Section 5 theater, to be lifted up and receive a larger grant, so that in reality it ends up having to leave the board. On the other hand, it is not the case that you can compare it, but it is just an example that if a company grows and grows, it will also be a natural process there to pull some forces into the company's board of directors, which is used to directing and directing a larger type of business. Therefore, when you get more muscles, it can make sense to get some more competences or new competences into the board, which may have some other perspectives on how to run a theatre of that size. But I agree that this is a paradox, and that is one of the things I think we can discuss, i.e. whether we can do something there. It could also be that some solutions could be found where, alongside the board, there was in fact the possibility of establishing wider forums to also have local stakeholders and forces close to the theatre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134818	Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134821	Thank you. I agree that there must be a balance, because it is clear that some kind of supervision must also be carried out. But for many of these boards there are also municipal representatives and significant municipal subsidies, and they do not have a majority. So somehow it's about balance and a variety of interests and, in fact, perhaps also about the idea that we shouldn't steer and control quite so much centrally from, that is, that we can give it a little free. This does not mean that we have to give up completely in terms of having representation and some kind of supervision. We have framework agreements, etc. But the fact that the state must have a majority absolutely can be a challenge, so I would like to hear the rapporteur's consideration of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134900	Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134903	Well, I agree there's a balance. And I think it is very good that we should now sit down and discuss whether we have found the right balance. Then, in principle, I agree that we have a very great responsibility here to be careful not to create too many rules that bind too much out in reality and that may sometimes end up hindering the local driving force. On the other hand, I also think it is legitimate for the state to put money in a theater that the state has also been represented on the board. So we have to see if we have found the right balance or if there is something we can adjust.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134935	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507134954	Thank you for that and thank you to the Socialist People's Party for tabling this resolution, which is not so socialist that we in the Left cannot see ourselves in it. We can really do that. We could even have been co-sponsors of the proposal if it were to be, because we went together, the Left and the SF, to point out the problem in the comments to the report on Bill No. L 20, amendment of law on performing arts. But it is not copyright that we are discussing today. As you know, I am a new rapporteur in this area and perhaps something has happened in my past which means that we are not co-sponsors; I do not know, and it does not matter. I don't want it to take us apart. It is only gratifying that we agree that there should be better local representation on the boards of regional theatres, venues, etc. With L 20, some new rules were introduced for the composition of the boards of these 5 theatres, and these are the rules we would like to see changed, because the rules do not guarantee the local anchoring that the bill otherwise proposed. Of the six directors, three are appointed locally by the municipality and employees, while the other three are appointed by the Minister of Culture and the Danish Arts Foundation. The composition rules mean that local board members who have worked hard to contribute to the theaters' status of § 5 theatres cannot remain on the new boards unless the Minister of Culture chooses to appoint them precisely, and there is no guarantee that the minister will do so. The SF therefore proposes that, for example, extends the boards by two seats. That is one way to do it, and it is also a model we can see ourselves in if enlargement is made voluntary. Because it is not certain that there is a need for enlargement on all boards, and we should not start using one kind of central governance to tackle another kind of central governance. However, the Left supports the proposal as a starting point and we look forward to the future work of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507135157	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507135202	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur, both for the speech and for the support. Of course, we are happy about this in the SF, and in fact it was also some of the things we were promised together when we adopted the coinage of this agreement back in 2019. In fact, this is a continuation, and I must also say that I agree with the view that if we are to extend it by two more seats, it must be a voluntary option and not a shell. In fact, it is also about trying, in general terms, to get a little more confidence in the agreements we make with the many different cultural institutions. Now, in this motion for a resolution as such, the SF has highlighted it with the theatres, but we really want to see a process where we can give it a little more freer out there. I hope the Left too will support this and perhaps have some ideas on it too, and I will try to ask the rapporteur a few questions about this, i.e. whether there are any other considerations as to what we can actually change in order to secure that local anchoring, so that it is not just a pointer appointed by the Minister and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507135303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507135306	Well, it's central that they are the ones who have engaged in the individual institutions, who can also help to sit on the boards, i.e. these local fiery souls. That is something I think we have seen a great many examples of with some who can really make a difference. We are very much in favour of freedom. Hopefully that is not a surprise to anyone in this Chamber, and that also applies to cultural institutions. However, with freedom comes responsibility, that is freedom under responsibility, and that is exactly what we also talked about under a previous agenda item, that is to say, the interaction between a board and a management that makes you evolve together without things getting out of hand, because there is no one to get things on the right track.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507135401	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. Then we welcome DF's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507135424	Thank you, President. Also in the Danish People's Party we share the wish that the so-called § 5 theatres, i.e. the regional theatres, can have a stronger local anchoring, not least because the theatres have very often grown out of a local engagement, where those who have been involved in the whole start-up phase are squeezed out when the theatre is a reality and you have to put together the board, unless of course the municipality and the employees choose exactly those who have been involved in the start-up phase, i.e. the local forces. So that makes a lot of sense. Whether it should be a requirement to do so or whether it should be an option, we are not entirely clear. However, since the resolution, in the way it is formulated, does not take a position on it either, but only wants negotiations to be convened so that we can have a debate, we in the Danish People's Party can see ourselves in this and therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507135536	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is also a brief comment from Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507135541	Yes, thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech and also for the support. I am, of course, very pleased about that. I would just like to stress, and I said this to the previous speaker, that for SF it is important that this is an opportunity and that it will not be another central decision that we are laying down on it. And it's really just our first proposal on how to solve it with this kind of awkward composition. In fact, we would also like to look at some of the other compositions of. In other words, the proposal is really about looking at what, in relation to both the theatres and the venues etc. is in the portfolio under the Ministry of Culture and how we can set the local institutions even more free. And there, of course, I would hope that DF will be on that journey and go constructively into this. I would, of course, like to ask the rapporteur a little more about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507135629	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507135630	We can do that to a great extent. Well, getting the opportunity to get more local board members thinks we're quite right. So I do not think there can be any contradiction in this area between us and the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507135650	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Then it'll be Radical Left's turn. Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507135710	Thank you. I think it was such a positive surprise that the government agreed to the resolution. So do we. It is, of course, a rather open resolution that lies ahead of us, and I think that we can actually agree on a proper model across the right and the left, because we all support a greater local anchoring. I think it's important. We saw it in connection with the concrete regional theatres, where I think Randers in particular was very sorry to lose their local representatives. That's also where Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk was written with eggs. That's because, sir. a So I think there is a greater risk that we will call Kåre Mølbak Kåre Mølbæk than to call Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk Charlotte Broman Mølbak. Well, it's Friday afternoon, and we're having a good time in Parliament. I'll tell those of you who are watching out there. But I also think that the point has actually been made subsequently, because what has happened after the vote agreement and the discussion we had on the subject a few years ago is that there are several regional theaters who have expressed their desire to work towards becoming regional theatres in the long term. And there I have actually heard from one of these theaters that they simply gave it up when they saw how the board was appointed. Because it is so important for them to be locally anchored, and they have such good board members that they appreciate so much. So if a regional appointment could lead to the loss of that board and then had to have a board appointed that they could not similarly secure the local anchoring of, then it was actually not attractive for them. So I think that's just the point and the background to this proposal, so it's just a good Friday. Thanks to the SF for making the proposal, and thanks to the government for listening. It doesn't happen that often, does it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210507135942	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. I just wanted to say that there was a time when Johannes Møllehave said to me: I am so afraid to say the Gospel Licas. And then you are almost about to say it; so it almost confuses more that you say the opposite of what to say. But now it is the case that Charlotte Broman Mølbæ has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140000	Thank you. I'm really sorry that I've gotten all messed up in this. I would like to thank the rapporteur very much for both the speech and the support and, in fact, also for the support for my last name. But I actually think that's some really important point. Because it is true that I live in Randers and come from Randers, I also come from Randers City Council, and then it was quite a surprise to me how much control one really insists from in here to have with the relatively small amount of funds that one sends out in view of how much money they have in the municipalities and that, moreover, it is also done in other ways centrally from here. Although it is of course true and natural that I have talked to the theatre, it is also more about a fundamental discussion of how much it really is that we have to control centrally from in here: to what extent should we put an end to the fact that exactly the local forces that can help to make the theatre grow or the venue grow can continue that work when they do it really well? So I would like to sign for that discussion and say thank you for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140110	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140112	Yes, but vice versa, it may also be very understandable that when you get a larger grant and become a regional theater, the state would like to see a little more. But that can be done by appointing some board members, but of course not by sitting on the board as a whole. That is not the case either, but to sit on the majority and thus on the control does not need to be done. Then there is something else that I forgot to mention in my rapporteur's speech, but which I want to ask about, and which I think we should follow up in committee, namely this with the regional venues, because that is mentioned in the motivation. I have to admit that I have not been able to understand what the process of being appointed to them really is, but it is actually obvious, when we look at this, that we are just going across other areas of cultural life and looking at whether there are any similar issues, because there will be exactly the same need for a local anchoring. I simply do not remember how they are appointed. I don't think they'll be appointed by the state in those regional venues, but we'll just have to see if there's a similar need. And then I would just like to say that, of course, we would also like to take part in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140222	Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140223	Well, I look forward to the work that needs to be done, also to use the radical forces and input to how we can do this better. Because it is true that the regional venues have a completely different structure, where there actually is no such framework. It is interesting, of course, why it is that some artistic institutions are doing so, so that they are awarded a substantial subsidy while others are not. I would just like to have a discussion on that. When you look at some of the other theatres with special functions, you will see that there is also a massive representation appointed by the Ministry of Culture, the Danish National Palaces and the Danish Cultural Authority. And I think it might be interesting to have a look at whether we can open up more in terms of getting local forces into the area precisely to ensure the natural flow that needs to be. That is also what applied to the regional theatres before they were transformed: that it was mainly locals who sat there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140311	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140312	Yes, the boards for the regional theater are, as I recall, self-appointed. After all, it's insanely interesting to talk about boards. I think it was a few years ago, 10-20 years ago, when it became very modern, that you had to have some management in, that you had to have some law in. And it can actually also be useful, I think, on some of these boards. But I really think it might be a little interesting to have it reversed again, because some of what has at least become clear to me over the last ten years is that, just as the local representation is important, it is also really important that there is a professional gravity on the boards. There I think they may have been a little majorised, because some in here have been so preoccupied with it is probably from before our time to send in all sorts of other competences. So a general revisit of the discussion about board posts will be really exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140405	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Zenia Stampe That's too bad, but now my son's birthday, so it suits me pretty well). Congratulations, you'll be home early. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140435	Thank you. Now I read proposals relatively close to text, and I can see that it says here that: The Danish Parliament instructs the government to call the parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss how to ensure better local representation on the boards of regional theatres, venues and events. We think this is a good proposal and we are pleased that the Minister has already accepted it and has thereby fulfilled the purpose of the proposal being put forward. Having said that, it is clear that there will be a discussion on how to ensure this better local representation. And it's like for us a must and a starting point, both when we talk venues, and when we talk regional theaters. However, it is clear that it is faced with the trade-off of professionalism not necessarily, because people who are locally designated may be just as professional as people who are not. However, we have a task to do to ensure that the boards that are there actually have the professionalism that is necessary, among other things. to stand up to bad leadership. Because sometimes it is also necessary to be able to say no. Now I don't mention Fredericia Theatre... so to say, no, this one doesn't work. This requires professionalism, and we must find some model in which professionalism can go hand in hand with the fact that you have better local representation than you do today. So we look forward to the discussion we can have when the Minister calls.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140622	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is also a brief comment in this case. Here you go, Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140627	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur, both for the speech and for the support. I am, of course, very pleased about this, and I would also like to say that I very much agree with the rapporteur that this is also about professional competences. And in relation to the professional competences, it may well be that local people actually know who has them. That is where it can be a problem if only the state can find the right professional skills. So I think it's really important that we go deeper than just taking my proposal, where I say that you could choose to solve this by expanding by two more seats, so that we actually have a look at the questions: how much do we really have to go in and central government? And can we create some other kinds of framework, which in fact also sets a fine framework around the board section, where you can find those that fit into exactly that? Because it can be very different, depending on where you are located. There is a very large difference between a theatre in one of the largest cities and a theatre a little further out in the province, also in relation to venues etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140728	I fully agree with that remark. Well, we ourselves in our work at some point have thought of one thing as representatives. It is not to say that this is a solution, but we must find the model that ensures that we combine local anchoring, local representation and professionalism. And that will then be the bound task of the work we need to achieve.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140756	Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140758	Yes, I fully agree with the rapporteur on that. I also think that some of what is important to say in relation to these local fiery souls, and they can have many different titles and competences with them, is that it is typically some who go elsewhere if there are no seats for them on the boards. Then they get involved in something else. So we must also recognise that it is really important for cultural institutions that those who sit on the boards are also some who have a value for them in the work they do. And then it can be said: it is also quite important in terms of management, also because it is the board that hires and dismisses the management. So in this way it is really important to have a look at whether there is a balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140836	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140840	Well, I'll just leave that as the conclusion of our exchange here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140845	The last rapporteur before the author of the motion is Mrs Britt Baker of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507140851	Thank you for that and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting forward this sympathetic proposal to ensure a local anchor for regional theatres and venues. It is always good to strengthen local anchoring, and it is often in local communities that ideas arise. This is where the souls of fire live, this is where entrepreneurship often lives best, both because you see a problem that needs to be solved, but also because you cooperate much more and are used to making things happen. As I read and understand the proposers' suggestions, it is precisely the combination of local anchoring and expertise in the relevant subject areas that you want to focus on. I think it is fine that we have a discussion on the composition of the board members of regional theatres and venues. We must ensure that local forces can be deployed, and we must at least ensure that local forces are not excluded. That was precisely the purpose of the legislation we adopted in this area. We are in favour of a debate and the Conservative People's Party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507141000	Thank you. There is also a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507141002	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and support. I am delighted, of course. I would also like to look forward to the work we are going to have in order to ensure local representation both on the board and in the work locally. It is also the case that on these boards it is often in some of those who have these very tight frames around them so that it becomes political tips that are elected. At least you can see that in some places. I would like to know whether the Conservative People's Party has any thoughts about this, about what could be done, about who should sit on the boards. And now, a little earlier, we have talked about the professional content, but we could actually talk about the local representation as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507141050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507141051	First of all, we think it is important that it is done locally, because that is where you know about the personalities and the strengths that exist. Then it is clear that there must be a diverse composition of the board. There we have seen the inappropriateness that is now, when some of the good forces are often forced out. And that is certainly not the point of the proposal. Whether it's one point the other point, I don't think we from Christiansborg should interfere. In fact, I believe that we need to set a framework, but we also need to be careful that we do not set too strict a framework. We must give free rein to the local setting up of that board, and we must have confidence that it is local, you have the expertise to find out what is best for the specific venue, what is best for the concrete theatre. Because it can be very different depending on where the theatre is, and depending on whether it is a big or small theater or venue. So, for me, we need to have a discussion on this, but a lot needs to be done locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507141201	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Okay, I'm gonna have to get a drink. That's good. I also do not see anyone from the New Civil or Liberal Alliance and the Christian Democrats at this stage, and so we should welcome the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507141230	Thank you for that, President, and it'll probably be almost the last time, and then you won't have to bother with that name. First of all, I would like to thank you for today's discussion of a proposal which may seem rather small, but which, in fact, also has a very important meaning out there locally. I think it's very nice to hear that there are so many parties that are positive about this. We need art and culture today more than ever and fortunately we have many strong cultural institutions around the country which ensure the regional spread of cultural services, and here I am thinking in particular of some of the regional theatres for which we ensured this status and a greater responsibility and resources for this year, and it was a victory that we secured more local and regionally anchored cultural offerings to the Danes, a dissemination of the performing arts. Unfortunately, however, the very same agreement has meant that some of the local forces and fiery souls who sat on the boards of the well-functioning theatres, and who were just rewarded by their operation, had to be replaced. The rules for the regional theatres, as we have talked about in the past, state that the board consists of three members elected centrally • two from the Ministry of Culture, one from the Danish Arts Foundation • two members appointed by the municipality and one elected by the staff of the theatre. Then there isn't much more room for local representation there. I would like to say that it is important for the SF that we supervise state funds. But in our optics it does not have to be a supervision that takes place through a majority on a theatre board or on other boards of cultural institutions. If the board of directors of the regional theatres is compared with, for example, the Board of Directors of the People's Theatre, we can actually see that in this theatre this expansion of eight members has been made, of which only two members have been appointed centrally by the Ministry of Culture. And the budgets for the People's Theatre are compared to the budgets for regional theatres, such as: Vendsyssel and Randers Theatre, you can see that it gets more in operating grants from the Ministry of Culture. So you can at least say that there is an example that has a different construction if we think of that part about supervision. It must, of course, be possible to continue monitoring state funds while at the same time setting up a wider local and representatively anchored theatre board, and that is why the SF has tabled this resolution to instruct the government to call the parties of the Folketing for discussions so that we can ensure better local representation, but not only for theatres. In fact, we would like to see that this could be the beginning of a movement in relation to the boards of cultural institutions in general. The agreement on regional theatres is an example of how we in the SF believe that we can be much better at giving power back to them as it is about. From the outset, we have thought that the current board structures were problematic because they limit the possibility of a local anchoring, which in fact is a central part of it, we also discussed the task and identity of these institutions in the past. So it's a paradox. In fact, in the SF we want local institutions to be local, and we believe that when the agreement places emphasis on regional and local belonging, it will actually become directly contradictory when the implementation of the agreement means that the local forces and the fire souls have to leave the board work. And I would like to make it clear that in SF we have great faith in a decentralized management. We trust that local cultural institutions will best know where to go, and it makes sense to qualify those decisions locally. At the same time, it is also these local forces that are helping to open the door to new opportunities and partnerships, and here it is important that a flourishing creative environment can exist and where there are not too many restrictive frameworks that have been decided centrally in here from Christiansborg. There must be a fine balance with the possibility of local action and freedom, and then, of course, there is also a balance in relation to our supervisory obligations. We want work in the Ministry of Culture, which will examine the various structures in the cultural institutions and, in cooperation with industry actors, find new and better ways to ensure local representation and action. And we can already start with the board composition in the regional theatres, if only then give the possibility of an extension of a board. If local and regional cultural institutions are seriously to be local and regional, as it says, we must ensure that this is reflected in the boards of directors. We have heard a lot about proximity reform in this Chamber we have also heard it from the government and it should also apply to the cultural area, and right here we can take the first steps. So, of course, I hope that we will be able to agree when we get into the discussions, and again I would like to thank you from this point of view in relation to the broad and broad support that has been given to our proposal today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507141739	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507141742	Thank you. Thank you for the debate and thank you for the proposal, and it is good that there is a broad consensus that we must now sit down and look at it. After all, we have been talking about the different balances we have to find, and there is both some supervision, and there is, as we talked about, also quality, professionalism, and bringing new perspectives to the local area. But then, you might say, there is another element that we need to ensure in this work, and that is that we do not end up in a place where the local theatre itself appoints its own board members, so that we also retain the checks and balances that are also on the board of directors of the theatre. Does the rapporteur not agree with that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507141819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507141820	In fact, that is why we think that the proposal to allow for an extension of two seats is a beautiful construction, because it has the combination of several parts. Because I also think it is good that there are criteria for possible legal knowledge, but also for professional knowledge. So I think that is absolutely essential. But when it is only what is going to matter in a board context, then we think that the balance is going to be poor. I would also say, for example, when we look at these theaters who obtained the status to be regional theaters, that they then made some way without having these tight frames over them, which meant that they got a little more in state subsidies. But 3 million. kr. It is not something I think tips the balance, at least if we think of the economic part. However, it should be borne in mind that in the past there was much greater freedom in relation to the appointments. I know that there is also a demand for local representation of city council politicians when they put in a grant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507141933	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210507142003	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Monday, 10 May 2021 at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
