ParlaMint-DK_20210512100002	The meeting is open. Members of the Folketing Marcus Knuth (KF) and others I have been informed that they want to withdraw the following proposals: proposals for a parliamentary decision to ensure recognition of several unrecognized religions. B 222). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512100029	The debate is open. It's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512100047	Thank you for that, President, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting a very important debate on today's agenda. This is undoubtedly a subject in which we continue to have major imbalances, where we have major challenges and where we need to take political action. We can see that stereotyped choices continue to be made on a wide range of courses. This is particularly true of our welfare programmes, where there are clearly most women and STEM programmes, where there are clearly most men. So you might ask: is that necessarily a problem? Yes, it is, both when it is linked to a shortage of labour, which the proposers highlight in the motion for a resolution, but it is also in the sense that I want a country where each child and every young person grows up and has the freedom to be exactly who you are and to be interested in what you are doing and where you are not just because of your gender or background or your parents, or where you have grown up, limited in your options and are expected to belong to a certain box. We need to get all the talents into play. We cannot afford to lose skilled professionals because they are faced with the expectation that they are somewhere else than where they actually have an interest in education or society. Fortunately, something is happening, and we must remember to dwell on this in a discussion like this. There is also movement in the field of education, for example. at the IT University, at DTU, which has succeeded in getting more women into technical education. We also have examples in welfare education, for example. on UC SYD, where more men have been admitted, and of course we have to build on that experience. It is both about what we do in the field of education, but it is also about our whole approach as a society. It's about how we raise our children. It's about how we talk about different professionals. For example, is an engineer? Always a man you as a child are met by in books and literature? What kind of stereotypes are we meeting from? What kind of stories are we told? And what is it that the individual child is struck by and turned in a direction solely on the basis of his or her sex? This is an extremely important discussion and we must have the overall discussion. We must have the general considerations, but we must also take action, and we should be very happy to do so here and now. For me, a commission is not enough. So, to me, a commission in its basic essence is something where we put some people to discuss what the challenges really are; what the potential solutions really are, because often after a number of years to return, and then we can take political action. I really believe that we are dealing here with an area where we agree on the challenges, where we know what the problem is, where we have knowledge to stand on. That is why I think it is worthwhile trying to give impetus to some things here, but the government would prefer to focus more on a group of experts who can come up with concrete solutions within a clear timeframe. At the same time, I would also like, and this is also one of the things I started by saying that the discussion is going to be wider than what the resolution points towards and where it is not just about seeing the issue of gender imbalance in educational choices linked to where there is a shortage of labour. I think, of course, that even if we had enough nurses, it would still be a problem if, as a young man, you were sitting in Hjørring and would like to read to a nurse, but could see that the team in the professional training in Hjørring was 100 percent full of women and therefore did not feel that it was a place you belonged to. So whether we had infinitely with nurses in Denmark we have not, and therefore it is an additional problem • the lack of freedom in educational choices would at the same time be something we should be talking about. It is not only about providing enough labour for a labour market, but it is also about the real sense of equal access to education and that you can unfold your potential, whoever you are, and even if you do not fit into the standard box. Now we are talking about education here, but the choice of education and having a wrong education system based on the gender divide are, after all, pulling threads into a whole range of other things. This is also the foundation of the unequal labour market, where we have problems with equal pay, where we have problems with lack of diversity, diversity, where some of the most pressing challenges we are discussing here come from men and women studying in different educations. Thank you, therefore, for putting the discussion on the agenda, but let us spread it out. Let us look at all gender-difficult education and not just where there is a shortage of labour. In addition, I also believe that there is an additional element in which I, as Minister of Education, am at least very concerned. It is about what kind of study environment is involved, for example. in nursing training in Hjørring; it is not because I know that you feel bad if you should go in there as a man, so it is not to hang anyone out. But I have tried to stand in front of a whole team where there were only women, and they will certainly accept if a man comes, but we also have examples where the opposite is true. We can see that where the study environment is most challenged, where you feel most harassed, exposed to who you are, there is where the imbalance is greatest. It means something for well-being, for study environment, for association with the programmes. We have studies that point to the fact that there is a gender imbalance in education being important to both apostasy and well-being in the gender minority, and it is whether it is men or women who are the minority in this context. It doesn't just trade you know what, you shouldn't be limited to this box. You are in your own potential welcome, no matter what you are passionate about in your search. If you then actually seek and with your choice of education, so to speak, make yourself a gender minority, then it is also a matter of experiencing a study environment where you thrive and where you also have a framework where you conduct the study. Otherwise, the effect on the gender-separated labour market is certainly missing. Overall, there is support for this to be something that we are discussing much more, but also support for the fact that this is actually something on which we are acting, and that is why the government's line is that we do not support the proposal. Instead, we would very much like to see an expert group that can come up with concrete recommendations more quickly on how to ensure a better gender balance in higher education • an expert group that sees the issue in a broader perspective and is more ambitious, but which can also more quickly lead to more real equality in the education system. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512100924	Thank you. There are requests for short remarks. First it is Mrs Fatma Øktem, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512100926	Thank you very much. To those who come along and who may not know the history of this, I'd like to give you a brief update. This motion for a resolution has been under way for two months... for two months... the Minister could call the Left for a dialogue if the Minister had chosen to focus on this area. We would have liked to have seen that because then we could have spent that time sitting and debating what is missing from our proposal or what the government would like to work on. No, last night there was an article in which the Minister and the Support Parties announced that they would like to have a group of experts in this area. I welcome it. But I would have liked the government to cooperate a little more, as we have been on the way for two months with this motion for a resolution. But having said that, I would like to say that it is quite correct what the Minister says it is a huge problem that we have so gender-separated an education system and then gender-separated a labour market that recruits from there. One of the things I need for the only thing I have read is the post that has been written: Where is it in relation to the young men? After all, we would like to focus on the fact that it is one in ten boys who receive no more education than primary school. Yes, please! ) Where does the government see them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101051	Yes, please! Now we get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101053	In other words, we are looking at a broad perspective of where the imbalances exist. And that is, whether it is inequalities where women are the minority, or imbalances where men are the minority, because for me and for the government, it is about every young person having a genuinely free choice and that the inequalities that a gender-abated education system draws into our labour market apply both ways. This applies both where there is a predominance of women and where there is a overweight of men, and Denmark sticks out in relation to comparable countries. In other words, we are much more gender-separated than the countries with which we compare ourselves, and therefore this is an urgent matter. This applies both in terms of education and in terms of children's upbringing, in fact from what you meet with educators in day care institutions who expect something sex stereotyped, but also up through primary school and up through our higher education and all the way into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101200	Fatma Øktem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101201	Thank you very much. I wish the Minister had read the motion for a resolution, because we are talking precisely about an overall perspective on things from day-care to labour market. So I am pleased that the Minister agrees with that. One thing I can also read is that it says that it is not knowledge that we lack. However, the study carried out in the Ministry of Education last points out precisely that it is the knowledge we lack. So does the Minister and the Government have any knowledge that has come after them? For there it was precisely found that we do not have enough knowledge in this area and that there is not enough knowledge sharing. So has something happened since the last survey?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101243	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101244	So, first of all, I do not actually understand the accusation that as a minister I should not have bothered to read the motion for a resolution. Of course I have read the motion for a resolution. I've dealt with it in substance. I've signed up for you to put an important item on the agenda. And then, along with the government's support parties, I have put forward an alternative way forward, because we think this should go faster than what a commission is. And a commission is a heavy tool that takes a long time. We want more action, and that is why we are choosing an alternative path with our commandments. We share the ambition, but we need to move faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101325	Thank you. Then it's Sikandar Siddique, UFG. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101327	Thank you to the President, thank you to the Minister. It was actually refreshing to hear the part of the speech where the minister said: Action action right now. I really, really liked that. That is why I am also sorry that the Left and the Government have not supported the many proposals made by the Free Greens in this Chamber over the last few months. But I have a question for the Minister. The Minister, along with the support parties, will set up a group of experts, I understand. What is this group of experts supposed to do that we do not already know? We know that there is a 2017 report from the Ministry of Education, which comes with a host of recommendations and conclusions. So I would like to hear what the Minister thinks there is a lack of knowledge and research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101429	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101430	This is such an important issue that we must continue to collect new knowledge and research, and so do we in our country. However, I believe that the way forward with a group of experts has the strength that a group of experts can quickly gather the knowledge we have into a common overview and give some very concrete recommendations on the basis of some members of a group of experts who also come with my own experience. And so we can really skip a long phase, where a commission will typically dive down and try to start analyses and research. I simply do not think we are there. I do not think that is what we need. Then I would like to stress that, as Minister of Education, of course, I have a look at this, no matter what we do and decide with the discussion here. It has already been on the agenda from my first day in the ministerial chair, among other things. to give more money for our training in STEM to absorb more women. I have visited the young women at the IT University to see how they are out recruiting young women in high schools, etc. etc. There's a big and long focus that can be built upstairs with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101538	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101539	Thank you for the floor. Free Greens will support a group of experts. We can also support a Commission. Well, we want concrete action right now. I have summarised some recommendations from the report and some research: skills development for teachers and educators, strengthened guidance, better psychological assistance, focused recruitment of under-represented identities, focus on individual work and learning methods, structural improvements, etc. etc. Does the Minister think that, at least with the knowledge we already have, we should immediately start implementing some of those proposals? Does the Minister intend to make concrete proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101621	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101622	I think that is the whole reason why it should be a different path from a Commission. It is precisely because we have therefore the answer yes, it is a question of it going faster. And that is why we are rejecting the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101643	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101644	Everywhere in the real world, we fight against the company culture that is not expected here, the nih syndrome. And it is impossible to listen to all the calculated rejections that come from the government when others come up with a good proposal; then ministers stand for 10 minutes to 15 minutes on the platform and talk and talk far into an argument that might as well end up in a conclusion that is 'yes' instead of a 'no'. My dear Minister, does it not matter whether we call it a Commission or a group of experts? I guess what it's all about is what it's all about, what it's all about, what it's all about. I guess that's what this is about. And you could have talked to the opposition about that when they take the trouble to come up with a proposal instead of putting themselves in their own room and then talking to the support parties and then doing a tackle from behind it is not nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101750	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101751	A tackle from behind anyway? This is really just a different way to go. There is a huge difference between a commission and a group of experts in its basic essence. Then you can say that you can call something a commission and let it work as a group of experts. I'm not going to deny that. But as a tool, there is a very big difference between whether you choose to go the Commission or the expert way. Besides, there's a real disagreement about how far we go about this problem. We only need to focus on where it is, for example. Is there a shortage of labour, or should we go further? Should we also focus on the study environment or only on education choices? There are quite real concerns about the proposal that lies, which I think we should spread out and which I think we should have to move faster. At the same time, it is a great recognition that this is an important issue, and I am pleased that we will have the opportunity to discuss it. But to say that it is a back-to-back tackle which is not based on any real disagreements at all, I simply cannot recognize.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101849	Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101850	No, but Minister, I have been there for so long that I know the rules of the game, and they are such that when there is a proposal from the opposition, the government always ensures that it makes its own proposal because it will not vote in favour of the opposition's resolution. And sometimes it's to get long buns of apologize for the phrase "so that you can't just acknowledge that there's a proposal that you actually think addresses an important issue." That is what the Minister is doing, and then you come to a conclusion that is no, because in the darkness of the night you have hurried yourself to make your own. Why can we not change this culture here in the Folketing so that we recognise each other's proposals and then work with them? I guess we're gonna end up with an agreement anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101929	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101930	I fully acknowledge the importance of this agenda. I have also praised the Left for putting it on the agenda. I would like to repeat that. But that doesn't mean that our solutions one by one are the same, and they're not in this context, and that's why it becomes a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512101945	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that means that after some cleaning we start the rapporteur's round. Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102009	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Left for raising an important debate on a gender-based education system. I think the debate is entirely legitimate and I think the debate is very, very important, so first of all thank the Left for taking the initiative on it. In the Social Democratic Party we fully agree with the proposers of the intention behind the proposal, just as we agree with the challenges outlined in the motion for a resolution. Gender still plays a very, very important role in our young people's choice of education, and it is not only a pity for young people who may not have exploited their potentials and interests, but it is also a pity for society that we are missing out on good skills. That is why we support the proposers in the need for a greater focus on the challenges, the need for us to address them and perhaps also to learn a little bit more about them. The proposers propose to set up a Commission to examine and make recommendations in the light of the listed challenges, but I do not believe that a Commission is the best tool in this case. For a Commission is time-consuming and then you can discuss what you think a Commission's task is or what a Commission's task is not, but in our optics in its basic form it aims to delve deeper into concrete issues in order to identify challenges and solutions. We know, as the Minister said, what some of the challenges are, and that is why I and the Social Democrats also believe that we need to get into work as quickly as possible, and I therefore agree with the Minister that it would be wiser to look at other options. A group of experts, on the basis of the existing knowledge we have, would already be able to deliver faster and more concrete political solutions, and that is why we in the Socialist Group also believe that the intention behind the proposal is not being sufficiently lifted by looking at the demarcations set out in that motion for a resolution. Firstly, the solutions must not only be confined to training where there is a shortage of labour, but it is a challenge that covers our education system broadly, and that is why we must look at education in a broad sense and not only at education where there is a shortage of labour. Secondly, the proposers will examine the problem by looking only at admissions to training. I think it is equally important that we look at some of the structural challenges which have an impact on the gender balance of the education system, and therefore I agree with the Minister to look at some of the challenges that exist in relation to, among other things, the gender balance of the education system. well-being and retention on the courses. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands, but we agree with the intention and the need to find solutions, and that is why we support the Minister's proposal on how to address this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102305	There is a brief comment on Mrs Fatma Øktem, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102307	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. Since it was, like, news that I was just reading this morning that there would be a group of experts, I am very interested to hear a little about what it is made up of. In other words, we are proposing that it should be very broad, that it should be from the day-care institution and the whole chain up and up to the labour market, that we should have professional organisations with us, and that it is not just specific subjects. But now it is the case that the very gender-separated professions are also the areas where we have the greatest lack of work and where we lack labour the most. So these two things are kind of connected. So when we're told it's mostly related to the places where we lack labour, yes, it's also because the gender division is the most important. But we have also said that in the professions where women enter and where they are male-dominated, there is a drop-out of up to 75%. We would like to have that looked at, and well-being, culture, communication, everything we would like to have looked at. But it's a little weird, and I'm sorry I'm a little surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102416	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102417	The questioner should not apologize for that, as such, the questioner is welcome to do so. In other words, we have said that the proposal with the working group is to look at higher education, also because there will be some other track in some of the other areas that both the Minister for Children and Education and the Minister for Employment and Gender Equality are looking at. However, it is only gratifying to hear that we agree that this is a problem that goes further in several areas of our education system, and it may well be that I myself interpret what the questioner says. But I think the most important thing now is that we get some quick solutions to how we get some political tools to solve at least some of this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102500	Fatma Øktem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102501	I'm surprised you don't want to listen to everyone. Now I'm told it's in higher education. What kind of knowledge do we have that isn't there? So what kind of information do the Social Democrats and the government and the support parties have, where they can say that they are going to start? What is it? Because we don't know. The business community wants to help solve this problem, we need to look at the day institutions and the primary school we need to look at the labour market. So I would like to know: what does this group of experts consist of? Can't we get a little closer to that? Because I still find it hard to understand. Who should be in the expert group?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102534	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102535	I don't think I'm gonna stand here sneaking up on who's gonna be in the expert group. But one can say that we can agree so far that we are interested in finding solutions in this area. We have some knowledge in this area, and that is why we do not think it is necessary to set up a commission in which, at least historically, it has been seen that commissions also have some of those that the author's own party has set up to spend a long time and cost a lot of money. Instead, we now need to have a rapid working group which will come up with some proposals that we can use.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102604	Then it's Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102606	Thank you to the rapporteur. As I have just said, we would, of course, like to support the setting up of a group of experts, and we can also support a Commission, but can the rapporteur not make us wise about what kind of knowledge we lack? What kind of knowledge do we need a group of experts to come up with? Can the rapporteur make us wise? For us to see in the Free Greens, we have so much knowledge that it is just about getting started. I just mentioned some of the things. But what kind of knowledge are we missing? What is the expert group going to investigate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102640	I think that if there is support for a group of experts from the parties that are here, then they have to sit down and find out what the purpose of that group of experts is. There I hear that the Greens have some suggestions as to what they think is important. We haven't found the solutions yet. Sir. Sikandar Siddique says himself that he knows what some of the challenges are, but we need to find solutions. That is, of course, what we need a rapid-working group of experts to come up with some proposals for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102710	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102711	Free Greens are of the opinion that right now we have so much knowledge that you can always investigate it more and research more about it that it's just about getting started. That is why we have made proposals in this Chamber on several occasions, but these proposals have neither the Left nor the Social Democrats supported. So I would just like to hear: a group of experts is fine, but could the rapporteur envisage supporting or putting forward a concrete proposal on the development of skills for teachers and educators on gender and cultural awareness? Will the rapporteur support a proposal that strengthens the guidance of children and young people in their educational choices, etc. etc.? Is it something that the Social Democrats will support if the Free Greens propose it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102754	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102755	I will look forward very much to taking the discussion with Mr. Sikandar Siddique, when we have decided to set up a group of experts, and then find out what these are some things that need to be included. Hopefully, then, we will get some wise people to do what we can learn more about what needs to be done before we have an educational system that is also more closely linked in terms of gender.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102811	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102813	I should like to hear: if we are now tabling an amendment, so that we change this to be a group of experts instead of a Commission, and so that it will include education in a broad sense, structural challenges, well-being and higher education... all the things that the rapporteur says the Socialists would like to have... would one vote in favour of the proposal and the amendment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102832	After all, we have put forward another proposal for a group of experts, and something which is perhaps very central and which has not been much advanced yet, is that there is also a question of funding, that is, how to finance all this, and we will also have a discussion on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102849	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102849-2	Well, then we can table an amendment where we also point to funding for this if it is to be. But it is of course a question of whether the government, on pure principle, will not support anything. You will not support it because it is called a Commission; you think it is the wrong thing. Okay, then we'll change it into a group of experts. This is what the rapporteur said should be done and what the Minister said should be done. And then I list the points which the rapporteur himself has said should be included and say: well, then we will table an amendment so that it will contain exactly what the Social Democrats want. Nevertheless, the rapporteur says that, although it will contain exactly what we want, we do not want to be in it anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102927	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512102928	No, I'm not saying that. I am just saying that it is quite essential that this proposal should also include funding. And then we have said politically that we do not think that a Commission is the right instrument, because it takes a long time and it costs a lot of money, and we do not think that what it has to do, namely to provide some knowledge, is what is the task. Instead of the need for a rapid-working group of experts to do so, we think that at the same time we also need funding. But I do think that if Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen or others would like to table amendments, they should be very welcome to do so. I don't want to get involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103000	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103001	But we accept the government's funding of its committee of experts. Will the government vote in favour if we say that we take the same funding as the government? I assume the government has financed its committee of experts since Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg can stand and say it. So we take the same funding and then we make the amendments. Will the government vote for this proposal? Or is what I was talking about before, just a confession case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103035	We are putting forward our proposal for a group of experts, and I think the questioner is welcome to make his own proposals as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103044	Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103045	Well, you just make this proposal because you have to have something to counter the opposition's proposals because you will not vote for the opposition's proposals. That's what I'm saying. There's such a sad thing about this culture called "not invented here." You don't want to vote for what the others are doing. I can hear you, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, that he has no idea what the contents of it should be. After all, this will be discussed with the parties. Yeah, we kind of do. I assume that is the purpose of the resolution, namely to discuss it with the parties. Then you might as well just acknowledge that there have been good proposals from the opposition and then you take it. Then you would have saved your strength over at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103121	I started my speech by acknowledging and saying that I thought it was a good proposal, understood in that way that this is an important problem, which I think it is very good that we should discuss. That Jens Rohde then disagrees and thinks that a commission is the right tool to use and that we should not interfere with it, Mr. Jens Roh good. But we have a different conviction because we think there is some basis for knowledge, and we think it is better to use a speedy working group instead of dragging it off with a commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103151	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Thanks for cleaning. Then it is Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103221	Thank you. I'm a little strained that I have a knowledge out of real life. I remember that when I trained myself as a therapist, one of the first things I learned on the therapist course was that if you want to understand people and work with people and their feelings, first of all you have to understand how governed we are in fact by our biology, by our biological processes. Although the human body was created thousands of years ago, it's crazy how much we're still carrying around, how much is still sitting in us from then on. It is possible that we live in a Western world where everything around us looks quite different than when the human body was created many thousands of years ago. But it's crazy how much we humans are governed by our biological blessings or limitations both physically and mentally. The male body is both stronger and faster than the female body. If you take the world champion for 100 m races for men and put him against the world champion for 100 m races for women, it is the man who wins. If you take the world champion wrestling for women and put her up against the world champion wrestling for men, it's the man who wins. And if we acknowledge the fact that the male body is both stronger and faster than the female body, then of course it is also better equipped to be earth and concrete work than the female body is. That's just the way it is. So, the men were to hunt and support their families, and they were to build a home; the women were to care for the children, they were to cook, and they were to gather. Then I just find it extremely interesting that when you read the proposal here, you can actually see a direct thread between the gender roles that man was created with and everything that is mentioned in the resolution here. Yes, women are over-represented in everything about caring, about children, about cooking; and men are over-represented in what is about building, fixing and also working with IT. You can also transfer that to being a hunter, because as a hunter you have to have a good mathematical, logical sense. You have to see how the sun stands, how the wind conditions are; and you have to know about the bear, how good its vision is, how fast it and all that. So you can transfer that to some IT today. Everything I say may sound really stereotyped, but if we are to understand why our society looks the way it does, then we have to recognise it here, that is biology, no matter what we think of it, because otherwise we can't get anywhere. For example: There is something very interesting in the proposal here that shows something about biology. This is because boys can lag behind in the education system because they have difficulty sitting still from the small classes. Yes, of course they find it difficult to sit still, because they have to act, they have to do something, that is what they have created for. And what a pity it is that our education system does not recognise biology, does not recognise that boys and girls are different. So instead of boys having to sit in a dry room and terpe the 7 table, let them go out to the schoolyard and jump the 7 table instead of that, boys learn. It is a pity that our education system was not designed for boys' learning methods. I do not believe that we will have a better society by having equal numbers of men and women in carpenter training or in nursing education. I actually think it's great that we women and men are different and that we can do something different, because then we can inspire each other. One thing that we in the Danish People's Party have a really, really hard time with is education snobbery. It is when the proposal directly states that it is a waste of talent when boys, especially immigrants, do not get well through the education system. May I be free. Surely it is not a waste of talent that Muhammed becomes a really happy and talented earth and concrete worker and is passionate about his job. Surely it is not a waste of talent that he gets a job where he has an equally important function in society as if he had been an engineer. Because what we have to do is acknowledge that no matter what we do, we have a function in society. Never will we in the Danish People's Party buy the premise that it is better to have a job with a long education behind it than a job with a short or no education. What is best, then, is that we have people who can fulfil all functions in society, so that we are a sustainable society that does not need to import labour from outside. And more importantly, what is most important is that people thrive and feel good about what they do. It is a pity it has been completely overlooked in this debate so far. Isn't it important that we're okay and that we're happy about what we're doing? I would rather that Ida is a really good cashier who loves her job and customers than that she is a deeply unhappy IT employee who has felt pressured into an education because from here we have adopted a training commission. So in the Danish People's Party we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103743	There are brief comments. First it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103746	Thank you. Oh, I don't even know where to start. The rapporteur talks about seeing children as they are, and I fully agree with that. Children learn in different ways, no matter what sex they have. Some girls learn best by jumping the seven table, and some boys learn best by sitting on their butts, and then it is true that we have a problem with some boys in primary school who do not follow. I shall now come up with a question, and I would like to hear from the rapporteur, if the rapporteur does not think it is a problem to be put in a box. If you don't want to be a cashier, but want to be an IT employee, but experience massive sexual harassment, as we can see, there is on the IT Unit as KVINFO and PROSA have proven there is on the IT Unit, will the rapporteur's party not at all be involved in doing anything about it, or should we just say to the woman who wants to be an IT employee: it's not for you; you have to take a sosu training?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103839	May I just say that it is a short remark and that is why we do not necessarily have to ask questions. That is the way we are debating this House, so there is no demand for it. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103850	Surely we must recognise that people take the education they are passionate about and the education they want. Whether a man becomes a nurse or a teacher or a woman becomes an IT employee or mechanic, those people should not be harassed. We are not opposed to that. We just don't have to legislate about that. We assume that people treat each other properly, and if they don't, we'll help take it up in here. But people need to be well, and they need to do what they like. We should not try to force them into education just because we think there should be a 50/50 gender distribution of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103928	Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512103929	No, no, we shouldn't finally force people to take an education they don't want to. I fully agree with that. But we can see that if men, for example... are heavily under-represented in an education, they drop out to a large extent, especially in welfare education. Isn't that a challenge? That means they don't feel at home. They say I can't see myself on this education. And then we'll never get the talented male educator who could have come. It is not, of course, about us deciding that he should be. It is about us giving opportunities for him to be. Will the rapporteur's party not be at all involved in looking at political solutions to how we can ensure this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104006	If you drop out of an education, it's typical because it's not an idea you're passionate about. It's rare to jump out of something you really, really love. So that's where I think we're a little down to the retail level.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104020	Then it's Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104022	Thank you very much and thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. No, it's not a problem that Muhammed or Mads are concrete workers, not at all. But it's a problem for me if Muhammed or Mads get out of primary school and can barely read and count and don't move on from there. This is a problem for us in the Left, and that is what we mean by losing some talents. Talents must be within everything. We do not believe that one is only a talent if one takes a certain level of education. I don't have an academic background myself. But does it not impress the rapporteur that one in ten boys does not receive more education than primary school? Actually, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104111	Yes, and where we shall then take action, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, is in primary school. This is the very thing about the fact that the primary school has simply been too bad to accommodate boys' children. Folkeskole has been too bad to recognise that boys have more gunpowder, and that's how they have to learn in a different way. They have to learn by trying things out, and that is where we have to put in; so that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104137	Fatma Øktem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104137-2	In the Left we are not in favour of quotas, equality or fifty-fifty, that things should be 50-50, at all. We don't. We are in favour of everyone reaching as far as their abilities and dreams extend. But in order for our abilities to be sufficient, we must not lose them from the start. This proposal builds all the way from the daycare centre to the labour market. When 30%. women apply to the typical male-dominated courses, but there are up to 75%. Does the rapporteur not think that there is something to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104217	Yes, and I would very much like to repeat that I think we should look at it in primary school. I think we should look at it in relation to the learning methods, in terms of doing it differently, so that the boys do not get out of primary school and simply have not followed enough and do not have the prerequisites for a good education. I think that's insanely important we're looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104239	Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104242	Thank you. Although for the time being it was the rapporteur's speech with which I disagreed most, somehow I found it very refreshing, getting away from discussing the process to actually discussing substance. I would just point out at the end of the rapporteur's speech, namely that the most important thing is not just that people are thriving and comfortable with what they are doing? And yes, it is. That is actually a little the essence of it, whether it is a gender committee or an expert group, that young people have their free choice and are not governed by norms and cultures. Does the rapporteur not agree at all that this is, in fact, about the fact that you are thriving and enjoying what you are doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104331	No, I do not agree with that, because, as I see it, there is a problem that there is this gender inequality, and it says directly in the proposal that there is gender inequality in IT and nursing education, and I do not think that is a problem because people should do what they are passionate about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104353	Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104355	And what they are passionate about must be rooted in the free choice of children and young people themselves, but today it is the case that it is very norm-controlled, very culturally-controlled, which education choices are made. The rapporteur is right, of course, that it also dates from primary school and perhaps even earlier from the gender stereotypes presented to us. And that is why, at least, I think it is really important for our society, for the labour market, for us to have a better distribution of gender, and that it is the way forward to have a look at the gender vexed choice of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104433	Well, I acknowledge that, I just don't agree. I do not agree that it is extremely important that we simply have to focus on how we get more female carpenters or more male nurses. I do not agree with that at all. What is most important to me is that people thrive and are happy with what they do and are well-educated in their education and well-being in their work and that they represent an important function in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104457	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. After a bit of cleaning, we're sorry, we still have to get away from it... it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104518	Thank you. And thank you for the floor. I am very pleased that we are discussing gender in the education system today, so thank you in particular to the Left for making this proposal. It is a matter of my heart for me that everyone has equal access to education, and this is the case all around the country as well when we talk about education across the country and the gender distribution of education, if anyone feels excluded. Gender must never stand in the way of what education you choose and whether you get an education. I fully agree with the authors of the proposal that there is a major problem with gender imbalance in Danish education, because it is simply no use that we have welfare programmes such as the nursing study, which has such an extreme gender distribution that the number of male students counts only 7%, or that women in vocational education have much more difficulty in finding an apprenticeship than their male fellow students and thus very difficult to complete their education. That is clearly a problem. It seems to me that this problem is about equality, but it is also about well-being in education, when we can see that female IT students experience sexual harassment in their education, and when we can see that male educators encounter prejudices that they must not be alone in a room with a child, because it could be that they were paedophiles. Then I understand that you don't want to go on that education. Unfortunately, analyses show that this is exactly what is happening in the Danish education system, and we must take this seriously, because gender imbalance is reflected in the well-being of students, and it is therefore especially the male students who tend to fall away when they are outnumbered because they do not thrive. The gender imbalance also has a very high impact on women's career prospects. There's five times more chance of getting a PhD at a geoscientific education if you're a man than if you're a woman. And the problem starts early, because we can see that student counsellors in primary school are looking at the student who comes through the door, and the first thing they notice is the person's gender, and then they counsel on it. So, yes, we have a big problem with gender imbalance, and I agree with the Left that this is screaming to heaven at political action. But as I see it, we already have a lot of knowledge in this area. We know which education is badly affected, and we have great studies and analyses in our backs, which clarify both the problems and the causes. That is why I do not see the need for a commission. I believe that this will be a very long and, above all, expensive affair and it will be unnecessary. Instead, I would much rather we set up this group of experts, we have already talked a great deal about a group that, unlike a Commission, can effectively make some concrete recommendations so that we can quickly ensure a better gender balance and where we get the parties involved, but where they do not need to spend a long time on large-scale analyses, but instead can make very concrete recommendations on how to achieve a better gender balance and thus better well-being in the education system. It is therefore a cheaper and better solution. Then it is also important for me to stress once again that the expert group should not only look at problems with a view to labour shortages, because it is also a problem of equality and well-being, just as it is a labour market problem. And then, when we look at equality, we have a general discussion with young people, especially boys who come out of our primary school and have big problems reading, writing and calculating 20%. never get a youth education. I think we can address this in relation to the problem of equality, but I also believe that it is much greater than that, and that is also why we in the SF look at it over a broad spectrum when we talk about education policy. However, I look forward to the upcoming discussions, and I am very pleased to see this motion for a resolution from the Left, although we cannot support it as it stands here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104916	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512104919	Thank you to the rapporteur. I cannot criticise the SF and I certainly cannot criticise the rapporteur for wanting to jam action when it comes to gender equality. I can in no way criticise them for this, because the SF is fighting this battle for gender equality. And that's why I just have a clear question. Because I was so happy when the rapporteur said that we know what the challenges are and we know how to solve them. It's just about getting started. I just hope that the work of this group of experts does not take a long time and may not take as long as it takes in a commission, but it is also something that takes a really, very long time, and it must also be set up first. Because we know what it takes. Can the rapporteur just clarify that, given that this does not mean that we should jam the work on equal opportunities? So I guess there are still proposals from the SF, and I guess the SF will continue to support the proposals from the Free Greens, as you have done in the past, so that we can implement the solutions that lie ahead. I hope that group of experts does not have anything to do with the fact that we will have to wait one year or two years or something. Can the rapporteur just clarify this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105021-2	On the contrary, a commission typically takes many years, and we are not interested in that, because we think we have plenty of such things in the area of equality, where we are waiting and waiting to get answers to some things. But when I still think that a group of experts is a good idea, it is because I like it when we involve the people who sit out there and know what we work with and who can make some very concrete suggestions about what we can do. And if we already have some bids in advance, as the questioner has already mentioned in previous questions, then it is just putting in there. That is also why we propose that it should be a compulsory subject in teacher training to have gender and diversity and sex education in the same way as it is in educational education. But that's why I still think it's a good idea for us to get some experts to look at how we can do even more in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105107	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105108	If the Minister is going to invite the Free Greens to these negotiations, I look forward to us raising the level of ambition together with the support parties and ensuring that we get some good solutions that we can implement as soon as possible. After all, the President has said that I do not need to ask a question, but can only comment, so that was just a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105132	I am glad that the Free Greens also see that action is needed now, and that is also why I think it is unnecessary to spend a great deal of money and a great deal of time on a commission when we would rather have action faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105146	Fatma Øktem, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105147	Thank you very much. Now SF's aren't usually the party that doesn't want any more knowledge. So I'm a little surprised that you think you have enough knowledge. I have to read something out, and it is quite true that the former Minister of Education of the Left launched a study on education and day-offerings under the previous government, and one of the most important conclusions reached was that there is a lack of knowledge. There is not a sufficient basis of knowledge • not enough solid knowledge: • There is a lack of a systematic collection and sharing of this knowledge, i.e. the knowledge we have. Actually, that's the whole thing. So it has to be said that the study that has recently been carried out says something quite different. But SF has a knowledge and knows exactly what is going to happen. The government has a knowledge. Why have we waited? This is, after all, one of the biggest problems we have in the area of equality; it is the gender-based labour market. Why have you waited two years if you have that knowledge?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105252	Yeah, I'm sorry we haven't gotten started before. I believe that those who are usually in this Chamber when we are discussing equal opportunities are in no doubt that I would like things to go a little faster than they are. But after all, we have agreed on this and it will go significantly faster than a commission. And you can get more knowledge. I just think that we have a little tendency to investigate and investigate in the area of equality. And now we see that there are actually some studies and that there are some things that we can do. For example: In the study to which the rapporteur refers, there are concrete indications of what we can do. And now we want some experts who are out there in reality to give us some concrete suggestions as to what they need from us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105335	Fatma Øktem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105336	Exactly the study I am pointing to concludes that there is no knowledge. And then the rapporteur refers to the study which concludes that there is no knowledge; that is the knowledge we have. Very interesting! We are very interested in addressing the root of the nettle, and we believe that the gender-separated education system and the gender-divided labour market that recruits from there are one of the biggest problems. And we believe that if we can help solve it, we can solve a lot of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105414	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105415	Yes, and that is one of the great challenges. And that's why I'm not gonna settle for a commission that's expensive and takes a lot of years. And if the rapporteur doesn't care what we call it, then it's fine, but I don't, because there's a very big difference between commissions and expert groups. For example: a rapid-working group of experts can be completed within one year; commissions typically take much longer. At least that's the message I've been given. And it also costs a lot more money to make commissions. However, if the rapporteur would like to call a rapid-working group of experts a Commission, then I am absolutely fine with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105448	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105450	Does SF believe that counsellors should attach any importance to gender when providing guidance?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105500	No, we certainly believe that counsellors should look at the whole person coming through the door. But we see studies which show that this is exactly what the counsellors do, that is to say if a young woman comes in, who may not be fit to go to high school but wants vocational training, then the counsellors immediately think hairdresser or sosu, and if it is a young man, you think straight away carpenter or electrician. And it's a little crooked if it's not what the young person wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105529	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105530	But I don't know if there's any evidence that they do. If they do, and if they don't counsel for interest, they're gonna have to be fired, 'cause they're probably not doing their job. That is why I ask again: does the SF rapporteur think that gender should be given any value in the guidance given?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105550	Well, no, but when we see a structural problem in our society, I don't think we should go out and fire specific guidance counselors. I mean, this is a structural problem in our society, and we have to solve that, and we can do that, among other things. I am very much looking forward to this being done by getting some proposals from a group of experts. But no, gender should have no meaning whatsoever when you get student guidance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105612	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512105631	Thank you very much, President. I would like to start by thanking the Left and Mrs Fatma Øktem in particular for presenting this motion for a resolution and also, in general terms, for their excellent cooperation in this important area, where we, the Radical Left and the Left, are very much on the same wavelength. This is an agenda on which we in the Radical Left have been concerned for a long time. Yes, in fact, the idea of a gender committee and with exactly the words that the Radical Left brought to the financial law negotiations was the last thing that was negotiated. So it's just to stress that this is a really important agenda for the Radical Left. It is because children and young people must never be restricted in their choice on the basis of their sex. They must never experience a restriction in order to live the life that is meaningful to them. I stand here as equal opportunities rapporteur. We are a good mix of rapporteurs in both the field of education and equality. But I would like to say that the whole idea that we in Denmark are an equal society and that everything is good, that is a myth, and that must be dealt with. There must be, among other things. in relation to maternity, in relation to sexual harassment, in relation to more labour market pay transparency, but that also has to be done because one of the places where we are particularly lagging behind is in the labour market, the gender-based labour market. If you're diving into where this, yes, one of the world's most gender-separated labour markets comes from, then it's these gender-difficult educational choices. If you look at what education choices look like, it is something about men moving in the direction of nailing and women moving in the direction of having to look after children. I had to understand from the colleague from the Danish People's Party that everything is fine, but for me it is not good enough if it is something that is governed by cultures and standards. So it's this sex-fought educational choice that we need to get hold of. It is not about young people no longer being free to choose exactly the education they want. For it is precisely a question of freeing them from stunted cultures and standards, free to choose exactly what they want, and striving for their dreams, no matter what a standard or a culture may be. So, with all these positive words on the motion for a resolution, I would also like to thank the Minister for his expansive hand in relation to a group of experts. For me and the Radical Left, this is about taking action in this area. There I find that whether you call it one thing or the other, action will actually be taken by setting up a group of experts to look at this. I would also like to take a little bit of credit for the Minister's hand in relation to this group of experts, because this is something we in the Radical Left have asked for, precisely because we do not just think this is a motion for a resolution that needs to be debated, and we are done with it. In fact, action is needed, and we can do so with this group of experts, which we, on the radical side, believe must also be widely composed of experts who can make very concrete recommendations on what we can do from in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110011	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110014	So what Mrs Samira Nawa is saying is thankful to the Left is that the Left helped to set the government in motion, so that right here at the last minute, the day before this proposal was to be dealt with, it could come up with something which I know the Radical Left has been working for, but which has not really been able to get through. Is that what Mrs Samira Nawa thanks for? For then we might as well support the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110046	What I thank you for is that an idea that we have had in previous financial law negotiations is now being presented as a resolution, so we have a debate. And then I just want to say that I'm very solution-oriented. I am very pragmatic, so of course I go to where we can also get some real action. I can see that you can do that with a group of experts who can make very specific recommendations, something that I myself have been pushing for for a very long time. Of course that's the way of the solution, I'm going.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110122	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110123	Yes, and Mrs. Samira Nawa must have that: she always does. I have never seen anything other than Mrs Samira Nawa going the way of the solution and having pragmatism in terms of getting things through. I can understand that. However, does Mrs Samira Nawa not see that it is a little bit comical that one does not vote in favour of the Left's proposal when one has had the proposal in one's own draft budget? And then the government comes in just like that because it doesn't have to look too stupid. In other words, you might as well if we made these amendments, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen came along, voted in favour, and then we could negotiate the content afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110201	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110202	I think that is quite simply going to be so christian. That is also why I am actually trying to be quite honest here and say that there was a proposal from the Radical Left, and there is a resolution from the Left, but if it is to become something, we also have to be in a place where there is a majority. That is what the Radical Left has been seeking. That is also why I say in all honesty that it is the Radical Left which has also put a little pressure on the Minister's hand in relation to a group of experts. But I just want the end of the day to be happy that we are getting action in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110240	Fatma Øktem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110241	Thank you very much. Yeah, what we're seeing today is christiansborgsk that you come at night before we have to deal with this. We could have spent this time sitting here talking about whether it should be called a group of experts or whether it should be called a commission and how quickly it should go. We would have liked to have been involved in that. This motion for a resolution has been under way for two months. The night before it is to be dealt with, the Minister informs us that there is a group of experts on the way. I'm gonna embrace that, and I'm glad. I think this is a strange way to do it, but I am glad that that has been said, I would like to ask Mrs Samira Nawa and I sign for the good cooperation, who is to sit on that expert council. Because I think the Radicals have said in the past that they would like to have such a comprehensive view. You want all actors to sit at this table and talk about it from day care to labour market, professions, etc. Who's gonna sit on this expert council? Can we get the veil lifted a little bit? Because I couldn't do that before.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110347	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110349	I would say that what I am taking out of Mrs Fatma Øktem's comment here is, in fact, a fundamental enthusiasm that something is happening and that something is being moved in this area. That is why I hope that we can end this with a report together with the Left, because it must ultimately be about something happening and that this is being moved. The specific group of experts I and the Radical Left would like to see, because there is no firm agreement on this. But at least we think it is essential that it should be a broad group of experts. That is also why I start in my rapporteur's speech by saying that where the problem is visible there is a gender divide in the labour market. That means that it is also someone who needs to be included. Similarly, it has also been pointed out that it stems from the sex-fought choice of education, but also earlier from the structures and norms of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110449	Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110450	Thank you very much. That's right. I am excited every time something happens in the right direction, and so is it. The rapporteur must then understand that I am perhaps a little surprised. But the rapporteur is a co-writer of the article that came last night at 1 p.m. 2.00, and that is what I am thinking: what has the rapporteur agreed to in addition to the group of experts? Because here it is very specified who should sit there, what to do and what to go for. Can we not find out a little more about what they should be looking at, among other things.: Are the boys in? I think there's a lot of focus on women only.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110526	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110527	The boys are definitely in it. After all, with the way in which education choices are made, there will be some education where there is an over-representation of women and other education in which there is an over-representation of men. That's why this is cross-cutting and not thought alone as something that concerns women. However, as the Minister and previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, the expert group goes further and also looks at education and where there is no shortage of labour. I think it's quite important that we get a look at all the parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110606	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110624	Thank you. I can tell you that I am not the rapporteur in this area, because that is Mrs Pernille Skipper, but she could not be here today, so I promised to put forward the views. As I understand it, the proposers want to set up a commission to investigate the matter and make recommendations, etc. etc. to how to correct the imbalance in the gender balance in the education system. In the Enhedslisten, we fully agree that gender-based choice of education is a problem because it restricts children and young people in their opportunities for development and life, and especially because it leads to gender-based labour market, where, in economic terms, it pays much better to be a man than a woman. It's not okay. We believe, however, that the proposal here misses the goal if there is to be a long-term working commission, because neither the gender-influenced educational choice nor the gender-separated labour market are new or unexplored phenomena. On the contrary, there are numerous reports and studies that document and make recommendations on how gender can play a smaller role in children and young people's opportunities and choice of education, including, among other things, gender. the report referred to, which one of the authors himself helped to set up as Minister for Children and Education. Then it's a little bit nice for me, who is a carpenter of women, to present these views. The Enhedslisten does not think there is any need for further studies, because the area is very well-lit. What is needed is action, and I have heard a great many of the rapporteurs say so, so I suppose that is what is going to happen. That is why we have also supported the Education and Research Minister's proposal for a group of experts to focus on concrete policy recommendations based on the knowledge that already exists in this area. I can only recommend that that group of experts include practitioners. After all, it is important for the people who will be in a so-called group of experts to know what this is all about, possibly on their own, and I can say that the experience I have gained from a wide range of working lives is that the best working environment and the best collective interaction will be achieved in jobs which are genderly equally distributed. That's why it's important to me that, whatever you call it, there's gonna be some practitioners on this assignment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110904	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Fatma Øktem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110906	Now I know that the rapporteur is not normally the rapporteur in this area, so I will not go too deep into it. I just want to ask one small question, and that is: what if it becomes a lightning commission? Will the Enhedslist be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110922	I must be honest and say that I do not give a damn what you call it, as long as an action comes out of it. And I look to the interesting amendments which have also been aired here, that is to say that this will be done in the committee work, which I am counting on, and then we will see how it develops subsequently excitingly!
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110939	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And so we thank Mrs Jette Gottlieb and go further in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512110956	Thank you, sir. President. And I will say on behalf of Birgitte Bergman, who is usually the rapporteur in this area, that I am the one who takes the point for her. Conservatives, of course, very much agree that this is an important issue. Among other things, we think it is important to look at how we can get more young women into STEM education. I would say, however, that we think that exactly a commission might be a rather heavy road to attacking this. That's just the part we're not backing up for. But we think that the intention of the proposal here is very good. We also remind you that, of course, there are already a number of analyses on the table out there, among others. from Danish Industry, which has just launched their diversity initiative. As I said, we wholeheartedly support the intention of this proposal from the Left. Now I could also understand that there have already been a number of proposals, at least amendments, so we think it is obvious to put a report on this. And then I would like to say that I fully share the vexation of the Left that it has suddenly been blocked instead of cooperating on this. And that's something that I can understand actually happened just last night. This may not be the most constructive approach to this. But thank you to the Left for a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111111	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111124	So here we are again: another attempt by the Folketing to erase this natural difference between men and women. And I think it is very significant for today's debate that the interviewed directly says the socialists: No, gender should not play any role in providing guidance in relation to education and occupation. And that is the biggest concession one can make, because it shows that for the socialists and the new feminists this is not about giving equal opportunities and looking at the individual and helping them further. No, then it's about the basic idea you have about gender: that gender alone is social-constructive... that's the approach you have to it... with an idea that it's the environment and culture that forms gender, with a complete rejection of all the empire that lies on the biological part of it. And then, with this social-constructive approach, you try to put it down on an educational system. We are inventing problems which cannot be solved with the solutions that we want to use, because we do not recognise that there is a biological difference between men and women, which, of course, has an impact on the professions that they want to work with and what they fill their lives with. Before this Parliament comes to the recognition that it is not a either or, but that biology plays a fundamental role, just as the environment and culture are also important, we will keep coming forward with these proposals, which in their essence require quotas. It is not said: we do not want to use quotas, we do not want to force people to do anything. But if you think that there should be equal numbers of men and equal numbers of women who have to work in occupations that they would not naturally apply to, then there is only compulsion left. Then there is only that one should try to do it by recording, compared to how many one should move into something else • get them over there. And in a country like Denmark, which may be characterized by the fact that we have the greatest possible similarities in input, the Folketing here does not recognise that there are different outputs on the other side. But that is the result of creating good equal opportunities for people: they choose differently, also based on their gender. That's why we don't see any reason to dive further into this. We hope that the Folketing will wake up and begin to recognise that there is a difference between men and women and that they choose differently according to their sex.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111445	There are brief comments. First it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111447	Thank you. Does New Citizens think that they should guide young people in what education they should take from their gender?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111458-2	I think that should have a role to play. Because if you do not, you neglect all the empire that has clearly shown over so many years that there is a difference in what men and women are interested in. It must never stand alone. But what SF wants is to neglect it. One would say that it has no meaning and that it should not be part of it, and it is a very, very dangerous approach to have. So yes, of course gender must be important, and of course guidance counsellors must be aware that there is a difference between men and women and what they have a natural interest in. Anything else would be a failure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111534	Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111535	Okay, so when the student counselor sees a young person, and the first thing the student counselor thinks is that he's of this sex, so he should have this education, that's the way New Citizens think we should guide our young people? So if a young woman, who wants to be a carpenter or an electrician, comes to a student counsellor, she has to fight further to convince the student counsellor that this is something for her, because that is not at all what the student counsellor proposes to her; she proposes a hairdresser or a sosu assistant. Is that how New Citizens think you should guide our young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111605	No, if there was a student counselor who did that, I think the student counselor should be fired. That is precisely why I say that if a student counsellor only looks at gender, that is, if it is first and foremost what they are looking at, then I think they should be fired from their work, because then they do not do the job they have to do. But if they neglect and if they do not recognise that, because of the fundamental biology of men and women, there are things that they care about and that there is a biological difference between men and women, then I do not think they are doing their job either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111632	Fatma Øktem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111633	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur keeps saying quotas. There's nothing in this that lays down quotas. I would like to ask Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, who is himself a teacher and accustomed to working with pupils, about it, when you see that, in an educational system that trains for the largest welfare educations we have, there is just a little change in communication, then 25%. More men applying to teacher, educator and nurse training cannot have a significance. We fully recognise that there are differences between genders and that genders are different, but when it is that such a tiny difference can also be seen in the applications, the admissions that are, would the rapporteur not agree with me that our communication to those we would like to recruit has a significance?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111736	Of course, words and communication have meaning. But when I speak quotas, you might as well call it coercion. Because if you have the illusion that you want to create equality in output, if you want there to be roughly the same number of men and women who have to work somewhere when you think there should be 40%. women on boards or something else, you can't do it without leaving the equality in input. Then you have to control the input into it, because otherwise you can't get what you want in output, and until you realize it, you don't get any further. So you have to recognise that if you give men and women equal opportunities to look for jobs and work with them, they will choose differently. That is why I see it as a huge force and a huge advantage that we have a labour market in which men and women choose differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111834	Fatma Øktem? No. Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no more brief comments. Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512111851	Thank you. Mrs. Samira Nawa said there was a lot of Christiansborg in this. Yeah, that's right, and that's what's kind of sad. Because basically, this proposal, as I read it, contains something that we should all be able to agree on. Because I do not see it as a proposal to create a social-constructive construction, or that we are going to say the hen, and what do I know in the education system, but I see it as an attempt to pick up those who drop out of the education system due to lack of well-being or because they cannot see themselves in it, and that is also a help for a great many boys and young men. So that is how I read the proposal, but that is how we can read it in such a different way, and we have done so when we have just to see that it is at 1 p.m. Two nights, Christiansborg and block politics go into it. When I heard the Minister's speech, I barely had a word for the feeling that arose in me. Because I thought that all right, everything she says, should simply justify saying yes to the proposal. And then when we ask if the name can be changed from commission to circuit or working group or group of experts, or what do I know, then it's still gone wrong, and you still don't want to go, no, you come with your own. Then there will be a discussion about funding, that is, whether you have the funding. No, but we can see that the government does. We have to assume that, and I can ask the Minister if she has funding for what she has done at 1 p.m. Two tonight, and then we acknowledge it. And then we should be able to sit together, and it is just that I think it would be great if we could do away with the culture of this Parliament, namely that we as a government do not vote in favour of a motion for a resolution from the opposition, and that is not just something that is wrong here. I remember that, as political rapporteur for the Left, I had many discussions with the then Prime Minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, and it was the same. I say: if the opposition is now making a good proposal, why are we not voting in favour? No, we're bringing our own. But why? I think that people would find it very sympathetic if we had the ability to do the same, and now the President is sitting next to me, and he is a former minister in many governments, but also in the Nyrup government, and I have said that before down here, but I will never forget an interview which I know Anders Fogh Rasmussen put under the record when he became Prime Minister, namely when the then Minister of the Nyrup Government, Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, said: What I regret most are all the times I have said no to good ideas and good suggestions. Yes, I think it's such a very good reminder, and when I heard the speech here, I actually came to think of Inger Christensen, the old poet, without comparison, by the way, i.e. the poem called "The Action," "Integrations" from the collection of poems "It" in 1969, because it seems so absurd, and I just want to read out a verse from that. Inside the first Parliament there is another, inside the second there is a third, inside the third and fourth etc. Parliament. In Parliament No. 3517 people are discussing power, in parliament no. 1423 people are discussing power. Man Number 8611 has always been a bit more imaginative. At the end of all the united parliaments there is a well-paid adviser. Inside the first office there is another, inside the second there is a third, inside the third one a fourth office etc. Inside office no. 3517 is a counselor who advises an administrator, in office no. 1423 there is an administrator who administers an adviser. Man Number 8611 has always been concerned about consideration. At the end of all united offices is a well-paid hidden observer. Inside the first society there is another, inside the second there is a third, inside the third a fourth society etc. Inside society no. 3517 is a man wondering about a society. In Society No. 1423 there sits a man wondering about a society. Man Number 8611 has always been brave about happiness. At the end of all united societies, the minister sits and smiles. I am very pleased to meet you, you are my very first patient. What am I gonna say with that? I would say that this discussion and rejection of the Left's proposal is absurd. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512112356	Thank you. We are therefore grateful to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512112428	Thank you, President. As a new member, it was interesting to have a historical insight into both the President's previous statements and the business of the previous governments. After all, the proposal here is essentially about equality. It is about equal access and equal opportunities, regardless of disability, regardless of gender, regardless of skin colour or belief. And that really makes me think that today the Ramadan ends, and I would therefore like, on behalf of the Free Greens and myself, to wish the President, members of the Folketing and all Muslims a happy eid: Eid Mubarak. I hope you have a blessed and amazing day with your family, your close and loved ones. As I said, the proposal is about equality. Today's debate has shown us that, for once, we are in complete agreement. Left wants a commission set up. The minister, together with the support parties, wants to set up a group of experts, and all of us who have not been invited, the KD and the Free Greens, would also like to ensure this equality. So shouldn't we really use that option? I would also like to make a request to the Minister, because the next time you do something with a group of experts or take initiatives in the field of equal opportunities, we really want to be involved in this, because we have put forward proposals on gender equality. But we can take that after the debate. I would call on all of us, in the name of equality, above all who gets credit for it, to agree on a legal solution that ensures that we reach our goal. Never before have I stood down in this Parliament hall and experienced the parties so agreeable, and then I don't think it should be the construction that separates us. If you ask Free Greens, that is, if it was 100%. We had 90 mandates, we would say that there is no need for a group of experts, and there is no need for a commission. We know what it takes, and it's just about getting started. Unfortunately, we do not have 90 mandates, and that is why I would like to call on all of us here to find out in some way how to achieve this. As I have said in several of my comments and questions today, it is, of course, difficult to be against examining an opportunity for equality; it is difficult to be against a group of experts. So the Free Greens will encourage the opposition and the government and the minister to work together to find out how we are going to achieve equality, how we are going to achieve equality, how we are going to achieve equality of opportunity and rights for all. So I look forward and I look forward to the work of the committee and I hope that we can find a common solution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512112758	There is a brief comment from Mrs Fatma Øktem, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512112759	It's just one small comment. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and thank you for that very positive attitude. I can only agree and say that far along the way we agree, and I also hope that we will find each other. Having said that, I just have a tiny question, and that is: Mr. Sikandar Siddique, we know what it takes. Can't we just very briefly know what it's going to be, so we can solve this huge problem that we've had for really, really, really many years? What's it gonna take? And good bayram for sir. Sikandar Siddique and the family! Then it's a holiday tomorrow, which fits very well together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512112839	Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512112842	So with this eid, the proposal by the Free Greens on flexible holidays will not be necessary because we are already free tomorrow. I could, of course, start by saying to the rapporteur that we could, of course, look at the report prepared by the Left during its reign in 2017. The report, which was prepared in the Ministry of Education, makes a lot of concrete recommendations on what could be done. I do not have all the recommendations with me, but some of the recommendations that I read out were, for example, those. Skill development for teachers and educators; strengthened counselling; gender awareness; all parameters are included in the guidance of educational choices; counsellors are better trained in these issues; better psychological assistance • now I have 10 seconds left • focused recruitment of under-represented identities, focus on individual work and learning methods, structural improvements. There is so much we can do, so these are just some of the proposals we want to start with. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512112947	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Fatma Øktem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113003	Thank you very much. I would like to start by thanking all the rapporteurs, all the parties involved in today's debate, for some good speeches. I think that far, far along the way, we were very much in agreement on the problem: what challenges there are and how important it is that we get everyone on board. For having a healthy society requires that we all bear in mind that we do not lose anyone, neither boys nor girls. But it is also about the individual living exactly the life he or she wants to live as far as the abilities and dreams go. So I'm really glad we all agree on that in here. But I must also add that I have to admit that when I read this morning that you want a group of experts, I thought: Oh no, this is exactly what makes you really tired of listening to us. That is what is known as christiansborgsk. It is absolutely correct. I repeat myself: two months this resolution has been under way. I haven't heard from the Minister in those two months. At 1:00 a.m. 2.00 at night, the day before we have to deal with it, then there is a speech by the Minister and the support parties that you want a group of experts. I welcome the expert group. For us, this is not about Commission work. We could have made a lightning commission, too. Nobody has said that it should be four years or ten years or that it should cost millions and billions. Nobody said anything about that. Nor is it in the motion for a resolution. You might as well have asked. You didn't choose to do that. I really think that is a shame. As I said, this is a major problem and I think I hear all the parties mentioning it. It is not because my background is Turkish, but I simply have a Turkish belief that we will be able to land it here some way or another where we can all be there. I hope so, because I think there were a lot of good intentions and there was a long way between the things we disagreed about. I don't know what the expert group is supposed to be, but I know what we thought about the commission. It was supposed to be very wide. For the study that has come from the Ministry of Education in 2017, where a Left Woman was again in charge, makes some recommendations, but then also says that it is knowledge and knowledge sharing and a collection of interdisciplinaryities that we lack, and that is what we want. We should have the business community on the ground, the educational institutions and various ministries, so that it is not just the Ministry of Education that has it. I haven't lost hope. I still believe we can do something good. That is why I also welcome the Minister's proposal and I hope that we can put it together in some way and that we can do something. Because this area is simply too important for us to make block policy on it or for us to choose to turn our backs on each other. It's too important. Every single time there is one of the young people who comes out of primary school and does not get an education, it costs DKK 100,000, and there are 30,500 young people of working age who do not get an education. That's 3 billion. kr. a year. That's a lot of money. We could use them for so much else. So it is a huge loss for the individual and, above all, it is a huge loss for our society. So I thank you for today's debate. I think it has been very, very good, and I hope that we can continue working on it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113405	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113406	Thank you to the rapporteur for the proposal. It has not been so long since we sat down here in the Parliamentary Chamber debating one of the many proposals of the Free Greens to promote equality, and I remember at one point I was so frustrated that I said to the rapporteur's colleague: you say that you are in favour of equality, but every time we come up with a proposal, you shoot it down and when do you come up with your own proposal? And then the rapporteur said to me: just wait, we come up with a proposal for a Commission. And now we're down here. But I could be tempted to ask: when the Left itself was in government, there was a report that we have been talking about and to which I have also referred, a huge report that was produced by the Left itself, and there was, of course, there I have mentioned them several times today, a lot of concrete solutions, so why is it that the Left has not used its own report, taken the recommendations and conclusions and tabled them as resolutions in the Chamber or implemented them when they were in government? The rapporteur will simply have to answer that question. Because you have ordered a report yourself, you have had some conclusions and you say that the area is important, so why on earth have not these things been put into effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113518	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113519	I also think that part of it was set in motion, and a great many good things are happening, both in schools and in educational establishments around the world. Nobody is working against it; there are no companies that say that getting a woman or a man on their board will benefit the bottom line, they opt out because they have the wrong sex. I simply do not believe that. What we want is for people to sit down on it together. In the recording for 2018-19, UC SYD has made just a tiny bit about it and it's a super good example of how they communicate out, and they've got a lot more applicants from the underrepresented sex. It is not natural law that we in Denmark have 4%. male nurses, where it is 31%. in Italy. Well, we have to look at those places and see if we can do better and then do it together. That is what we are asking for, and that is where I am very interested in hearing about misfortune up to 75%. of the underrepresented sex ends up dropping out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113629	Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113630	I do not think I really got an answer to my question about all the good recommendations and conclusions, and why the Left did not implement them at the time and why they have not tabled them as resolutions during this period. This isn't a teasing question, it's a real question. So if, when we set up a working group, a commission, a group of experts and we agree on it and they make recommendations, will the rapporteur give a guarantee that the Left will support those recommendations and ensure that they are adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113703	No, I certainly don't see it as a teasing question either. As I said, part of it has already been set in motion, but what we can see today, what I see, among other things. hears from the Danish Occupation, is that it is not enough it is not enough. We need to bring the whole thing in. It is not only the field of education that needs to be done not only by schools, and that is why we are taking this step forward. But the same study also shows that we do not have enough knowledge in this area. That's what's going on in that investigation. There are some proposals, yes, but what they conclude is that we do not have enough knowledge and I am responding to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113738	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113739	It is just a comment to the rapporteur with a receipt of the format that I think the rapporteur shows. Despite what has already been said, the rapporteur stands here in the chair and signs and welcomes the government's proposals. It is so in stark contrast to what we have seen here tonight from the government, but all the greater honour I think should be attributed to Mrs Fatma Øktem. I think it was a very worthy speech made here by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113815-2	Thank you so much. I would have liked it to be different. I would have liked to see us not having to stand in the Chamber and debate this if it is the case that something else is on the way. Then we could have sat somewhere else and talked about it. But this area is just as important and whether it should be called committee of experts, whether it should be called lightning commission, or whether we should baptize it something quite third, is subordinate to me and to the Left. The most important thing is that we get started, that we get the knowledge we need and that we do away with what helps to create the greatest inequality and imbalance in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512113855	Thank you. There are no more brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. I'm here to postpone the meeting. It will resume today at 1 p.m. 1 p.m., where there is Question Time with questions to the Ministers. The meeting is suspended.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130004	The sitting is resumed. I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, will be answered in writing. 3, S 1437, to the Minister of Justice of Ole Birk Olesen (LA), is deleted at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130022	The first question is Mr. Karsten Hønge, and there is also a fellow inquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130040	Will the Foreign Minister, on the basis of the recent report by the human rights organization Human Rights Watch, which describes the conditions in the territories occupied by Israel as 'apartheid', elaborate on what the government intends to do to put an end to these crimes against humanity and to get the peace process back on track?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130100	Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130101	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge for the question. There is no doubt that the human rights situation for the Palestinians is under pressure. We in Denmark and the European Union have not hesitated to state this again and again, not least as a member of the UN Human Rights Council. There are examples of also serious violations of human rights. For many years, Denmark has supported NGOs in Palestine and Israel working for human rights in the occupied territories. This support will continue with the strategic framework for Denmark's cooperation with Palestine for 2021-2025. However, the problem of respect for human rights cannot be so isolated only to the Israeli occupying power. Self-government in the West Bank and Hamas in Gaza also has a responsibility. The Human Rights Watch report concludes, on the basis of a comprehensive legal analysis, that Israel, through its actions against the Palestinians, has committed crimes against humanity in the form of apartheid and persecution. Crimes against humanity are defined in the Statute of the International Criminal Court and are one of the most serious crimes. I will not go into the legal analysis which Human Rights Watch bases on its conclusions, including whether or not the criteria for one crime have been met. The key point is that we agree with Human Rights Watch that there are examples of serious human rights violations in relation to the Palestinians and that we must continue to address them, as we do, for example, in the UN Human Rights Council. In close cooperation, particularly within the European Union, the Government will continue its efforts to ensure respect for international humanitarian law and international human rights vis-à-vis the Palestinians, both for states and for non-state actors.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130244	Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130246	In any case, it has to be said that the situation since I sent this question has deteriorated dramatically. What is happening between Israel and the Palestinian territories is quite wrong. However, to understand the depth of the anger, perhaps some of it should be found in this term from the Human Rights Watch, namely that millions of Palestinians live every day under enormous pressure, which we can now call apartheid, with the words of a human rights organisation. So when a population is both held in an economic grip, but is also oppressed by a system that discriminates against people in apartheid in a way that makes it clear that it is the Palestinians who are at the bottom of society, right on the edge of the labour market, then perhaps you can understand some of the things that are at the root of the dramatic development of the conflict that we have seen in recent days. If we want to resolve the conflict, we need to tackle part of the root of the evil, and that is extreme discrimination and repression of the Palestinians. There is such an obvious need for both sides to get their minds on and to get dialogue going, but the relationship of power between the two parties is just so wrong, where it is the superpower that is Israel. I would also say that Hamas has no right whatsoever to shoot rockets from the Gaza Strip. Hamas is religious fanatics without respect for the right of people to live in harmony. Hamas' hatred for Israel is greater than their love for the Palestinian people. But the loser today is the ordinary civilian Palestinians. I heard the Minister say that there were some initiatives, but I would like it to be a little clearer: is it independent initiatives from Denmark? Is it through the European Union, or is it primarily through the United Nations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130451	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130451-2	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. I fully share the frustration that exists about the situation in the Middle East. Since the question has been asked, it has only become much worse with civilians on both sides who are exposed to an outrageous situation. There are reports of dead in attacks etc. So it is very serious and I must be the first to call on all parties to deescalation and to sit together peacefully and find a solution to the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130524	Thank you. I'm afraid time's up. Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130524-2	I concluded my first question by saying that Hamas has no right to fire rockets across Israeli territory. But we must also say that Netanyahu is certainly not in his right to do what he intends to do, namely to use the seriousness of the situation to fulfill his vulgar dream of religious Jewish fanatics to annex the areas they have actually occupied for many years. They have occupied it with religious fundamentalism and a dehumanisation of the Palestinian people. What initiatives does the Minister consider appropriate now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130559	Thank you. Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130559-2	Denmark supports a negotiated two-state solution. We are doing this together with the EU countries, and we are doing this at the United Nations. We do so wherever we can, because that is the only solution, just as it is the government's policy, that Israel should cease its settlement policy. The settlements are illegal under international law and are directly opposed to EU policy and, moreover, UN Security Council Resolution 2334. As a consequence of this Israeli settlement policy, the government advises against 100 commitments and activities aimed at strengthening settlements. It's an important element of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130637	Then we'll have to get the co-questioner in, and that's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. It's 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130641	Thank you to the Secretary of State. I do not think I can count the number of times there has been consultation and questions about the situation in Palestine. It is not something that has arisen either today or yesterday. It's been going on for decades. Fortunately, the position is clear and clear, but I am also curious to hear the Foreign Minister: what do we do? I am often told that we are using the tools we have in the diplomatic toolbox, and I have great respect for the diplomacy the Foreign Minister is working with, but are there now more new tools in the toolbox that you can grasp? Unfortunately, we see more settlements, we see Palestinians being thrown out of areas where they should be able to live peacefully and properly together, namely in East Jerusalem, where escalation is taking place right now. So what are the new tools that the Minister now wants to use on the basis of the report and in the light of recent developments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130738	Here's to the minister, who also has 1 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130739	There is clearly an EU track in which we in the European Union must push for a peacefully negotiated two-state solution. There is a UN trail in which we must continue to address these issues, including human rights. We are also doing so as members of the UN Human Rights Council. That is what I referred to in my reply, where for many years Denmark has supported NGOs in both Palestine and Israel who work for human rights in the occupied territories. I also believe that if there is to be a negotiated two-state solution and also reconciliation, we must also work from the bottom up to strengthen the forces that support it here, and especially at a time when we see that escalation has become the order of the day, I think it is important that we support it from below too. Denmark has, as I have said, highlighted this in the new programme for 2021-2025. human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130827	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130828	Does the Minister think that it would be sensible to react a little more quickly and more clearly in a country such as Denmark and the European Union, when we see the settlements expanded, when we see Palestinians being thrown out in East Jerusalem, for example, because the settlers are moving in that we are reacting quickly and more clearly to Israel, because so far we have been a little cautious in our statements and have said on the one hand and on the other? Could there be greater clarity in the announcements from e.g. Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130901	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130902	On the contrary, my experience is that we are very clear: settlements are illegal and contrary to international law. We also react harshly and clearly when we see Hamas rockets hailing down Israel as we see it at the moment. We are also reacting very clearly when, in this conflict, we see an escalation affecting innocent civilians. Denmark is clear on the side that calls for de-escalation and to find negotiated peaceful solutions and, moreover, we support a civil society on both sides that works for these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130932	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then we'll have the main questioner back, and that's sir. Karsten Hønge. If he wants to, he has 1⁄2 minutes, and the minister also has 1⁄2 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512130942	I would like to thank you for the answers, but I still miss a little more such more concrete actions. In addition to a tragedy, human disasters are also taking place in Israel, and it is well to note from the outset that there is a superpower, Israel, and then there is a people who, in the words of Human Right Watch, are living under apartheid. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister can pronounce the words'solidarity' with Palestine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131015	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131016	I am in solidarity with Palestinians, Israelis, with all the innocent civilians who are being taken hostage in this terrible conflict. That is why it is my position and that of the government that we should work on all the leads we can, namely in the European Union, the United Nations and, as I said, bilaterally, to support those forces that want a peaceful two-state solution. We also support, in the current situation, the fact that this matter is being raised in the UN Security Council, because we must have stopped the escalation of violence that we are currently seeing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131047	Thank you. That was the end of the question. Sir. Karsten Hønge's gonna have to drink off. The next question in this Chamber is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and this time it is by Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund from the Enhedslisten, and the co-questioner is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131108	First, it's sir. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131110	Thank you. The question to the Foreign Minister is: what is the government's position on the temporary suspension of patents on covid-19 vaccines, according to the appeal for a waiter made by India and South Africa in October 2020, given the announcements of other countries in recent days, and how will the government actively work for successful WTO negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131133	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131134	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund in relation to this question, it's really important. Let me stress that the government is working to ensure that effective and safe covid-19 vaccines are available to everyone. There is no doubt that we are facing a major challenge worldwide with a shortage of vaccines. The government's position is therefore that we must look with an open mind at all proposals aimed at increasing global production capacity in an effective, secure and pragmatic way. This position is shared at EU level, as was confirmed last at the meeting of the Heads of State or Government in Porto this weekend. This also applies to the U.S. announcement of a temporary suspension of patents on covid-19 vaccines. We do not yet know the details of the American proposal, but a number of countries, including the European Union, have expressed scepticism as to whether a suspension of patents will help increase vaccine production. Rather, the challenges are a lack of know-how, raw materials, export restrictions and, as we all know, especially in developing countries, weak health systems. On the Danish side and on the European side, however, we are ready to continue discussions in the WTO, where the new Director-General, Dr Ngozi, has taken the initiative on the so-called third road. This will involve enhanced cooperation between vaccine producers and industry as the way forward towards more voluntary licensing agreements and increased production capacity. Such a solution could ensure that the framework and incentives for innovation, research and investment in new medicines are not undermined and thus patent rights will remain part of the solution. Therefore, the members of the WTO should put all their energies into finding common ground and supporting it, I think, good initiative that Dr Ngozi has taken here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131320	Thank you. Here you go, Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131321	Thank you. I think that we have heard it many times that all possibilities must be examined, that every stone must be turned, that speed is crucial. But it is as if there is still some reluctance on the part of the government to clarify precisely this element in relation to a temporary suspension of patents. Now we've seen it with Biden, who has declared himself in line with Enhedslisten and, by the way, SF in relation to this, and it makes sense for the Biden administration to do so on this issue, and now we need the government to bite into this as well. For what the government is saying, and what the Foreign Minister says, and what the Foreign Minister has already said in this Chamber, when we have raised it in question debates, is that it is about production capacity, but that releasing patents will not increase capacity. I just need to hear a few words: where is that message coming from? Is it the patent holders who believe that releasing patents will not help anything and that the capacity will not be there? Because when you look at the countries which, by the way, are economic growth countries, such as India, South Africa and Brazil, which have erected this waiter with a desire that if patents were released, you would be able to produce, they are obviously of the opinion that production capacity could be produced and that you would be able to produce if patents were released. So why is it that the government believes that releasing patents would not help to increase the production of medicines on a global scale? This is obviously not the assessment of the countries mentioned earlier, which has raised precisely the question of the waiter. So on what are the ministers and the government basing that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131515	Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131516	Firstly, the government supports Dr Ngozi and the WTO track here and the third way. I would just like to emphasise that the European Union has, after all, exported almost half of the vaccines produced in the European Union to countries outside the European Union. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of the United States, for example, to which reference was made. That is why, in fact, we in the European Union have also called on the United States and the U.K. to lift their de facto export ban on covid-19 vaccines and components, and if we want to find a quick solution, a suspension of vaccine patents is not the answer. On the other hand, it is a question, and that is what is being asked, of strengthening inter-industrial cooperation and promoting technology and knowledge sharing. Then there is the question of who has said that it is not patents. So, for example, after this weekend's summit, the French President said that there is no one production facility where patent protection alone is the reason why covid-19 vaccines cannot be produced. So...
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131607	Thank you. Here you go, Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131608	Now it is the case that the government itself has proposed that a market consultation should be carried out here in Denmark with a view to establishing a licensed vaccine production, which is why I am a little incomprehensible as to why it should not be possible to do so if licences are released. That would, of course, give the opportunity for those countries that are now asking for it to start producing without being dependent on obtaining a licence from the patent holder. That is why I am still a little incomprehensible as to why we are not going to investigate that track precisely when we say that all tracks must be examined. I agree that export restrictions are also part of that, but why not also release patents?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131641	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131641-2	Thank you. After all, we fully share the desire and the objective of increasing production capacity and getting more vaccines out, not least to developing countries. It's a pandemic, and we're not out of it until we're all out of it. So the discussion here is alone, which way and what means are the right ones to get there, and we must remember that in terms of having a patent right we must also have the ability to produce it, knowledge, know-how, materials, facilities, that is to say production facilities, etc. All this requires cooperation, and that is why I see the third way in the WTO as the path that can lead to maximum production.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131717	Thank you. We're gonna have to spit it out, and then it's the co-questioner, and this time too, it's Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131728	Thank you. I would really like to come back to the issue of the WTO waiter, that is, it is in it. For the Minister, as the government has said, since the first time Enhedslisten and SF called for a consultation, says that you look at it, that you are open, that you look at it, that you are open, and at the same time you say that you should now look at what is in the American proposal. However, as I read the American proposal, it is, of course, to support it in the WTO, and it is both a temporary lifting of patents, and there is also something about know-how so that production can come up. So could the Minister really not respond to what has been asked of South Africa and India, rather than being open and waiting and looking at what the United States has proposed? For the United States, it supports the Waiver that has been asked from India and South Africa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131814	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131815	Well, we are looking at what that means in concrete terms and what is the content of what the United States is proposing, and it is, of course, that I say that it is striking that export restrictions still remain, even on the part of the United States, as I understand it, with regard to ingredients and other things in relation to vaccine production. And if we are to succeed in raising production capacity, it is not enough to have a patent. It is an important part of it, but it is also to have ingredients, know-how, production facilities, cooperation to get it up. Because if it were that easy, there would probably be a lot of countries that had established it. So it is important that we work together on this, and there is the track in the WTO, the so-called third road, which I assess as the government assesses it, that is, a track that can lead to increased production, and I hope that we agree on that is the goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131902	Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131903	There's such a concept in politics called whataboutism, and that's when you stand and talk about everything but relate to what's being asked, and it's this waiter. We have had consultations, we have had questions and questions have been asked, and I think it will be interesting to hear whether the government will respond to what India and South Africa have raised and which more than 100 countries, now the United States, are supporting in the WTO, in other words this waiter on patents. Are you ready to still look at it with an open mind, or are you going to move on that agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131933	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512131934	Yes, and we have had the debate before in the Chamber, and we are prepared to look with a very open mind at all the proposals that can increase production capacity, ensuring that covid-19 vaccines come out to developing countries, not least as challenged. We support, for example: on the Danish side, the COVAX mechanism is massive and I am therefore pleased that there is a process within the WTO that can lead to a concrete result so that we can increase production capacity, and I hope that is a common goal for us. Because there is not one thing that can do it alone, but it is a jumble of cooperation that is needed to succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132006	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Nordqvist. We need to get the liquor off before the main questioner, sir. Peder Hvelplund, come to the podium and to the last question. Here you go, 1⁄2 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132018	Thank you. Well, I would hope that the support for COVAX is then materialised in a decision in principle that excess vaccines are also donated to COVAX. The government has so far rejected this, but I would like to hear the Minister what the answer is, given that we disregard everything that anyone else could do. Now come India and Brazil, who have raised a specific question about a Waiver and say: if you release the patents, then we can start producing. Then the Danish government says: No, we don't think you should be allowed to do that. I just want to know why.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132048	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132049	No, the Danish Government says that we are open to all proposals that could increase a de facto production capacity, roll-out, delivery of covid-19 vaccines, and the track that Dr Ngozi, the new Director-General of the WTO, has built, in our opinion, is the track that can lead to a result, so that we have increased production capacity. And the government has said very clearly that a dialogue with the United States and a dialogue with India and other countries are very much appreciated and that it is important to move forward. But it's important that we get together, because otherwise we won't solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132125	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more questions for him, and that was also the end of the second question in this Chamber, and Mr. Peder Hvelplund stays standing. For Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène: No 3 has been deleted, but Question No 3 has been deleted. 4 is for the Minister of Health by Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132145	Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132147	Thank you. It's good to get another shot, because we're gonna stay on the same track. The question to the Minister for Health is: what is the government's position on the temporary suspension of patents on covid-19 vaccines, according to the appeal for a Waiver made by India and South Africa in October 2020, given the announcements of other countries in recent days, and how will the government actively work for successful WTO negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132211	Here you go, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132212	Thank you for that question. It is now due to a deleted question right after the discussion with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that is, of course, in the nature of the negotiations. So I cannot explain the part of the issue of negotiations in the WTO. We have just had an opportunity to discuss this with the Foreign Minister. However, I will focus on the part that concerns health policy, and there is plenty of that in the question as well. I would like to make it clear that we are concerned to ensure that effective and safe covid-19 vaccines are available to the whole world and we are open to discussing all proposals that could increase access to vaccines. The vaccines are extremely critical and there is a shortage of them, and we must do everything we can to increase access to vaccines. This requires the present situation in virtually all parts of the world. We must note that the world is in a pandemic and that that pandemic is not over until the world is somehow corona-free, and vaccines play an absolutely crucial role. Every country in the world must have an interest in the rapid knockdown of the covid-19 so that we can put this situation behind us as quickly as possible. This applies in Denmark, but as I have said, it also applies internationally. We know that as long as we do not succeed in this, there are new variants and mutations of viruses that will enable us to find ourselves in a situation where we can become vulnerable in Denmark as well. Covid-19 must be fought across national borders. Covid-19 doesn't know about national borders. This has proved to be the case until now, and it will prove to be the case. We are prepared from the Danish side to look at all possibilities that can increase global vaccine production. However, we would also like to look pragmatically at this and at everything that can happen to increase the amount of vaccines available to the whole world. That work is going on as planned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132420	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132421	Thank you. One might say that one of the effects that has been of the corona epidemic is that in Denmark too we have had a very visible insight into how crucial vaccines are. This is usually something that we consider to be going on in third world countries where it can be of great importance, but the corona epidemic has just illustrated exactly how crucial vaccines are, both for the way we can live together, but also for our society and our economy. That is why I also hope that the Minister will agree that we must do everything possible, because when it comes to fighting a pandemic, there is no means left untested. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister would agree that, if there are possibilities, it is not patent rights that should prevent us from developing as many vaccines as possible. Does the Minister and the Government agree that this possibility should also be tested? We have seen in the past that, when we are in a very special situation, we have said: if it is not now, when is the time to suspend patents temporarily? We saw that, for example. in the case of HIV, where it was also done. Does the Minister agree that consideration of health, including global public health, should be above intellectual rights, i.e. patents? It can be said that there is also the possibility of temporarily abolishing patents under the auspices of the WTO. So does the Minister basically agree that it should be the case that the consideration of global public health is above the consideration of intellectual rights and patents and that it might even help us develop more vaccines and that more vaccines can be produced for the benefit of global public health?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132613	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132614	Consideration of global public health is alpha and omega and has a direct link with our national public health. We can see that when we have a pandemic situation in which, unfortunately, we still find ourselves. That is why everything that can be done must be done. When specific questions are asked about the WTO, patents and what is covered by the TRIPS agreement, I have to respect that, and I hope that the questioner will know that it is under the Foreign Minister's resort, and we have just had the opportunity to discuss that very issue with the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132645	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132646	It is quite true that this is a matter for the Foreign Minister, and that is also why I am asking about the very principle, namely whether it is also the government's view that if intellectual rights, i.e. patent rights, stand in the way of global public health, then we must stand on the side of global public health and ensure that we have access to as many vaccines as possible, even if it is at the expense of intellectual rights, i.e. patent rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132715	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132716	I have to stick to my answer, which is that global public health is under extreme pressure and that it is our task to strengthen global public health and thus also to strengthen our national public health, and that everything that can be done to help with it must be done and that all opportunities must be explored. I cannot now go into a colleague's resort and assess the importance and impact of various adjustments, assessments and activations of TRIPS agreements, including patents. It doesn't belong under my command.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132754	Thank you, Minister. Then we'll just say goodbye to Mr. Simpson. Peder Hvelplund for a while, and then it's the enquirer. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF, who has 1 minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132811	I think it is a pity that we still cannot get an answer from the government on whether we support the waiter requested by India and South Africa, supported by 100 countries, supported by the WHO, supported by UNAIDS, supported by a number of organisations and now also by the United States. We are still hearing from the government, of course, that it is important for everyone to be vaccinated. Yes, that is what we agree on, and that is why some will do something. Now I hear that I have to understand the answer... that it is not supported by the government. That's how I have to understand the non-answers coming. But then what? What will be done to accommodate India and South Africa, like 100 countries, WHO and also the United States, etc. You think you should be allowed to produce these vaccines? What will be done on the Danish side for this? That is, of course, the crux of the matter and the important question, and I think that we must start to get more concrete answers from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132910	Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512132911	I think that is an unfair and incorrect presentation of what I have answered. I have answered the question of health care, and we have already informed the questioners that what is now being asked is a waiter under the auspices of the WTO, the TRIPS agreement, patents, etc., falling within the remit of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. It did so in previous governments, and it does so in this government too. And we have just had an opportunity to discuss this with the Foreign Minister. It is not fair to ask another minister to interfere in that resort, so I do not do that here. What I am dealing with is ensuring the health of the Danes and helping to strengthen global and European health. Specifically, we do this in Denmark by purchasing vaccines, and we also help globally by making things that can help available from the Danish health service. As things stand, we have made available various media and personnel, and we are also in a situation where we have bought quite a lot of vaccines. I am extremely pleased today that we took the decisions we made, because we really need all the vaccines that we can get and, of course, with regard to those that are in surplus, we will discuss with other countries and organisations whether we can donate them and in this way help them. That's the store I stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133024	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133025	Yes, and we can talk long and praise the efforts that have been made in Denmark and also the efforts we are making internationally. But what is important here and I think that Mr. Peder Hvelplund asked very clearly about the issue and what I, like myself, am trying to clarify and come up with an answer is: we have public health at the top of the agenda, there are some countries that have specifically asked for a solution, and we are standing with our arms crossed. So does the Minister think that we should take patents into account before public health, or are we prepared to put public health at the top of the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133100	Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133101	That part of the question of patents and WTO negotiations, we have told the members of the Folketing that they belong to the Foreign Minister, and we have just had the discussion with the Foreign Minister about it. It doesn't belong under my command. After all, we have a resort division in the government, and we have to respect that I and everyone else have to do that. So you can ask what you want, but I have to answer what belongs to my group. That is to say, when you ask again about patents and wishes for a Waiver and other things, I have to say that these are negotiations that it is not me but someone else who is handling on behalf of Denmark. You also have the opportunity to ask what you have just done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133138	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Nordqvist. The last question is asked by Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133155	Thank you. I can well hear that the Minister will not really answer this question, but one could imagine in a very thoughtful example that the Minister for Health was not Minister for Health in Denmark, but in India or South Africa or in Brazil. I would just like to hear what the answer is to the health minister's colleagues there now, who are just coming to ask for this. The answer from the Danish Government is then that we cannot. That is why I have asked about the principle of whether the concern for global public health is above the concern for intellectual rights, in other words patent rights, if you ask the Minister for Health in Denmark, when at least that is not the opinion of the Health Ministers in India, Brazil and South Africa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133235	The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133236	The most important thing here during a global health crisis is public health in Denmark and globally. Then there is the question of the various instruments. There is the COVAX initiative, which is the WHO action, which is donations from the countries. Then there is also the issue of production and state investment and the question of the intellectual rights of private investors. How to use those tools in the best possible way for the benefit of public health is what is crucial. It is not the case that there are principles above public health. Public health is and remains the most crucial thing. It is only about which tools to use to strengthen public health globally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133314	Thank you to the Minister for Health, and thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. Sir. Peder Hvelplund's gonna have to drink off. That was the end of Question 4. Question 5 is questions to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133336	Thank you for that, President. Is the Minister in dialogue with the Swedish authorities to find a viable solution, both in the short and in the long term, as the challenges of crossing through Sweden unfortunately continue, among others. Since the staffing on the bridge is not adapted to large and larger travel days, such as large prayer days, when the cars were queued for up to 45 minutes, while the ferry company fortunately waited, even if you are not obliged to do so under contract?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133405	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133406	Thank you for the question. I understand very well that there is particular attention to this issue, and it will probably also be ongoing, not only from the questioner, but for all those who are interested in travelling to and from Bornholm. So let me just state that I fully understand that the questioner is constantly raising this question. And I can tell you that, as Minister of Transport, I am and have been in dialogue with my Swedish colleague on the whole transit issue. The discussions with the Swedish authorities on an agreement on transit via Sweden to Bornholm are being conducted by the Foreign Minister, to whom I know the questioner has also asked questions. The reason for this is that, where appropriate, it is an agreement between two states, and that is why it is in the hands of the Foreign Minister. It is important that there is as smooth and effective mobility between Bornholm and the rest of Denmark through Sweden as possible, and the government agrees that greater predictability and not least greater security for transit to and from Bornholm can be an advantage. And I know that dialogue with the relevant ministries is currently being conducted in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that there are various possibilities, in dialogue with Sweden, for improving transit to and from Bornholm. More concrete questions about the intergovernmental agreement must therefore be put to the Foreign Minister. But Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, of course, also mentions this specific situation, which was a great day of prayer, and I would like to say at least that I am very pleased with the great flexibility shown by the ferry company, even though the questioner is actually not obliged to do so. In fact, it also pointed out very well that, in the exceptional situation we have been in, there have been many examples that the various operators, and especially the Bornholmers themselves, have been extremely flexible and willing to find solutions. Of course, I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133610	Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133611	Thank you. There's no doubt about it. I have also spoken to the Minister for Foreign Affairs here in the same place as we are now, and I just did not get any concrete answers on which way we should go. You're in dialogue, aren't you? But it is the two transport ministers who have to find each other that was the answer almost from the Minister's colleague. I am well aware that it is not an easy matter. But hopefully it will be warmer soon, and then the summer break will come, and then the great travel days will come. It would be a shame for all the great work that Bornholm has done to brand Bornholm and attract tourists in order to create growth and employment, and not least for full-year employment, which does not hang on the trees on Bornholm if and if you have to leave some drivers because they are waiting in line on the Storebælt Bridge. We are simply forced to find a solution. And then it may be that the conciliation circle has to talk about the fact that when the route is now social, and if you have to wait, you will not be fined, as you actually do today, if you do not sail on time. We are simply forced to undo this precisely to ensure that Bornholm's branding value does not fall to the ground if someone is left behind, for who will sit in a car when the last ferry has sailed, with two children etc. And then was going to find accommodation in Ystad?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133732	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133733	I think the questioner came to say the Storebælt Bridge, but I think the Øresund Bridge meant it. It should not be that... Peter Juel-Jensen Same thing). You can also keep in line on the Storebælt Bridge. But I think that is an excellent point which the questioner also makes here about potential penance. I cannot explain that on a stand-by basis; I should like to look deeper into that, because we also have some discussions on how we can, moreover, strengthen transport to and from Bornholm in connection with infrastructure, so I would like to return to that point but a very good point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133812	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133813	Then I should ask the Minister the question: Has the Minister personally visited the bridge and stood there for an hour or two and then looked at how the crossing of the bridge went and perhaps invited his Swedish colleague and said: should we not have a cup of coffee while we are looking at all those cars that are running back and forth? Because the point of a bridge must be to make connections and not queues. Should not the two transport ministers, in their presence, put some pressure so that we could also get things moving here? Because, as I understand it, it is today that there is no dialogue between the bridge and the ferry company, so you can easily have sold out ferries without knowing on the bridge that there will be a lot of pressure on the bridge. Should we not also ensure that there is a better connection?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133900	Here you go, Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133903	I've been out at Peberholm it wasn't just recently, but it was under the auspices of that I had to focus on cross-border infrastructure and it's a great place to visit. I actually thought it was a pretty good inspiration. I have invited my Swedish colleague to meet physically when it is possible with all the corona restrictions, etc., because I have had quite a lot of virtual meetings with my Swedish ministerial colleague. Good inspiration... I'm gonna take that to the back of my head if I couldn't be an idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133939	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512133940	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister is taking this positive step, because as well as the Minister and I have a good personal relationship, we should ensure that we also have it for the Swedish Minister for Transport at all times, because that means just as much. And then maybe you should try to see if you could make a better connection between the bridge and the shipping company, because then the shipping company could call the bridge and say: We have a sold-out crossing, and you will probably open an extra track or two, because there will be pressure on it and that crossing. Is this something that the Minister will take back and look at, so that we can create this link so that the least possible thing remains in line? This may not be entirely avoidable, but it must be preferable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134022	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134023	In fact one could also imagine the other way around, that if one can see on the Øresund bridge that there are relatively long cows and that it must be some ferry move, there may also be some exchange of experience, the exchange of knowledge the other way. If so, I do not know how to do so, but at least I will take that further as an inspiration for it. That is certainly an excellent idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134051	Thank you to the Minister for Transport, and thank you to the author, Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen. There are no more questions for the Minister of Transport. The next item is item on the agenda. 6, and this is a question for the Minister for Children and Education, and it is by Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134113	Thank you. I have to read out the first question, and I actually don't even bring it up here, but I'm getting it now. The question is: will the Minister think that the work of boarding schools with children is an important contribution to the best possible upbringing of children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134133	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134136	Yes, in the case of some boarding schools it makes very good sense to teach and also relevant social offers to the students, but that is to say, the course around Havregården Board School and also the supervision of other selected schools also shows examples of the opposite, and that is why I think we should be careful not to cut them over a comb and just say that it is either good or bad. It's no good that ordinary boarding schools have too many children. They are not created for this in relation to the form of government. And now the questioner himself is a former Minister of Social Affairs and therefore knows how important it is and how long it has been spent screwing up legislation, for example. the legislation on adult responsibility. It does not apply to boarding schools which have many children in their care, and it does not, by its very nature, provide a clear framework for the use of force against children and young people in their care, and it regulates for example. and how the staff can and cannot keep a child in relation to taking the child to another living room and all sorts of other things that the questioner is well aware of and that a great deal of effort has been devoted to screwing up. And it hasn't been screwed up for fun because it is because we need a special framework and special attention for a group of children and young people who have some particular difficulties and are in a particularly vulnerable situation. Therefore, it is problematic that we have a situation in which some boarding schools take in pupils, including many pupils who are housed children, and that the children placed are not protected by, for example, children. the law on adult responsibility. After all, the boarding schools have the possibility of transforming themselves into places of placement, and I have heard several people say that then the boarding schools will just close and one thing and the other. In other words, it is a decision they then make themselves and for all sorts of reasons other than what we have proposed. For what is important to me and to the government is that children and young people are given the right protection, but that there are also different types of places, because children are different and young people are different, and there I am sure that boarding schools can also play a role if we get those frameworks in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134343	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134344	Well, when I ask you directly whether the minister thinks that the work of the boarding schools is an important contribution, it is because last year, in 2020, the minister sent a letter to, among others. a school manager for one of the boarding schools on the basis of a VIVE report and commended the work of boarding schools. For example, the letter stated: "The government has a desire to give children and young people the best possible up&#x2; growth. This also applies to children and young people with a challenging background and start of life. In this context, free schools also have a responsibility to contribute to the community. Your work at boarding schools, where you receive children placed, is an important contribution to this. So the Minister has actually signed up positively for the study that came last year and said that the boarding schools are making a very important contribution. But we can now see here this year that the Minister then proposes a ceiling on how many children must be placed in boarding schools, and that stands in stark contrast to the very fine letter sent by the Minister last year. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134449	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134450	No, I mean, when we do, for example. In fact, creating a ceiling on the class ratio in the primary school is not an expression of the fact that we do not think that the primary school makes an important contribution to teaching and forming Danish school children. And when we go in and set a ceiling here, it is because we believe that it makes the offer better and ensures a better framework around the children and young people who are there. What is my great concern, as I also said in my initial reply, is that the boarding schools are not under the law on adult responsibility, which means that there is not the same protection for the children and young people, and therefore we need to go in and look at the framework and get them screwed together in a proper way. So adjusting things, whether primary or secondary, or whatever else, may be associated with thinking that things work really well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134538	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134539	But it seems strange that last year the minister sends a letter to the boarding schools and praises the positive efforts, but then this year says that the very same schools do not have the skills to help and lift the pupils. The minister writes further in his letter: In the report I note that children and young people who have been placed in one of your seven boarding schools, free basic schools with a boarding department, do well in comparison with children and young people from other types of placement when you look at their education and self-reliance as 25-year-olds. It's a snare, 'cause they're actually doing better. So why set a ceiling on the number of children placed if the children who are at boarding school are actually doing better?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134620	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134621	I don't really understand what the weird thing is. Mrs Mai Mercado herself has put a great deal of effort into the law on adult responsibility, which means that if Mrs Mai Mercado does not mean it seriously, then that was a rather special way of acting as a minister. I mean it seriously, and I believe that the agreement that the Social Democratic Party helped to conclude on whether the law on adult responsibility is essential in order to create a very good framework for children and young people in positions of responsibility. Therefore, I do not think that the fact that we are strengthening the framework for children and young people and going in and looking at the structures around it and constantly improving it contrasts with the fact that we have places that provide excellent offers to the young, and we must then also create the best possible framework for them in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134703	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134704	I mean, if I wanted to ask questions about adult responsibility, I'd call the Minister of Social Affairs to answer the questions. At the end of this letter from 2020, the minister writes that the results of the study will be part of the ministry's work, and it has to be said at best that this is a record, because it has not been part of the ministry's work. How can initiatives from this study be part of the ministry's work, when what the ministry and the minister have actually been working on has been making initiatives which stubborn the boarding schools, by making a proposal that attacks this form of school and will thus create a ceiling on how many children are placed in boarding schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134741	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134741-2	But I simply do not share Mrs Mai Mercado's assessment. These are precisely the results that are also part of our deliberations, and we would like to ensure a better framework for children and young people who are placed. I would say that I think it is deeply irresponsible that, as a former Minister for Social Affairs, we are standing and saying that we will only discuss the law on adult responsibility with the Minister for Social Affairs, because one of the challenges here is that there is a huge overlap, and the boarding schools, which have many children, are actually promising a huge piece of social policy work, and that is why we must, of course, take a position on the interface between social legislation on the one hand and the legislation on education on the other, so that we can go all the way around. And it is therefore important that boarding schools have a better framework for dealing with the task they are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134825	Thank you to the Minister for Education. Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado. There are no more questions and answers in this round. Mrs. Mai Mercado, we're just gonna get the liquor off. That was the end of paragraph 6, and so we move on to item 7 on the agenda, and it is also to the Minister for Children and Education. This time, it's by mr. Stén Knuth from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134853	Here you go, sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134854	Thank you, President. What will the Minister do to remedy the problems that many of the country's dyslexic 9th class students have just experienced with the compensatory aids for their written examination in Danish, and will the Minister offer the students concerned that they will have to take the test again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134911	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512134913	I must point out that the last thing is actually already possible, as the rules are today. And I would say that this is actually an area where I would be rather worried if we centralised the answers. Children and young people, including those with dyslexia, are very, very different from the examination situation, and that means that what would be an offer for some, where you could be allowed to change it, would just almost feel like a threat to others who thought that it worked fine, that you waited a few hours and then you had got it over with. Therefore, I really think that the cut is right in relation to the fact that it is the individual head of the school who has to decide on it, and they have the tools to do so in relation to saying: Here there have been so great challenges that we are just taking the exam again and offering it to the students. I would say that I find it extremely regrettable that we have been in a situation where on 3 and 5 May, with regard to some pupils with dyslexia, there were difficulties in accessing the tools needed. I have sent an answer to the question, and it is of course about the fact that there were problems with this aid programme, which is not, by the way, one that the Ministry of Education is running. It is an aid programme that municipalities and schools have purchased, and yet we have chosen to make contact with them, even though it is not really our job to do so. This is what the board, in other words STUK, has chosen to do in order to prevent us from facing such a situation in the future, for it should be avoided as a matter of course. On the very day of the test, the board also advised the schools both by email and by texting how they could deal with the problems that then arose, so that they were immediately told how to deal with the problems of extending the probationary period for the students, so that they could be allowed to take the test with aids. The government has therefore done and will do everything it can to ensure that it does not resurrect, and in the situation it has done what it should do. In this test period, i.e. May-June 2021, the students can then be so and so, in addition to this, they can have their posture grades elevated to test grades if the posture grade is higher than the test grade, and that scheme then provides an extra safety net right this year. However, I would like to stress that there are already rules in place which allow the school managers to offer a review or a definite re-examination to the pupil if there have been significant errors and shortcomings in the test situation which may have an impact on the grade setting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135134	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135135	Thank you. I am also against centralising the decisions from in here, but we are in a special situation, and I think the Minister also points that out. And it is true that we were given an answer that one could come to the test again if it was, and it could then take place in December of this year and in January of next year. Or maybe I'll just get back to it. It is true that STUK advised the 9-10th classes, which experienced the problems with the aids on 3 and 5 May, and said that it would then be possible to extend the tests of these young people so that they could finish them. However, just to take up the situation in which the young people we are talking about, who are already challenged, are sitting in: they are sweating, they cannot make the aids work, and the alternative is that they can extend the test. I do not think this is particularly appropriate in relation to the challenges faced by young people in this situation. The board then writes on Friday 7 May that one can both elevate the position character, but that one can also go for the reexamination later this year. I received a lot of inquiries and have been in dialogue with the Ordblind/Dysleksiforeningen, from which I was to salute, and they also feel well heard by the Minister. So in view of dyslexia, corona and tests that teased some of the young people, will the Minister not look at whether the reexamination, which is due in December this year and January next year, can be brought forward for those pupils who need it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135332	In fact, I do not think that there is a very great need for people to move on the date of that. I think it's unfortunate that you're in this situation for exams. Especially for those who are extra nervous when going up to the exam, it is extremely unpleasant to experience that the aids on which you are dependent do not work. If you are in the situation where this has happened, I really think that the tools that lie are good, that is to say understood in this way: if they were going to the exam to get started with their youth education, for example, then I would have no doubt that I would say to the rapporteur that we would of course have to go in and look at it in relation to moving at that time of trial, so...
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135408	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135409	Yes, it may be that the Minister is allowed to reply, because I would like to hold on to this, so why you cannot come to the test in August, but have to wait until later this year. It may be that the Minister has to reply to it in writing afterwards, but is it about the economy, or is it because there are no tests in place, or what is it about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135435	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135436	I can send you a written summary of this because it is about when re-examinations have already been planned. I'll pass something on to that. But what I think it is important to focus on here is that sometimes, when you go to the exam, it is actually crucial that you can start something in August. That is why it is important that the exam should be before that time, otherwise you will be prevented from moving on in the course. That is not the case here. That is to say, on this basis, I think that the test time can be fine on both the one and the other date, which is why we can stick to the date. But it is because they are not prevented from moving forward in education from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135514	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135515	But there will be some of the 10th classes that cannot move forward because they will then have to audition again later this year. And they should have actually started a youth training course, whether it was hf, or it was high school or a vocational training course, which they can't go on because they just can't get to the exam until December or January. So this vintage of students, who are strongly challenged by corona and they didn't have tests last year, had such an experience this year that was really bad. Shouldn't we try to help them this August so they can get to the test earlier?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135556	Minister of Education, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135557	Now I can't stand every single case, so you have to send it over afterwards if you have a specific case. But what is going on, and especially this year, is that there are no 10th-classes who do not just get their stand marks instead. This means that there are no cases where they apply for something and cannot enter because they lack that examination. I cannot deny that there may be individual cases, but in general it applies to the 10th classes, including those who have dyslexia in their luggage, that they get their stand marks and can make good progress in the education system. That is what I think is crucial. But let us clarify this if there are single examples. It may be that they are not aware that this is the case, and then it is important that we send that signal, because it is a different year in coronatide and different rules that apply to position characters. And, of course, I'd like to help figure that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135645	Thank you to the Minister for Education, thank you to Mr. Stén Knuth. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. Time passes quickly when you are concerned with the questions. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8, and this is for the Minister of Employment, and this time by Mr. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135707	Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135710	Thank you. What initiatives will the Minister take to prevent pointless work tests and employment efforts, for example? do not bring citizens to and from their place of residence so that they can enter a form of work test for two hours when there is a medical estimate that this would only worsen the situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135730	Minister of Employment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135731	Thank you very much for the question. It is always regrettable when such individual cases arise where there are citizens who feel insecure in relation to the efforts that the municipality grants them. That also impresses me. However, I think that the legislation, including in particular the future adjustments resulting from our joint agreement on better management of resources, must take account of the fact that municipalities must adapt their efforts to the needs and concerns of the individual. This must always be done on the basis of a concrete assessment and with due regard, including for the health of the citizen. The citizen must meet with goodness and dignity. Efforts in resource processes must make sense, and municipalities must not search citizens for resource paths where content is not realistic in terms of developing ability to work. It is the responsibility of the municipalities within the legal framework and in accordance with the intention of the legislation to assess how best to help the citizen further. Efforts must always be adapted to the health situation of the citizen and, in any case, efforts must never worsen or, in any case, lead to a risk to the health of the citizen. This is actually very clear from the legislation. Furthermore, we have decided, together with the agreement on better governance of resources from December 2020, to introduce a right for those citizens who are concerned about having to take part in an effort. They shall be entitled to an interview with a health coordinator who may advise in relation to whether sufficient consideration has been given to the health situation of the citizen. In addition, it follows from the legislation that the municipality must adjust or interrupt efforts if the citizen is too ill to participate in offers or if there is a risk that the health of the citizen will deteriorate. Finally, I would like to stress that the citizen can always contact the municipality in the event of dissatisfaction with the proceedings, as well as complain about an offer to the Ankestyrelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135930	Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512135931	I wish it were. I am standing here with Fagbladet 3F, who has uncovered a case, and it says here: "The City of Copenhagen will send the 49-year-old Tina Malmberg in a kind of work test for two hours a week, although two experts advise against employment-oriented courses. And this is the second resource cycle that Tina has been awarded and I think she herself considers it to be sentenced. Both an ergotherapist in 2019 and Center for Complex Symptoms at Frederiksberg's Hospital determine, for it risks exacerbating Tina's condition. It says: "The ability to function is very difficult to reduce. It is estimated that the situation will deteriorate by labour market-oriented measures even in the course of maximum care and few hours. Neither the Mayor of Copenhagen nor the Employment and Integration Administration will go into this matter. So now's the Minister's chance. I am well aware of the agreements we have made, including the improvements and adjustments we made back in 2018. But the reality is the more it is described by 3F. And that's why Tina also asks, "How far do they want me down with her neck?" ▪ I will pass this question on to the Minister and perhaps also along with the question: What is it they do not understand in the City of Copenhagen, or what are we going to do about here in the Danish Parliament if this behaviour is really legal? One thing is our intentions from in here and our changes to the rules on resource progression. Something else is how it is interpreted and translated in the municipalities. Minister, the sick need you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140116	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140117	Well, thank you. And I can assure both the sick and Mr. Karsten Hønge said that from the government's point of view and from my own side, we are only interested in helping people. That is the whole point of a process of resource development. And I also believe that Mr. Karsten Hønge is both aware and also well aware that I cannot go into this specific case. However, the main point is that a process of resource development must make sense, and when the municipality initiates the process of resource development, it must always be done on the basis of an assessment that the citizen can develop his or her ability to work with the right help and support and, of course, the health situation of the citizen must also be taken into account. And that is one of the points we have made in the recent agreement that we have made together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140203	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140204	Yes, again, I just have to start by saying, "I wish it were so well." For reality consists of a number of specific cases. And it is of no use that we here in the Danish Parliament believe that we have passed the right laws, yet in the municipalities we see progress as what we see here with Tina Malmberg, who takes painkillers every day five times a day and has a home helper every 14 days to vacuum and wash his floor in her two-bedroom apartment. As Tina says, when I take a step, it's like getting a spear through my body. ▪ Here it is just that I have to ask when the municipality does not take responsibility: Does the Minister take responsibility for the consequences of sending Tina into another resource cycle?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140242	So, I would like to stress once again that the whole point of resource development is, of course, to help the citizen closer to the labour market and to provide help and support for the citizen to develop his or her ability to work. And Mr. Karsten Hønge is quite right in saying that reality consists of concrete examples, and these are the concrete examples that we are also using to shape amendments and reforms of legislation. And some of those things are, among other things. the agreement we have jointly made back in December 2020, which, on the one hand, shortens the length of the sequence of resources and, on the other, limits the number of times you can be allocated a resource path and, on the other, gives the citizen the right to have a health coordinator.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140325	Here you go, Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140326	Well, I would like to confirm that we have the best intentions with the laws we have made and with the guidelines we have made in relation to resource sequences. But the point is that we have to do something if we in here at Christiansborg believe that reality is in a certain way and that the municipalities behind the windows handle the sick citizens in such an inhuman way as they do here, yes, we have to do something. Now Tina was one example, but last December, the specialist magazine 3F had a similar case from Faxe, where a man who has had his legs broken and who has, incidentally, ptsd, still insists on sending him into the process of resource development. I really believe that the sick citizens need the Minister to contact KL and send out a message to the municipalities that there is something they have not understood out there. It may be that there are some things we haven't understood in here, but there are at least things they haven't understood in the municipalities, and it needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140410	Here you go to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140411	Sir. Karsten Hønge should have no doubt that every individual case, whether it concerns a citizen in the course of a resource or somewhere else, in other words where a citizen gets caught up in the employment effort, makes a great impression on me. It is also for the same reason that I have declared as an employment policy objective to the municipalities that dignity must be an independent objective to strive for, which the municipalities must try to pursue in the administration of these rules. It is necessary to take account of the citizen, and the orientations we have made with our agreement of December 2020, which we have not finished legislation on, I believe will also be another step towards helping many more citizens and preventing citizens from getting stuck.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140457	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. We're just gonna have to get the booze off, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no more questions for the Minister for Employment and paragraph 8 is over. So we move on to paragraph 9. The question is to the Minister for Culture, and this is asked by Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140527	Thank you. Will the Minister explain whether the government has a plan to save the Danish festival model, which is based on non-profit thinking and voluntaryness, and which, after two seasons of cancellations, is hard pressed financially?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140543	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140544	I assumed that the author's party and the government, together with a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties, had a plan to save the Danish festival model, which is based precisely on non-profit thinking and voluntaryness. What we did was that we made this extended, adapted organizer scheme to hold hands under the organisers, and in this context also includes a separate pool for the charitable festivals organisation, and what is now appearing is unfortunately that with the agreement of 4 May 2021 here, which is also widely anchored among the parties of the Folketing, the framework for the organisation of major events has resulted in a large number of festivals having cancelled. I am sure that the rapporteur, along with me and many others, had hoped that it could have been different. I fully share the great respect for the efforts and commitment of artists and volunteers, associations and the festival market and other major events organisations. On the way, we have always been in close dialogue with the industry, and it has made us better at understanding which challenges are very special to the industry, and some of what we have learned, some of what has become very clear at these meetings, is this special construction that these festivals have. It has both played a part in this organizational arrangement, but it is also something that I think we should bring into the negotiations that are going on precisely these days on the summer package, so that we can get around all parts of the ecosystem, which together is the Danish festival world. How exactly we do that, we must find out in the summer package, but one thing must be certain, and that is that we are all looking forward to having festivals again, and that is why we must give them the security they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140731	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140733	Thank you. This is a really serious situation, and I am genuinely concerned that we see a significant part of the history of Denmark, i.e. the festivals, the unique and unique festival models, get to rustle away here. It is true that we set up an organizer scheme back a few months ago, but the agreement was clear at the time that it was going to work before the cancellations came. You didn't choose to do that. The government has chosen to send it out only after the restrictions have been chosen for the summer, and thus the organizer scheme does not work. The Minister himself has asked the festivals to plan carefully, and they do, of course, because they have a great financial responsibility, they have to live up to it, and there is also a great responsibility on the supplier side, which is why we have not been able to conclude these agreements and contracts because we have not sent out the notice. That is why I would like to ask the Minister again: what will the government do to save a hard-pressed festival industry, but indeed also the whole supply chain around, because they are now getting 0 in compensation, while the government has announced that now we are going to phase out all aid packages? It does not seem very fair to an industry that has been closed down during the period when they have to earn their money and where the labour market for them is closed down and has even been virtually de facto de facto since the beginning of the corona that they are left on the platform. That is why I would like to ask again: is the government intending to call for new negotiations so that we can make sure that the festivals and the whole industry around the suppliers, the musicians, etc. can get through and can stand again on top of this crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140926	Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512140927	Although the organising scheme that I, as Minister for Culture and I, as cultural rapporteurs, helped to negotiate, is administered by the Ministry of Business, there is no doubt that this is something that we must continue to focus on, because this must not happen. After all, we all have the full focus on the scenario presented by the rapporteur, which is why I think the question is a bit strange, so the rapporteur asks when the government will call for negotiations. I have just been to such a negotiating meeting yesterday, where there were precisely discussions on the situation of festivals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141007	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141008	The seriousness of the situation does not change whether it is the Minister for Industry or the Minister for Culture, and I fully agree that the organisation is located in the area of the Ministry of Industry, but that the festivals themselves are a resort area under the Ministry of Culture. That is why I ask the Minister what the government is going to do to ensure the survival of festivals and the entire industry around it. After all, some of the biggest festivals haven't even got their compensation for the last because they disappear if we don't do anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141049	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141050	I fully agree that as Minister for Culture, I am • and the culture rapporteurs, I am quite sure that everyone is very concerned about the festivals. But legally speaking, the festivals are in the Ministry of Business. That is why I have to say that, for example: on the question of payments, it is difficult for me to respond in concrete terms. However, the last time, the rapporteur asked, there was at least a very great desire from festival organisations to be able to apply as late as possible to make sure that everything was included. This has been done by the vast majority of festivals, which is why the payments are still being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141131	Thank you. Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141133	Whatever the case, it is important that, as a government, we also take responsibility for a festival industry that has no opportunity to do anything different. With the way the restrictions are made, there are not so many other things to do and nothing else to do. The organization will not be able to enter into force because the contracts are not made. So I ask again, and it may be that I did not listen properly to what the Minister said just now: will the government be willing to make a new aid package for the festivals and the entire industry and suppliers around it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141210	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141210-2	After all, what I presented on behalf of the government prior to the negotiations currently under way on the summer package is precisely to ensure that we get the activity stimulated throughout the industry, which among other things. is a subcontractor or main organiser of festivals and large markets. Exactly how, of course, is the sort of thing we are discussing in the negotiating room where the rapporteur's party is also represented, as is the rapporteur's party in the agreement on restrictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141242	Thank you both. There are no more questions and answers in this question. But it is the same team in Question No. 10 on the agenda, because it is also for the Minister for Culture, and it is also for Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141256	Thank you. Will the Minister explain what the government will do to ensure that after a year and a half the Danish music scene survives and thus can still make a major contribution to the development of our common culture?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141310	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141311	I would very much like to start by emphasising that it is very important for the government that, in relation to the Danish music scene, which together with the drama are some of those who are hardest challenged by the covid-19, we get our hands on the whole industry. And that goes for everything from communal singing to the big festivals, because, unfortunately, during the corona they are some of the events that have been very difficult to hold. That is also why we, together with the parties of the Danish Parliament, have, according to a report and a half years ago, actually become the country in the Nordic region that has set the most money aside to support the cultural area. From now on, there will be the customized organizer scheme in relation to these major events, but in connection with the launch of the government's thoughts about the summer package which is currently being negotiated, among other things. The questioner's party, too, is really about stimulating activity. Last autumn we got together an activity pool that supports cultural activities, and which has also gone exactly to the most affected industries. These are some of the concrete measures that I hope we can contribute to while we look at help packages, of course, and other good experiences, in terms of how we get all parts of this hard-hit industry picked up. In other words, we have already made a significant effort at this stage, and one of our greatest forces I think is to keep in close contact with the industry, so that we really get them back to work to the delight of the artists, but also the whole crewet around it and then in fact just for all Danes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141446	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141447	I fully share the Minister's intention to set activities in motion and thus get people out on the concert scenes, because there is no doubt that it is there they would rather be than sitting at home and getting a check through the door from the state. But if you ask the musical life, if you ask the artists, the musicians, the sound engineers, the dancers etc. it won't be the same picture when they tell about it. Because they have been telling us for many months, written to us, that they are not getting anywhere near the financial compensation that is needed. They have had major challenges in not being able to be covered in relation to the income that is suddenly gone, because now there are no arrangements. They have had enormous difficulty in proving their previous activity level because there has been a very bureaucratic demand for these artists to be able to document what they have previously dealt with and the extent of it. In addition, the entire industry is also enormously seasonal. There are some seasons that give more than others, and it has also challenged them. So there is no doubt that we ask the people who are involved, the artists, they do not even see that they have been sufficiently taken into account and thought about in these negotiations, and I know that the Minister has heard me say this several times in various areas of negotiation. I have a particular concern for both the established artists and the middle-known artists, but indeed also the growth layer, and that is why it is so crucial that we, as politicians in here at Christiansborg, ensure that we hold a hand under them, but actually also look forward, so that we ensure that there is life and growth in this industry forward-looking. And the cancellation of the festivals is a huge blow to the Danish music scene. Then the Minister thinks that the government's proposal for the 315 million. kr. in the cultural field, is enough to save both the entire cultural sector, but in particular the Danish music scene?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141658	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141658-2	Thank you very much. It is true that these are well-known issues which the questioner outlines, but I think the questioner needs to tell how we have actually picked up these things on a regular basis. This administrative thing and how to prove that you have the right to lost earnings, we got fixed up late in the winter, anyway, because we had made all these many arrangements. The seasonal we have entered and have made separate arrangements for both last summer and here for Christmas, so that those who had high season there could get extra help. And in relation to talents and the growth layer, we have taken this into account, among other things. to follow the reboot team's recommendations. So whether President Dkr. I'll just come back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141737	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141738	Thank you. When we look at who has received most of these payments, it is institutions and organisations. It's not the artists. The artists have simply not been able to help enough yet, and it is vital that they can somehow afford to pay their rent and food to the family at home for it to continue. So I ask again: is it the view of the Minister that 315 million? kr. is enough to save the Danish music scene? And could the government be willing to enter into further negotiations on a slightly longer-term investment package that can hold hands under a rather pressured Danish music scene?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141821	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141822	About the 315 million. kr. If we do not have enough, we will not be able to negotiate when we have a course of negotiations at the same time. So 315 million. kr. It is the government's initiative for what we can stimulate activity with. So how much money is it? I can, for example. draw the parallel to the activity pool, which, since its introduction in the autumn, has paid out 1⁄2 billion. kr. exclusively for activity, i.e. exclusively for the employment of artists. So it is true that of course this money has been paid out to institutions, but they have gone to do work for artists. It is in fact there, and it has also been important that we have remembered to keep these institutions up because it is their jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141904	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141905	Yes, but when you look again at who it is that has received subsidies, who it is that has gone on, it has been the most established artists. They've been the ones who've had sold out tours. In this way it has been a very closed circle, very limited who can come near the activity pool. Therefore, there has been no support for the large activity level within the Danish music scene, where it is important that there is some kind of dynamic in relation to both the growth layer and the more established. So I would like to hear again: is the government willing, and will the Minister help us make a round of longer-term investments so that the Danish music scene can pass forward, and also that we hold hands under those who fall completely away?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141952	Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512141954	Unfortunately, I have to correct the questioner again, because it is simply not true that there has been any demand that only the established artists could be used for the pool of activities. On the contrary, we have greatly expanded the concept of culture in relation to what was before the covid-19 on the concept of culture, precisely in order to get the whole layer of talent, the layer of growth. We have created a temporary art aid scheme, just so that those who also had a very low income could go in and get support. So I just don't recognize that picture, although I know it's still been super hard. And that is why we must continue to stimulate activity. We'd love to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142028	Thank you to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF. There are no more questions from her. Thank you, too, to the Minister for Culture. But there are also questions to the Minister for Culture on Question 11, and this time it is from Mrs Inger Løjberg, UFG.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142045	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that a journalist in DR, funded by the Danes through license and state support, provided OLAF with information on his own initiative for the specific investigation of an elected politician, while the journalist covered the case in the media?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142105	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142106	My position is that the DR must be objective and impartial in their journalistic coverage. We must not be able to suspect DR of being governed by special political interests, and we must be able to rely on the fact that there are no personal or political motives under the stories that the DR brings. As far as the specific case is concerned, it is, after all, the Executive Board of the DR that has overall programme responsibility. It is very precisely formulated in the Radio and Television Act, while it is the Director-General who has the day-to-day programme responsibility and is responsible for day-to-day administrative and financial management. So, of course, I expect DR to be aware of its responsibility as a publicly funded public service media, and if DR's journalists go beyond the press ethics guidelines, the DR's own ethical guidelines or other rules, then of course the DR's management has to deal with it. It is also my impression that the DR has done, it is perhaps already in the process, in the sense that the DR has publicly rejected the criticism that has been raised, but that a member of the DR's board has also asked the DR for a statement on the matter. This is the process under way in the DR, which I believe is their responsibility. Then, of course, there is room for us politicians to have an opinion on DR too, but I do not think we should go in and interfere in this way with the editorial priorities of independent media or how specific journalists act. In the end, I would also like to mention that we also have a press board in Denmark to which you can complain if you feel unfairly treated by the press in Denmark. This is precisely how the Danish system works, and it is also fundamental to ensure the independence of the media and to protect the media from political interference, because freedom of the press is a fundamental principle of our democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142302	Inger Løjberg, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142303	Thank you. Firstly, I am very pleased to hear that the Minister is actually taking this matter seriously, I think. I am so little sorry that the Minister will not make a few more words, but I can try to get that here on the second question. So a few more words about what concern the Minister has if the Minister has a concern, and I sense that the Minister actually has that. For the Minister concludes by saying that now it is my rewrite of it that one must be very careful with a political interference in the editorial line, which I very much agree with, and that we have freedom of the press, but then the Minister starts by saying that it is very, very important that Denmark's Radio is factual, credible and also impartial. The Minister must correct me if I cannot interpret it in such a way that the Minister is actually concerned about this matter, and I would ask the Minister to put a little more words on the concerns that the Minister may have, and I can say that this is a concern I fully share if the Minister has the concern that I assume she has.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142432	Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142433	But what can be deduced in concrete terms is that I and the questioner, and I believe that this is also the case with the majority of the Folketing, agree that DR must be objective and impartial, but I also understand that we agree that those who have to take responsibility for DR are DR's management, that is DR's board of directors and Director-General. At this stage, I can see that they have rejected the criticism, but that a statement is also under way. That is why the matter is being dealt with in the right places.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142504	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142505	So I can ask you very briefly: how does the Minister intend to follow up on this matter now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142510	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142511	This is not a matter in which I intend to intervene at this stage, because it is precisely a matter for the management, the management and the Director-General of the DR. And I don't have any evidence to go into it right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142525	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142526	I did not ask the Minister to intervene either. I asked the Minister to tell us what the Minister's thinking is going to happen here as a follow-up to this matter. For now the Minister says, which is also true, that a statement has been asked on this matter, and what does the Minister intend to do with that statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142545	As I said, it is not me who asked for the statement, but the Executive Board of the DR, and I think it would be such a premature start to say that I will act on something they are doing. It is their responsibility, they are the ones who follow up the specific case. It's actually quite the way it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142600	Thank you to the Minister for Culture and thank you to Mrs Inger Løjberg. That was the end of paragraph 11. Then it's point 12, and it's the same team.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142608	Here you go, Mrs. Inger Løjberg. It is also a question for the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142611	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that the case of DR journalist Ole Ryborg's involvement in OLAF's investigation of Morten Messerschmidt gives rise to the Minister's inscription of good press ethics towards DR?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142626	I'm sorry if any of this is going to be a repeat, but if you only look at this issue, I think it's important to make it clear here too that the DR must be objective and impartial in its journalistic coverage. We must not be able to suspect DR of being governed by special political interests, and we must be able to rely on the fact that there are no personal or political motives under the stories that the DR brings. As a result, of course, I expect the DR to follow the guidelines for good press practice. As I also explained in my answer to a previous question, the Radio and Television Law states that the overall responsibility for programmes lies with the DR Board and the Director-General of the DR. It is therefore also the responsibility of the chairman of the board and the Director-General to ensure that the DR shows good press behaviour. I can then also point out that you can also complain to the Press Office, which is a public, independent board that can agree to take decisions on media complaints. The media liability law states that the content and conduct of the media must be in line with good press practice, and if you feel unfairly treated, you can therefore complain to the Press Board. At this stage, I note that the first stage is the board of directors and the Director-General, the latter of which has denied that there should be something about the criticism, while the board has asked for a statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142751	Thank you. Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142752	One can have such a little feeling that the poetry button has been pressed over in the Ministry of Culture, and then there has been such a long answer out here without content. In fact, I did not ask about statements or anything, I am asking more directly now, whether the Minister agrees that the actor who is here means that it is now time for the Minister to inscribe the instructions for good press behaviour to Denmark's Radio.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142823	I only believe that we politicians should urge institutions which so much need corporate income tax at the political level if we suspect that they are not following it and that those who need to intervene should specific cases arise do not take their responsibility. In this situation there is a specific case that is being dealt with first by the day-to-day management and now also at board level. In this way, I do not think there is any evidence at this stage that I am intervening because these various points take their responsibilities seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142902	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142903	Now the Minister says: if you suspect that there are problems in following good press practice. Does the Minister suspect this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142914	I don't have any evidence of that. What it is just important to stick to is that it is the day-to-day management and the responsibility of the board, and if you don't feel quite comfortable about it, we also have this independent board that you can complain about if you feel unfairly treated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142931	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142932	In any case, it must be said that the Minister gets the bill of lading and maybe even in several lengths in this case. What if it turns out that there's actually something critical about this case? Will the Minister indicate that Denmark's Radio must, of course, follow the good press practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142949	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512142950	In fact, I believe that in my answers here and, incidentally, in my other words, as Minister of Culture, I am doing a great deal out of emphasising that it is so important that all the media that we have in Denmark, and in particular those that we support with public crowns, profess good press practice and also do so in everyday life in all cases and follow up on it if there is suspicion of the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512143017	Thank you. Then there are no more questions in this round, and that was also the end of Question Time. Thank you to the Minister for Culture, and thank you to Mrs Inger Løjberg outside the groups. Then there will also be a change of presidency before we have item 3 on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512143059	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Troels Ravn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512143118	Thank you for the floor. In the social democracy, we want everyone to pay the taxes they have to pay, no more and no less. This also means that we need a secure and effective debt recovery system. We are not alone in thinking so, and therefore a unanimous Parliament in 2017 concluded the agreement to strengthen the public debt recovery. Following the conclusion by the tax administration in 2015, that there were a number of challenges to the then recovery system, EFI, an important clean-up work has begun in order to create legal certainty and address the challenges of data errors that exist. That is why last year we implemented data law package I, and it showed that with data law package II, to which the draft law we are discussing today would follow up on the initiatives in data law package I. Although we are still in the process of cleaning up, we are moving forward. The Danish Debt Authority has put the new recovery system, PSRM, into operation, and by 2020 the Authority recovered approx. 10.4 billion kr., which is the highest amount in almost 10 years. However, we still need to clean up and ensure a better recovery framework. Therefore, this bill presents a number of change initiatives aimed at facilitating the transfer of debt from the old recovery system to more efficient recovery in the new system, supporting automated offsetting and setting up rules for non-recovery debts. These are technical changes which translate parts of the agreement to strengthen public debt recovery, and the amendments can be divided into four points. Firstly, it is proposed to introduce a series of measures to support approximately 1.1 million debt items at a market value of approx. 3.8 billion kr. can be transferred from the old recovery system to effective recovery in the new recovery system. Secondly, it is proposed to simplify the rules on excess amounts and to set an effective date for offsetting. In addition, it is also proposed that the offsetting should be possible on the basis of the data recorded, even if there may be untreated information on a debtor's debts. Indeed, it will support an automated counter-count, which is necessary in view of the fact that the number of set-offs is expected to increase in the coming years. Thirdly, if the public creditors have not provided sufficient information about the debtor, it is proposed that the Debt Board be given the opportunity to refuse debt. Finally, it is proposed, as the fourth, to adjust the deathboat tax law so that it is clear from which time the three-month period from the tax administration to make a claim against a estate is to be counted. This is to be seen in the context of the undertaking given by the Minister of Industry that he will submit a legislative proposal extending the deadline for companies to submit annual reports. This is a matter of urgency, and that is why it is included in this legislative proposal. So to round off: L 232 is a technical but nevertheless very important bill that helps to solve some complex clean-up tasks and ensure more effective debt recovery without data errors. This is important in order to strengthen citizens' confidence that everyone pays the tax and the debt they have to pay, no more and no less. The Social Democrats support the proposal and I should like to welcome it from the Enhedslisten and say that so does the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512143511	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is from the Left. Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512143540	This bill is a follow-up to the agreement to strengthen the public debt recovery from 8 June 2017, concluded by almost all parties of the Folketing. The parties to the agreement agree on measures to ensure the basis for a safe and effective future recovery of public debt. A key element in this is to solve the backward-looking clean-up tasks. Following this agreement, the first legislative package in this area, Data Law Package 1, was implemented with entry into force on 1 July 2020. Now comes Data Act Pack 2. It proposes rules to support an automated offsetting process, to facilitate the transfer of citizens to the new recovery system with a view to more efficient recovery and to facilitate the handling of payments for non-recoveryable debts, etc. It is important to ensure the basis for a safe and effective future recovery of public debt. It is not reasonable for other citizens to have to pay for those who do not pay their debts to the public. It is therefore important that a number of initiatives are put in place to ensure that the recovery of public debt is restored. Hopefully, there will also be a restoration of confidence in the tax system. The draft law supports the clean-up and conversion of debt items, thereby helping to improve future recovery, and it helps to bring more money into the Treasury. These are all sensible proposals, which is why the Left can support the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512143715	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left who is just getting ready for the next one. Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512143733	Thank you. One can typically say, when we have a draft law before us, that the more complicated it is, the less debate there will be, and I do not really expect much debate on this bill, I have to say frankly. It's a little technical, I guess. But it is really a bit strange that we are standing here, because I remember that before the last elections the former tax minister said that the new system was finished, now it was running, and since then we have had a lot of legislative proposals before the Parliamentary Chamber, proposals which we have actually made further to make it run, and it is quite positive that we are doing so, because I think it is actually a good and indeed crucial process for people's confidence in the tax system, that they are actually going to pay what they have to pay and that, when they have some debt, they are actually going to pay it. The reason why we are standing here is, of course, well known. We've been through, I think there's ten bills in everything we've been dealing with, including this. The background is, of course, that the recovery process has been down for many years, while the debt has just increased and increased, it is over 132 billion. kr. But there is also the problem that many of the old posts are flawed, and that is probably what we are dealing with most here, namely how to clean it up and move on, so that you do not always have such a backlog that you have to deal with, and then there are these data law packages that help deal with it. I also think we need to just acknowledge and say to the Danes that it is like changing the course of a carrier, that is, it is difficult, and it takes a little time to change it, and it does so with the recovery of the tax system, and it takes time for it to work. I understand that it may be frustrating that in the meantime you can just sit around and watch as the debt just rises and rises, but as we have now made ten legislative proposals to correct this, I think you can at least tell the Danes that the process is under way and that you are constantly trying to make things right. After all, it is important that we get IT support that will enable debt recovery to work in the future. With regard to the specific nature of the draft law, I would like to say that it is actually quite difficult to make a speech about, because it is 15 or 16 different elements, each of which is rather technical, so I will try to stick to the consultation answers. One of the things that is being criticised is that the legislation is being adapted to the IT systems, and not vice versa, in other words that the IT systems are being adapted to the legislation. And there I have to say that not only we as tax politicians, but also the state, have burned their fingers incredibly many times to believe that all IT can simply be adapted to legislation. So I actually think it is a good idea with the process that we have now been through, in which we have been trying for a very long time to adapt the legislation to something that, in practical terms, could also be done out in reality. This is a scare example of not having this process taken earlier. There is, of course, a limit to how far you can go down that road, but I actually think that the many legislative proposals we have had in this area are within the scope of the dial, because it is absolutely necessary that, if you are to be able to provide IT support for an area, the legislation must of course also be digitised, and that is what this is also an expression of. Then, of course, there is the criticism of the proposal that it should also be transparent for citizens, and I think that is a justified criticism, because although we have now simplified it many times, the legislation is still very complicated. And I have also mentioned to the tax minister by other means that I do not think that he agrees with the fact that the process must stop here, but that one must probably still hold on to the fact that it is not just being adapted to an IT system, but also generally looking at whether it can be made simpler in the future. I think that would be very good both for those who are sitting and managing it, but also for those citizens who must be able to see the legislation and act on it, and I think that process is going to be looked at more, so I do not think it will be the last time, even though we have been standing here ten times, I also think that there will be an elf and perhaps also the twelfth time, when we have to look at this area. But in the Danish People's Party we think it is absolutely crucial for people's sense of justice that we get this system back up and running, so that people can get the feeling that when you actually owe money, yes, you will also pay money. After all, the crucial thing is that some people have to sit around and see that others get a speeding ticket or a bill from a daycare centre and do not have to pay while they are wondering whether it is worth paying because the others are getting away. It is simply critical for our society if it starts to spread out there. We support this bill, because it is simply crucial that we get this area right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512144149	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Kathrine Ollyday.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512144210	Thank you for that, President. I would actually just like to put myself in the slipstream of the Danish People's Party's rapporteur and say that it is actually quite nice to have such a process here, where we have to say car racing, sometimes just driving the car in pit here in Parliament, and then we look at and adjust a little bit of legislation so that the legislation also fits the systems we are making so that we do not just try to get the systems to fit the legislation. We have seen the latter in a number of different tax contexts, for example. the housing tax area, that there may be some disadvantages if it is the case that you do not think a little smart from the start. So that's why I really appreciate this process. But a Formula 1 course may not be quite yet, but it might be within a very short time when we are going to look at the debt area overall and see if we really cannot build a Formula 1 race together. It is a little absurd right now, as it seems, that about 130 billion. kr. is the nominal value of the Danes' public debt, and only just under 30 billion. kr. of the total sum is then the market value, i.e. what we realistically have in store to be able to recover from the Danes. We'd like to get that up in gear, and I hope that happens. It may also be that, in his final speech, the Minister may just give a hint about what the timetable is for that. It might actually be very nice to hear here because we're just adjusting a little bit in the pits. I would just like to say that, of course, we support this, just like all the other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512144343	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party is. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512144401	It's a bit of an act going on here when you're dealing with a bill like that. One rapporteur after another goes up and pretends that they have understood the bill. The Socialist rapporteur had had a nice long talk with him over from the Ministry with an account of the technical aspects. In a moment, the tax minister will go up and he will also pretend that he understands the bill, but the truth is that none of us really do. Because this is extremely technical and it's about an IT system. There are 25 pages of amendments to the Rules of Procedure which I do not think anyone in this Chamber will be able to explain. There will probably only be a handful of people here on my left who have written the bill, who really understands what this is really about. The rest of us are at a level where we know that it is a question of creating a new IT system where it is a question of improving the tax administration's ability to recover money, and we can of course agree to that in principle. But there can be a lot of problems hidden in all these incredibly many changes to the law that we do not have technical knowledge or time or resources to properly understand. I am worried about what it means for the legal position of citizens, on the one hand, that we are at such a poor level of understanding as we are doing here, on the other hand, when I see that very, very few people have actually delved into the legislative proposal. Even the professional organisations have given up and have not been able to understand properly what this is all about. However, there is a single professional organisation which has indicated that this means a deterioration in the legal position of citizens, because you can no longer see exactly what kind of money you are being asked to pay or which is actually automatically taken for the citizens. I am concerned about this, and that is why our starting point is that we do not support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512144615	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party who is just getting ready for the next one. And then it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512144634	Thank you. I feel obliged to help the Conservative rapporteur, so I would like to review the bill and the technical part of it, so that we have clarity about these things. I would say that it was one of those bills where you had to drink an extra Faxe Kondi Booster to stay awake when you had to read through it, because it was very technical. But the intentions, and that is what we have to take up and I think it is fine, as the Conservatives' rapporteur says, that we are going to have to look into this legal situation between the citizens, is that we need to improve this system, which has not worked well enough, and there is a broad consensus on that. Much of this has happened before New Citizens came to Parliament, but I now believe that no matter who has been in the ministerial chair, there have been problems with this system. This is a further step towards correcting it; we think it is positive, and we should hope that it will work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512144735	Then we are through the rapporteurs who are in the Chamber. The next to speak is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512144745	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for your support, in general, for your support for the process of recovering the recovery system. It has been going on for quite a number of years now, and I think that is a peculiarity, that we are able to hold it together. This is, if you like, one of the biggest gears in our tax administration and thus in our welfare society, but indeed, if you rise up a little in the helicopter, in the whole question of right and duty, because if you have debt, you obviously have to pay it, and if there is a possibility, then the public sector, where you have left a debt and a bill, must, of course, have the opportunity to recover it. There have been some problems with this in recent years, which is why I am very pleased that we have been able to make broad agreements and that we can now, if you like, continue with the work that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær said, clean up and fine-tune the system and make it more efficient. That is what is needed. Just to follow up on that, as sir. Dennis Flydtkjær also suggested, so it will not be the last time that we will look at where we can simplify and make it simpler, i.e. make the legislation more simple. We will come back to that in our agreement. I am glad that attention has already been paid to this. However, as I said, thank you for your support for the draft law, which we are discussing here today. It is, of course, important, as I said, for the clean-up work that we are doing, following the EFI recovery system, and it is of course also to ensure more efficient recovery, as I said just now. The bill is made following an agreement concluded under the previous government. It is an agreement from June 2017, when the agreement on strengthening the public debt recovery was concluded, and it was, of course, endorsed by a unanimous parliament. If we are to try to give some status to the whole area of recovery, then the reality is that, although there is still a major recovery task, it is worth noting that, after all, there are bright points on the road to the recovery of public debt. The new recovery system, which we have jointly been investing in and developing, is currently in use in the Debt Board, and the wage holding has today come at a very good pace. By 2020, debt has been recovered for approx. 10.4 billion kr., and that is the highest level for almost 10 years, and that is, if I have to say so myself, a sure sign that the area is definitely heading in the right direction. At the same time, over 400 public creditors are so far connected to the new recovery system, and they can then pass on their unpaid claims for recovery. That is what is at the heart of the engine that we invested in. There should be no doubt that a major task still remains to clean up the total debt mass and make a larger part of it ready for recovery. Try to hold on, for by the end of 2020 there were 13.9 million debt items locked for recovery as a result of data errors. That's what we're cleaning up. In addition, further improvements to the recovery framework are still needed. If we try to look at the legislative proposal itself, there is, admitting, a very comprehensive but also very technical legislative proposal aimed at facilitating the transfer of debt from the old recovery system to this new, more effective recovery system, thereby supporting what is at the heart of it, i.e. the automatic offsetting of debts, and thus the establishment of rules for the payment of non-recovery debts, as it says. As I have said, the draft law contains a number of measures to support approx. 1.1 million debts at a market value of approx. 3.8 billion kr. can be transferred from the old recovery system to the new recovery system. What, then, is it about? This is, for example, the case. rules on the non-recalculation of small amounts of interest because the resources to recalculate interest are not in line with the amount of interest. In addition, it is also possible to mention the rules whereby, in certain situations, public creditors will be responsible for making unpaid repayment claims to a debtor, and the rules that the recovery of a debtor's debts in particular situations can also be stopped for a period of time. At the same time, the draft law also contains a number of measures to support what is at the heart, i.e. the automated set-off. The Debt Board each year manages hundreds of thousands of set-offs which require an automated process and, of course, the set-off must be made on a proper basis. That is set-off in, among other things. excess tax. This is an important recovery step just for information here, a revenue of approx. 3 billion kr. or nearly a third of the 10.4 billion. kr., as I mentioned before, of the total recovery proceeds in 2020. Furthermore, the number of set-offs, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned, is expected to increase in the coming years, which, of course, reinforces the need for automated set-off. The first step along the way is, as I said, regulatory simplifications that can help support this automation, which is the key to and core of our new system. As an example of such an approach, one can, for example: mention rules which provide for a clear and clear date of effect for offsetting and for the manner in which the set-off may be made, even if there may be untreated information on a debtor's debt. If we look at the other measures in the bill, the bill also contains rules on the handling of debtors' debts that are not ready for recovery and rules that allow the Debt Authority to recover debts when the public creditors have not provided sufficient information about the debtor. In addition to the proposed changes in the field of recovery, the draft law also contains a proposal for a minor adjustment of the deathboat tax law, so that it is clear from which time the three-month deadline for the tax administration to make a tax claim against a estate can be counted. This year, as last year, it will be necessary to extend the information deadlines until 1 September, since Parliament has, after all, adopted the Minister for Industry's bill to extend the deadline for submitting company annual reports. Thank you for the floor. We'll be happy to assist you in explaining the technique of this. However, as I said, this is in line with the work launched under the previous government in 2017, where we made a joint agreement to strengthen the public debt recovery.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512145536	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512145539	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the tax minister if he can explain what is called the corrective pool, which is part of the bill here. This is evident several times, so I would like to ask the Minister of Taxation what amounts are included in it and what interest rates it will be remunerated with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512145603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512145603-2	We can answer this in more detail in the Folketing's committee work, because it depends on what situations you are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512145610	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512145611	Yes, and the reason I ask is because I knew that the tax minister does not know the answer to it, and that was to illustrate that the tax minister does not actually know his own bill, and that is not really something I blame the tax minister. Because I myself have been in the position of Minister that I have tabled legislative proposals which I only had a very superficial knowledge of. But I actually find it interesting that we here both the Minister and the Parliament are sitting and making a decision on such a poor basis of understanding as we are doing here, and my instinct tells me that, when we do not understand things better than that, we must say no to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512145650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512145650-2	But the fact that it depends on what kind of a situation you ask does, of course, require a detailed answer, and that is why you get that answer in a parliamentary committee. It is not an unfamiliar procedure and to accuse an entire Parliament of not understanding the bill that you are sitting with here is perhaps just dragging it a little too far. For example, in the contract circle, we have spent time discussing these changes, been deep down in it and all confirmed each other that there was a good basis for making these adjustments so that we could have the effective procedure that we would like to have. So to equate that one cannot get answers to detailed individual questions, which are determined by the situation and context in which they must be seen, and that the whole parliament has not understood this, I do not think one can, because that does not mean one another.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512145736	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512145749	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512145809	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are now considering aims to reduce the administrative burden on business and ensure that the legislation is transparent for companies and advisers. In addition, parts of the bill adapt a number of charges to comply with new EU rules designed to ensure consistency in the rules across EU countries. Firstly, the draft law provides for adjustments to a number of taxes which are EU-harmonised. These adaptations concern a new digital solution to replace the existing paper-based solution for the movement of taxed goods in the EU. This will significantly facilitate the administrative process for companies in the EU that trade in the transport of taxed goods within the EU. Secondly, the draft law allows companies to check through digital access whether the company to which they sell taxable goods may receive goods without tax. Thus, the companies themselves can carry out the checks digitally instead of having to call the Danish Tax Administration and have it confirmed. It is also a relief of an administrative burden that makes it easier for businesses. Thirdly, the draft law provides for a number of adaptations to existing legislation to EU rules. Among other things: specify the rules for exemption from excise duty on alcohol, introduce a new identification number for foreign companies on the basis of the new e-commerce rules, and specify the date of entry of the VAT deduction right. Fourthly, the draft law contains a number of amendments designed to ensure correct taxation. The proposal shall, inter alia, correct: • the fact that rental companies and driving schools have been able to sell their vehicles without paying VAT on profits. In addition, the proposal envisages an amendment to the provision on the exchange of vehicle data so that the tax administration will have better opportunities to levy vehicle-related taxes. It was a little technical review, but it is important technical arrangements that help to make legislation transparent, light administrative burdens for businesses and adapt Danish legislation to new EU rules. The Social Democrats support the proposal and I should like to welcome it from the Enhedslisten and the SF and say that so do the two parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150032	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150034	After all, we have the faded rule today that if there is 3 bars of pressure at 20 degrees in a bottle of wine, there is an additional charge. There is a charge on the air bubbles in wine. I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees that it is a little wasted when there is a tax on wine in advance and, if you are on the side of the Social Democrats, why is it proposed that it should now be extended to more products? This bill says that if there is a champagne bottle-like stopper on a product, air bubbles must also be taxed in those products. If you have a rule that is a little cocky in advance, why should you extend it to have to be cocked on more products? Can't you see for yourself that's a little weird?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150115	Yes, but again we are in a situation where the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party can easily find examples of rules that have been broken. I have to admit, you can do that. I would also like to say and conclude from this bill that here we are dealing with a proposal which, with this legislation, relieves companies of administrative burdens and adapts legislation to new EU rules, and I see this as a clear step forward. Then we will have to take up some of the ground rules that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party talks about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150155	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150155-2	I do not think there are many who think it is a relief of administrative burdens that there are now more who are being charged a jacked charge that there must be a charge on air bubbles in a product if there is more than 3 bar pressure at 20 degrees or if there is a champagne-like stopper on the bottle. One thing is that it may be difficult to abolish the banged taxes, but even to extend them to include more products, we should at least be able to agree not to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150223	To that extent, the rapporteur is right. I would also like to conclude that the bill here provides us with some digital solutions instead of some paper-based outdated solutions, dealing with trade between the EU countries, which, yesterday more than yesterday's and tomorrow's day, meant that we are reducing administrative burdens for companies, and that is a step forward that we should welcome in isolation from this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150258	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150317	Thank you for that, President. This bill is a so-called collective bill. I'm tempted to call it today's bag of mixed candy, maybe we'll even take an advance on Friday candy. I shall refrain from mentioning all the elements of the draft law. Thank you to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, who managed half of my speech. Instead, let me focus a little on the fact that, as a starting point, the Left is positive about the legislative proposal, at least for the part concerned, which is about harmonising EU directives, etc. However, there are a few thistles that we would like to see cleared down the road. In two cases there are increased taxes which essentially make it more expensive to be a Dane. I call it the champagne effect. Overall, the adjustment of VAT rules for rental companies, driving schools, the sale and removal of motor vehicles is estimated to generate additional revenue of plus 10 million. kr. annual after retreat and behavior. After all, it is no secret to the Danish Parliament that in the Left we stand firm on our tax freezes. We also note, however, that the comments on the draft law state that the estimated revenue of 10 million. kr. in the case of rental vehicles, an equivalent amount shall be used. We would very much like to see that made clear before we take our position on the draft law fully into account. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150510	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150511	Thank you for your speech, which I actually very much agreed with. I would like to ask about something that the rapporteur did not mention, and that is the part that concerns the fact that today NATO forces, if they exercise in Denmark, are exempt from taxes on diesel, oil and other things, and that will now be extended to the EU countries having the same exemption. But it is the case that Denmark has a defence reserve, so I would really like to know whether the Left supports that part, and I hope that is not the case, because one should not respect the fact that the Danes have said that one does not want to be part of an EU army. Does the rapporteur not agree that this is a way of sneaking it through the back door when it is said that all EU countries should now, like NATO countries, be granted tax exemptions? I mean, I think it is a slip and a mockery of the Danes who have actually said no to the fact that we should have a common European army.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150558	Thank you for the question. There I may have to disappoint the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and say that that part of the bill is acceptable to the Left as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150610	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150611	I am not so surprised, but of course I am a little too sorry about it, and that is also why I am trying to have the debate now, because it did not appear from the speech. But should we not fundamentally respect when the Danes have said that you do not want a common EU army? Then we should not give tax relief to the armed forces of other countries when they are in Denmark. So, we have clearly said that we want to be a member of NATO and that is why we have the rules for it, but what is the argument that it should also apply to all EU countries? I just think it's a slippery slope you're looking at here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150642	Yes, but we do think it makes very good sense, as a long-standing member of the European Union, to equate them with NATO forces. We have no problem with that in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150655	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Left rapporteur, so we thank Kenneth Mikkelsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512150718	I fully agree with the previous rapporteur that this is a mixed country trade which deals with a great many different things. It is an implementation of some EU directives the circulation directive, the directive on military mobility and the alcohol directive, and then there is something about VAT rules for driving schools and rental, a change to the chocolate tax law and a change to the VAT law. So it is a good bag of mixed candy if you are to stay in the same expression as the Left rapporteur did. There are some changes in the circulation directive which allow for the digitisation of some paper documents, which we think would be quite sensible if we move taxable goods, or rather some taxed goods across the border with other countries, we can do it digitally in the future, and that is quite reasonable. There are many things in the proposal and I will only dive into some things that I think there are problems or something in principle. One of them is this directive on military mobility, which introduces an exemption from the armed forces of the European Union to the extent that it applies to NATO forces. So, we are a NATO member and have chosen to say that in that defence alliance, the countries should not pay taxes, yes, it is probably not exactly cigarettes and spirits here, but perhaps more relevant petrol and diesel when they are in Denmark, and I think that makes good sense. However, the Danes have also clearly stated that we do not want to have a common EU army. And I think it is sneaking it through the back door when you say that now all EU countries should have the corresponding tax reduction. So, I think we should respect the choices made by the Danes and stick to the NATO countries that we are actually supporting our defence alliance up against today. I think it is a slip, that you quietly start sneaking this in, and then at some point you can come and tell the Danes that we must now have a referendum, and now all the rules are set out in such a way that it is quite easy to join this common European army. I think this is really bad, so we in the Danish People's Party cannot support it. Then there is another part I would like to mention here, which I have already mentioned in a brief comment, and that is that we already have a few slightly lax rules on sparkling wine, in other words where there is an additional levy. It makes good sense that there is a tax on alcohol, but it does not make much sense to have an additional levy if there is an excess pressure of at least 3 bar at 20 degrees Funny there is someone who apparently has to sit and measure how much pressure must be in a bottle of wine, compared to whether there should be an additional levy. It is in itself tucked, but now you expand it, in relation to what products it should include, because then you say that if there is just a champagne-like stopper, there must also be an additional 3.35 DKK. per The volume of solution for injection is approximately 1 litre. I really think that we should try to get rid of the wasted taxes together instead of expanding the number of products which should then be included in it. Well, we have to make it easier to understand our rules instead of making it harder. I understand that it does not generate a huge amount of revenue, that is to say more money in the Treasury, but it is wrong that we are now extending a crazy rule. There are a number of other things in the legislative proposal that I do not, in fact, have much to say about, but I can just sum up by saying that there are at least two things that we cannot support in this legislative proposal. So we will probably be asking in committee for a division of the proposal, and we hope that the tax minister is willing to do so because, after all, it is such a collective law where there are wildly many different measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151030	Thank you. There is no brief comment to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kathrine Olldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151051	Thank you very much, President. I shall also be very brief. This is a 335-page bill. I think that might also be a good idea if someone has nothing else to do on a Wednesday here and is watching at home on Parliament's treatment of these drafts you can think about how to go about as a politician when we have so many things we have to deal with. That is, of course, the point of first going to the hearings to see if there are any of them that this bill actually goes beyond, which has been up to the high nails in this context. This has not been done in connection with this draft law, which is why I have also allowed myself not to read the 335 pages, but to settle for the comments on the draft law, which we often settle for. It seems to me that there are no major problems. We support it, of course, if the Danish People's Party would like to split up this bill. Then I think we should do it quite clearly, because we should have found the largest possible majority for these technical changes when we do a spring cleaning of the pulp chamber filled with excise duties, VAT and EU rules, as we do here, when we collect such a clean-up round here. So these are the words of the Radical Left. Of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151200	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151202	I have asked the radical rapporteur many times whether we should not have a simplification of the tax system, and that has been backed up by a great many times. But it just never really gets to come to a time when we have to start making it simpler. Here you do it all the more well, if you have to say so, because now it is even more products that have to have a charge if they either have 3 bars of pressure at 20 degrees or just have a champagne bottle-like stopper on them. So I just want to hear the radical rapporteur: when will we get to the time when we start going the other way and actually make the tax system simpler instead of making it more lax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151234	In the Radical Left we probably do not share the Danish People's Party's fight against taxation or taxation of sparkling wines. Last time I came across that rule, I actually think it was something that, as far as I know, was really EU-related. Maybe we can take a look at that together. We are, of course, still backing up on a simplistic approach and are actually experiencing that we are doing it. It is a long, cool move, but the government often makes legislative proposals that are simplistic, or that are corrections, or that are upgrades or modernisations or explanations of some of the things that are already there, and then there has been a promise that we will have some more such, what to say, organised simplification measures. I have a great expectation that this is still on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151322	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151323	Thank you for your answer, although I was actually a little surprised. Before I heard correctly that you don't think it's a jacked charge that's on the air bubbles in a bottle of wine? In other words, can we defend the fact that there is a tax on alcohol, it is unhealthy, but on air bubbles anyway? Did I really hear right, namely that the radical rapporteur does not think that it is the air bubbles in a bottle of wine that are taxed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151342	The rapporteur refers to the tax called the champagne tax, which, I believe, has also been referred to in the past as a tax on luxury goods, which is, after all, historically conditional from the time when it was also decided to tax coffee and chocolate and other goods which are regarded as luxury. As far as I am concerned, it is not necessarily absurd to impose a special tax on luxury goods on a target group of citizens who really can afford it a little more than others. But to say that it is just the bubbles that define that it is the sparkling it is there that you technically have to lay the cut when you sit down to find out how to define a charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151423	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151439	To put it mildly, it is a quite comprehensive legislative proposal with many 100 pages of amendments, and there is a fairly incalculable number of amendments to the Rules of Procedure alone. Once again, we find ourselves in a situation where we have to take a position on something that we do not have either the competences or the resources to get to the bottom and understand fully. It will be very much a question of trust here, i.e. whether we are confident that we are doing the right thing. I'd say I don't know if we do. But I know so much that it is a bottom-up task to make these changes, because it is an implementation of a directive, and that means that Denmark does not really have a choice. The government has to make these changes. So, on that basis, we will be voting in favour of the bill, but it is with a certain amount of trembling because there are so many changes. And even the professional organisations have given up in relation to really understanding all the changes that are being made and have therefore not produced a very detailed consultation response to us. However, when no one shouts and points out that there are major problems with the legislative proposal and when there is a bottom-up task, in terms of it being a directive, we choose to vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151608	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151611	There are a large number of things that are imposed on us by the European Union, but there are also some things that are not imposed on us by the European Union, and that is because, among other things, we have a defence reserve. So why is it that the Conservative People's Party supports the EU's armed forces being granted an exemption on an equal footing with NATO's armed forces? After all, the Danes have voted 'they have said that we should have a reservation, that we should not be part of the EU army. We have that reservation, so we are not actually required to do it, but you do it anyway, you sneak it in through the back door. Why does the Conservative People's Party support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151644-2	As I understand it, it is of course mutual, that is, that it also applies to the other way, so that Danish forces will then receive similar treatment in the rest of the European Union, and on that basis I see no immediate problems in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151701	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151702	It is true that if you have a common EU army, of course the rules apply to it, but we have chosen to have a reservation about it, so why is it that Denmark should follow the rest of the EU countries, who are really obliged to do so here, while we are not obliged, because the Danes have said that we should have a reservation, that we should support NATO, but that we should not be part of a common EU army? Why can't you just respect the Danes' choices? Why does it have to be quietly sneaked in through the back door? The first step is the tax exemption here, and next time there will probably be something else. Should we not just respect the fact that the Danes have said that we should not be part of a common EU army?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151736	I understood the question for the first time, and the answer is the same: I think that as long as it is a matter of mutuality, so that we do not give to the armed forces of other countries something that we ourselves do not get back for the same countries, I do not see any problems in it. I do not see that this means that we are then on the way to abolish the pre-war relationship. By the way, it might be a very good idea to do so, but that is not what this bill is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151808	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen cleans both before and after! Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151823	My boyfriend would be happy if she saw this whole thing with so many times cleaning. In New Citizens, we do not always feel obliged by things that come from the European Union, and neither do we in this case. There are some tax incentives that can make sense. We would, of course, like to support and support them. There are also some new taxes that make no sense: on cork stoppers on champagne bottles of 3 DKK. And 97 cents and all sorts of other things. This simply does not make sense in our opinion, nor do we have the expectation that the draft law will be divided into all the elements so that we can vote for and against each individual. So I guess we're either gonna end up voting against or we're gonna vote yellow for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151907	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the new citizen. Then we've reached the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512151919	Thank you very much for that and thank you very much for receiving the bill. I'm gonna be the first to admit that it's a proper mop boy, popularly said, like we have here. As is often the case in the field of taxation, it is both complicated and sometimes quite comprehensive legislative proposals that we are dealing with here, but we do manage, among other things. in committee work to find each other and ensure that those who have questions are of course also given answers to them. I would like to begin by saying that I hope that this time too. Thank you, however, for what I consider to be basically very broad support for the legislative proposal, which is basically about reducing administrative burdens for business and which will ensure that the legislation is as transparent and precise as possible for the companies and advisers who have to apply the legislation in practice. The elements of the draft law that either clarify or also ensure more reasonable rules in the area of VAT and taxation are, of course, the focal point of this draft law. The most important part of the legislative proposal is adjustments to a number of taxes that are EU-harmonised. The adjustments are modernising, among other things: the processes to be used by companies when dealing with goods subject to taxes within the EU. For example: The current paper solution is now being replaced by a digital solution in the IT system that monitors the movement of goods in the EU. There is no doubt that this will ease the administrative burden on businesses. The proposal also makes it easier for firms to verify whether the undertaking selling taxable goods may actually receive goods free of charge. Today it is so that companies hold on! So one can safely say that this is a clear relief for companies that they can now carry out that control themselves through digital access. It may well be that the two proposals I have just mentioned do not immediately sound very much, but that actually means a great deal in the real world. Last week, I and Mrs Kathrine Ollydag, the radical rapporteur in this Chamber today, were on company visits, where one of the companies just highlighted the trouble with this paper-based solution that exists today and the difficulty of getting answers and confirmation of the tax status of a company. I just think it is nice to be reminded that what we are adopting in this Chamber and hopefully being able to secure broad support for in the light of today's debate is something that will not only work in reality, but also those companies that today are struggling to get goods across the border and help us to strengthen both business and jobs. In addition, the draft law contains a number of initiatives that ensure that we have adapted Danish legislation to EU law. This concerns, among other things: specifying the duty-free allowances for alcohol, specifying the date of entry into force of the right to deduct VAT and introducing a new identification number for foreign companies. The latter will be used when the new e-commerce rules come into force here on 1 June of this year. In addition, the draft law contains a number of elements to ensure correct taxation. For example, as has also been mentioned, rental companies and driving schools have been able to sell vehicles without paying VAT on their profits. That has not been the intention, and we are now correcting that. In future, such companies, like all other companies, will have to pay VAT on their profits. It's only fair and fair. In addition, it is proposed to amend a provision on the exchange of vehicle information to ensure better possibilities for charging correct vehicle-related charges. It was, if you could say it a little popular, the highlights I had chosen to highlight, here in the bill. It's a good round. Thank you for receiving it. We are happy to delve into it in committee, but the main aim of the draft law is therefore a whole series of relaxations which benefit Danish industry and those parts of Danish business that have trade within the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152406	Thank you. And there is a brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152409	I would actually just like to ask the tax minister, with a simple question, why there should now be an additional 3 kroner. and 35 cents on a bottle of non-alcoholic children's champagne, as there will be, because there is such a champagne-like thing at the top that like keeps the pressure inside the bottle. So, what's the logic of a bottle of children's champagne now having to be taxed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152434	It is because it is an EU-regulated area and it has not been the case before that there have been taxes on what Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær asks about here. There will now be, because it is covered by the EU regulation that we are implementing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152447	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152448	But does the Minister honestly think that it makes sense that it is the air bubbles in a bottle of children's champagne that should now be taxed? Well, typically we put a tax on something where it has to be behavior-regulating, because people need less of it. That is why it makes sense for there to be levies on, for example, the environment. alcohol. It is unhealthy; we need people to drink less of it. But why are the air bubbles in a bottle of children's champagne the one that needs to be taxed? Well, is that some of what we want people to have less of? Should there be fewer air bubbles in champagne?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152515	I don't have to deal with that. I don't drink very much champagne and have never tried to drink children's champagne. However, I assume that the Folketing, when it was decided to endorse this directive, thought it was a good idea. And that's why it's being implemented in this hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152527	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152543	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152611	This bill proposes to make it possible to take the citizenship of persons who have committed certain forms of serious gang crime which seriously harm the vital interests of Denmark. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that we should, as far as possible, take citizenship from criminals who have committed serious crime. That is why we have made it possible to take the citizenship of people who have been travelling to Syria to fight for the Islamic State. Like IS terrorists, some hard-boiled gang criminals also pose a serious threat to Denmark's security. We regularly hear about shootings and stabbings in Copenhagen, Aarhus, Odense and elsewhere in Denmark. Gang criminals have even thrown hand grenades at each other when they have dried up in gang conflicts. Furthermore, there have been examples of innocent citizens being shot in the crossfire between rival gangs' gunfights. Of course, the prerequisite for the disqualification of nationality is the dual nationality of the persons concerned and, moreover, no person will be deprived of their nationality if it is in any way contrary to our international obligations. It is a very special privilege to be a Danish citizen, and that is why we think it is reasonable that it should be possible to take the citizenship of persons who pose a serious threat to Denmark's security. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152730	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152731	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur could define more precisely which types of crime pose a threat to the vital interests of the state in relation to gang crimes, because this is, of course, just as a prerequisite for the removal of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152755-2	Yeah, it can be different things. After all, we can look to our neighbouring Sweden, where there have been a few areas where gang members search people to get in and where the police can't be. We have seen even worse examples in France, and we also know that there are hardcore gang criminals here who sit in special residential areas; it is not as bad as in Sweden and France, but we have seen developments in recent years that are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152814	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152815	There is no doubt that serious crimes are committed in connection with gang crimes. But the definition of when this is a threat to the vital interests of the state is quite crucial, because it is, like it is the one that can define when we can talk about depriving citizenship, even in relation to the conventions. So there is no lack of a more precise definition of when we can be in this situation before such a bill can be adopted here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152845	In other words, if you control an entire residential area, as we have seen in Sweden, and as we have seen in France, or if you throw hand grenades or shoot at random, it is against the vital interests of the state, and then it must be up to a specific ruling what is to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152856	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512152919	Thank you for that, President. The Left can support this bill. It reminds me of a motion for a resolution tabled by the Left itself earlier in this Chamber, but unfortunately there was no majority in favour of it at the time when the Socialists and thus the government chose to vote against it. You can then take that down in two ways. Parties can be mocked for copying our policy, or one can rejoice, and in the Left we are choosing the last solution, because we welcome the fact that the Socialists in this area have become wiser. I would also like to say directly to the Minister that we would like to make ourselves available with a lot of other ideas that we have, which must be of complete free use if the Minister wishes to put forward the policy of the Left as a legislative proposal. The reason we made this proposal at the time, and we have fought hard to get it through, is that unfortunately we are experiencing massive challenges with gang crime, and unfortunately we are also experiencing challenges with foreign gang criminals who have such harassing and criminal behaviour that it creates massive insecurity in a large number of Danish cities. It cannot be the case that, as a criminal foreigner with dual citizenship, you can hide behind the Danish passport when you commit quite serious crime. We must therefore ensure that, in the case of these gang members, whose criminal behaviour is so criminal and so off the scale in relation to ordinary behaviour, we can hardly say the thoughts that fall into one's mind, from the speaking chair of the Folketing, take Danish citizenship away from them, so that we can also have them expelled from Denmark. We would really like it to be done in a large number of other areas and not just in gang crime, in other words that all crime which is detrimental to the vital interests of the state means that people with dual citizenship can lose their Danish citizenship. It was a demand by the Left in the negotiations on citizenship that have just been concluded and, fortunately, we obtained the support of the other parties that the government is now obliged to go down that path and check if that is possible. And if it is possible, the parties have also committed themselves to supporting such a bill. So, of course, we can support this proposal, and we are also looking forward to further work on this track. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512153134	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512153136	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I would like to start by stating that it is not the case that you can hide behind the Danish passport if you commit crime, because you are, as everyone does, tried, convicted and punished, just like everyone else. The question here is, of course, to what extent it should lead to the loss of citizenship, and I should just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that, after all, we are moving into some kind of legal limbo, after all, everything else equal and unnoticed, because it may be difficult to define when a crime can be described as a threat to the vital interests of the state. That is not clearly stated in the law, and that is why there is not, of course, the predictability normally laid down in the law in terms of the penalties that result from an offence. Does the rapporteur not think that there can, after all, be some concern about this? It is also raised in some of the consultation responses.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512153238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512153239	No, we in the Left have no reservations about taking a harder course against gang criminals. The whole point here is, of course, that in some of these environments there are so hard-boiled criminals that even a prison sentence does not deter them from committing their criminal acts, but what we know they fear is whether they can be sent out of the country that they, in parentheses, spend all their time fighting, that is, everything we stand for. If they can be sent out of Denmark, it is something they take seriously, and we cannot send them out of Denmark if they have a Danish passport. Therefore, it is a good idea to go in to look at the hardcore gang criminals who have dual citizenship and say that if we can deprive them of their Danish citizenship, then we also have an opportunity to send them out of the country. That is something they fear, and we want to do everything we can to put an end to hardcore gang crime, which is why we have no doubts about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512153330	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512153331	Clearly, it is also a form of fighting crime to take all criminals and start sending them out of the country as they commit crime, but I am not sure that it will solve the problem. However, what I am actually asking is the legal limbo that is being moved into when it is unclear what crime will trigger what sanction. It is, of course, unclear in this draft law when it is contrary to the vital interests of the state, and there are some contractual obligations in relation to the fact that this is the condition for depriving citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512153359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512153401	But I don't think it's unclear. However, what is quite clear is that it is a court that ultimately judges it. That is how it is in the Danish legal system, and we think that is a good and sensible principle. We basically think it is quite fair to say that if you commit crime of such a nature that it is to the detriment of Denmark's vital interests, it must also be possible that we go in and say that if you do so, while you have dual citizenship, we are depriving you of Danish citizenship, so we also have an opportunity to send you out of Denmark. We think that is sensible. We think it takes good care of Denmark, and we want to do much more of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512153436	Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin. There are no more brief comments, so the next rapporteur after the rapporteur from the Left is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512153453	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party we support the bill here. We have proposed many times that a system of conditional citizenship should be introduced. And that would mean that if you committed crime for the first 15 years after you had been granted citizenship, you would have it taken away again. And you could say that this law is somehow going a little further towards conditional citizenship. Because these are people who have been granted citizenship and who will therefore be able to have it removed in the event of serious gang crimes. We think this is sensible, but we would like to see the system of depriving one of one's citizenship if one commits crime extended so that all those who commit crime of a certain degree of severity, after they have been granted citizenship, would be deprived of their Danish nationality. And when we say all of us, we all mean those who risk being stateless. Because it sounds very good when both the Social Democrats and the Liberals say that we are concerned about this very strict and very harsh course towards criminals and that they should certainly not then be allowed to retain their Danish citizenship. But the vast majority probably do not have dual citizenship. It's only those who have dual citizenship that this is going to hit. So that is where we believe that it is possible to rectify it by saying: 'Well, it must also be those who have only one citizenship who should have it taken away'. It is not up to international conventions to decide who has Danish citizenship. In fact, it is up to us here in Denmark in the Danish democracy to decide. So we would like to see people who are at risk of being stateless, i.e. people who have only one citizenship. Then we wonder whether we should not continue with this provision that gang crime is something special, so that people who are on the gang register cannot obtain citizenship at all. And I would like to ask the Minister that when he comes to the floor, whether that is already the case. After all, the new agreement provides that you cannot obtain citizenship if you have a suspended sentence. But can you really get citizenship if you're on the gang register? I don't think it's everyone who's convicted and who's in there who's related to gangs and gang crimes. Perhaps it was also a place to go further, so as simply to prevent these people who are associated with some kind of gang crime from getting citizenship at all. In other words, in the view of the Danish People's Party, this bill is a small step along the road towards what we want and which is conditional citizenship and condemnation of citizenship for all those who commit serious crime, including people who risk being stateless. But a small step is, of course, better than no step. That is why we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512153823	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Thank you to Mrs Krarup. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Susan Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512153843	Thank you for the floor. The Radical Left does not support the proposal for the withdrawal of citizenship from serious gang crimes. There are two points: firstly, the Convention, and secondly, the possible risk of compensation. The Radical Left recalls that until now it has been politically thought that it would not be possible to withdraw citizenship. Departure can only take place through terrorism, and conventional crime is not a threat to the security of the state. Nor will it be possible legally to equate ordinary crime with terrorism, since the Convention on Civil Liberties lays down exhaustively the situations in which the law of a State may contain rules on the forfeiture of nationality. As it says: Dismantling can only be considered in the case of a course of action which seriously harms the vital interests of a state. So common crime doesn't shake the security of the state. As it appears, persons convicted of serious gang crimes must be able to be denied their Danish right of birth by judgment unless they become stateless. That will then be, we must understand, in cases where serious gang crimes are considered to be seriously detrimental to Denmark's vital interests. However, since serious gang crimes are not conventionally regarded as treason, the area of the government's bill will be infinitely small. In other words, the proposal is a little like saying that if hooliganism is terrorism, then citizenship can be deprived. The government can therefore knit such a rule together, but it will never lead to a disqualification of citizenship in the Danish courts. With regard to the consideration of compensation, there is the fact that it makes very poor sense for the Radical Left to implement legislation which means that we will subsequently lose cases before the Court of Human Rights. The draft law may therefore mean that the State, i.e. All of us taxpayers end up having to pay compensation to gang criminals. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512154101	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512154127	Thank you for that, President. There are a lot of things on which the Government and the Enhedslist disagree; fortunately there is also a lot on which we agree. But politically speaking, we must almost be seen as counterpoles of government when it comes to citizenship. The government consistently refers to Danish citizenship as a gift and something to be earned. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that it is a right that we should have much easier to achieve than we do today. On the whole, we do not believe that people should be deprived of citizenship either. Crime must be punished, punishment must be served, and it must stop here too. However, the government believes that citizenship is the so-called gift that for a great many people is almost impossible to achieve, must be very easy for the state to deprive people. And one thing is, of course, if the government just thought it was so-called gifts that should be withdrawn, but that is not what this bill is about. Because, as the Minister points out in the bill, the law applies equally to everyone, and this means that even people born as Danish nationals in Denmark and never lived elsewhere can be deprived of their citizenship if they have a foreign parent who did not foresee this problem at the birth of the child. However, the government considers this to be quite reasonable, we certainly do not do so in the Enhedslisten. This bill comes only six months after the government finally made new crimes so serious that the state should not just allow the court to deprive these people of their citizenship. And not only administrative, but also on the assumption that they have another citizenship or are able to obtain one, because confirmation of this is obviously not necessary. It should be thought that when the government now considers citizenship to be this unique gift, it also took it very seriously when legislation in this area is drafted. All the evidence suggests that you are making a lot of effort and spending time tightening up the possibility of acquiring citizenship. It really needs to be thought through before you are sure that you will get as few people as possible to acquire citizenship. But when it comes to the rules on the withdrawal of citizenship, one is so busy getting it implemented that it is not easy to discover what is happening. At least that's what happened six months ago. The amount of consultation answers to this draft law, or perhaps more specifically the lack of the same text, is a clear indication that the deadline of less than 7 days is far too short for such an intrusive proposal, and is yet another proof that this too has been rushed through. That's not fair. I think it is undemocratic and it is not good enough either. It is a slippery path for us to remove the citizenship of so-called ordinary criminal offences. We already have a punishment on these violations if they have been committed as part of a gang conflict. But when it is so unclear what it is really necessary to do before you are covered by this law, then I think there is something basically wrong. There are already reservations about judging people according to section 81a of the Penal Code, because unlike in the past, most people do not run around with biker vests today, and it can therefore be difficult to determine whether the person is in a gang at all. And that gang crime is a risk of serious damage to Denmark's vital interests, we simply do not agree in the Enhedslisten. Gang crime is serious, but as a country, we can handle those thugs... we have shown that several times. I do not think that at any time we as a nation have had our vital interests threatened by a gang, and then it simply does not make sense to add Article 81a to the law. With such a vague scope, in practice, we leave the interpretation of Denmark's vital interests to the prosecution, which must then invent the deep plate if they are to convince a judge of this. I know what many people in here think about foreigners, and we do not have to go through what differences we have there. But with this bill, we are talking about the fact that Jens and Hans are also deprived of their citizenship if they are part of a gang, even though they were born here, have lived here and possibly been abandoned by us as a community, just because the father they have not seen since they were 2 years old happened to pass on their American citizenship to them. It's out of proportion, and this is a serious slippery slope. The Enhedslisten cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512154554	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party
ParlaMint-DK_20210512154619	Thank you, President. I'll be brief. When it is a good bill, there is no reason to stand and use a lot of words on it if you basically just back up. We think it is a fine proposal, not least because it is also inspired by the proposals of the Left on the same subject, which Conservatives naturally supported. Today, there are two general paragraphs, according to which people can be deprived of their Danish citizenship. That is, for example, the case. for treason and terror. Those paragraphs include: was useful in taking Danish citizenship from some of those who have turned their backs on Denmark to join the Islamic State. Now there is a third paragraph, that of the article on violent gang crime, which is referred to here, which is a serious threat to the interests of the country. Of course, Conservatives support that. And I'll say hello from New Citizens, and they will.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512154711	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you, Mr President. Marcus Knuth. We are now through the ranks of the rapporteurs who are present in the Chamber, so that is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512154734	Thank you, Mr President, and thank the rapporteurs for the debate on the legislative proposal. As the rules are today, you can be denied your Danish citizenship by judgment if you are convicted of a violation of Chapter 12 of the Criminal Code. This is the chapter on crimes against the State's independence and security... or Chapter 13 of the Criminal Code, which deals with crimes against the Constitution and the Supreme State authorities, terrorism, etc., unless you become a stateless person. In addition, in the autumn of 2019 the government took the initiative for a change of law that has made it possible to administratively deprive Danish citizenship of persons who have taken a course of action that seriously harms Denmark's vital interests if it does not lead to statelessness. So far, 11 persons have been deprived of their nationality administratively. None of them have subsequently entered Denmark, according to my information. The government wants gang members participating in gang conflicts to be able to disclaim citizenship when it can be realized within the framework of Denmark's international obligations, and that is why the government is now proposing to introduce the possibility that, in the case of certain serious gang crimes which seriously harm the vital interests of the state, it may lead to the disqualification of Danish citizenship by judgment, unless the person thereby becomes stateless. It is generally considered that conflicts between groups of criminals can challenge and call into question the monopoly of power, which is a central part of the powers of state power, and the fundamental structure and order of society. In assessing whether a disclaimer can be made in connection with a gang crime conviction, there will be, among other things: could be emphasized by the number of actions and their gravity. As an example, the comments to the bill mention that if more people work together, for example. to maintain control of an area of violence, unlawful coercion, threats or the like, a single situation could be sufficient to prevent such a situation. However, it will always be up to the courts to determine in concrete terms whether there will be such a course of action, to the serious detriment of the vital interests of the State. In addition, the courts will have to make a concrete and individual assessment of the significance of the refusal for the person concerned in comparison with the gravity of the course of action. I am, of course, pleased to note that a majority in the Folketing will support the bill, and I am now looking forward to the further examination of the bill here in the Folketing and, of course, as always, are available for questions both in this Chamber and in the subsequent committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155020	This gave rise to a few brief comments, first from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155022	I would actually like to ask whether gang criminals with a single nationality are less dangerous than gang criminals with dual nationality, and I know what the Minister is going to say about that. He will reply that they are probably equally dangerous, but that the sacred international conventions must be respected so that we cannot send them out. So I would like to ask you something else that I also asked about when I stood on the platform, although I know that this does not fall entirely within the scope of the legislative proposal here. Can you really, if you are on the gang register, obtain Danish citizenship, or will you fall into the category of people who are suspected and who are therefore monitored and who, therefore, may not be able to come up with a legislative proposal at all? Are you going to be in that category, or are you actually going to be able, when you are on the gang register, to obtain citizenship which we are then in danger of having to renounce?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155126	After all, the register of gangs is a tool that the police have, and there can be in the gang register both people who have been convicted and people who have not been convicted, and I think it is important that the police have that tool and that it is not only reduced to people who have been convicted. The people who will be covered by the rules we have on the granting of citizenship, and who therefore cannot come up with a legislative proposal unless they are granted a derogation from the Parliament's Committee on the Rights of the Child, are the ones who have been convicted. So you can stand on the gang register and get citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155200	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155201	But that is one of the things that might perhaps be considered in the future, i.e. whether it really should be possible for someone to be in a category where the police have a strong suspicion that they are doing something bad and get citizenship, i.e. whether such people should be able to obtain Danish citizenship at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155231	Of course, the Danish People's Party can consider that. I have to admit, I'm on a little thin ice here, because I don't know that much about how the gang register is screwed up either. All I know is that it is an important tool for the police, and I would very much not like us to make decisions in the field of foreigners which made that tool less effective. So I guess it's gonna be a little wool in my mouth response here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155253	Thank you. And then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155257	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. Now the Minister himself mentioned the fact that this is the case today, in relation to the citizenship convention, that citizenship can only be withdrawn if there is a threat to the vital interests of the State, and this has normally been interpreted as being precisely Chapter 12 and Chapter 13, i.e. treason and terrorism. And with this proposal, we then agree that other forms of crime can also be regarded as that, and after all, there is another type of crime when we speak treason or terrorism. After all, we in this House have also debated other forms of crime in the past, which could mean that citizens could be deprived of citizenship. In other words, can the Minister not be concerned that we are now moving down a path, as I think the rapporteur of the Left also called it, where we are starting this practice, and that there may be other forms of crime, which one will also begin to consider as a threat to the vital interests of the state, and thus also trigger a withdrawal of citizenship, which can actually be contrary to the conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155407	In fact, I think that the key point here is that crime, which seriously harms the vital interests of the state, should be able to lead, by judgment, to the disqualification of citizenship unless people become stateless. In the past, it has been reduced to dealing only with these two specific chapters of the criminal code, chapters 12 and 13, and what we are now proposing in this bill is that we write in the law on Danish citizenship, section 8 paragraph 8. 1 (b) insert after Chapters 12 and 13 of the Penal Code: or which incurs punishment under Section 81 (a) of the Penal Code. And that's the one about gang crime. In principle, there could also be other paragraphs here, if otherwise it can be implemented within all legal frameworks. But in fact it is some of the things I think it is worth examining, as well as part of the agreement that has been made on citizenship, that is to say to examine whether further paragraphs can be added here. Because I think the key point must be that the courts have the possibility that if they consider that there is something that is a danger to the vital interests of the state, it should lead to disqualification.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155513	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155513-2	But we are moving into a kind of legal limbo when we start doing this, because it is an unclear interpretation of when gang crime can be considered to be contrary to the vital interests of the state. In spite of everything, it is more clear in relation to terrorism and treason, but when we talk about gang crime, there will be a very, very large margin of interpretation, both for the prosecution authority and for the courts, and thus it will also be rather unclear what kind of sanction it is that you will be able to expect if you violate the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155546	I do not quite know whether I agree that it would appear so clear if you read chapters 12 and 13, which exactly fall within the scope of those provisions, i.e. crimes against the independence and security of the state, crimes against the Constitution and the supreme state authorities, terrorism, etc. I do not really think the interesting thing is exactly which clauses of the criminal code we are talking about, I think the central point is whether it seriously harms the vital interests of the state, which is a translation of a provision of an international convention that we have signed up to. I really think that is what should be at the heart, and not which clause of the criminal code is then judged after.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155625	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susan Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155631	Thank you. I would like to hear the Minister's comments on the fact that the Association for Legal Affairs has given a hearing in which they state that they believe that the text of the law does not support the wish to comply with the convention that it is only in the case of terrorism and the like that nationality may be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155701	I do not think that there are any violations of any conventions in the draft law that has been put forward here. Nor do I see it as being possible to deny citizenship only when it comes to terrorism. The central point is here, and it is a bit in the wake of the previous discussion, whether there has been a course of action that seriously harms the vital interests of the state, and that is ultimately something that the courts must decide. That's what's at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155728	Mrs. Susan Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155729	Thank you for the floor. What does the Minister think of the fact that the Convention actually says that ordinary crime is not covered by the concept of terrorism and serious attacks on state security?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155750	I think it is sensible that so-called ordinary crime should not be included. After all, there is the constant discussion about the Convention, and I think that the convention we are talking about here is a good one, and I am glad that Denmark has endorsed it. So it's not a question of how gross a character crime has. A mass rape can of course be extremely serious, but it cannot in itself be regarded as a serious damage to the vital interests of the state. So I think the key point is that we are holding onto it: it is the state we want to protect, and it can then challenge gang crime. It is not a matter of the gravity of the crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155833	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we'll make a little presidency change.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155916	The debate is open. First, we give the floor to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512155927	First of all, many thanks to the author of the motion for a resolution for raising an important debate, I think, on the foreign purchase of agricultural land in Denmark. I can understand the concerns of the authors of the motion, and I intend to follow the subject very closely. However, the proposal has various elements which make it impossible for the government to support the proposal as it stands. I would like to start with the issue of foreign ownership. Protection of nature, the environment and the climate are essential when we regulate agriculture. That is why we are engaged in the important negotiations on the greening of agriculture. But the rules that protect nature, the environment and the climate apply regardless of nationality and whether the owner is a person or a company. Approx. 5,000 trades in agricultural land in Denmark. We can see that approx. 21⁄2%. or 66.500 ha of the total Danish agricultural area of 2.6 million. ha have foreign owners. So it is a relatively limited amount that now appears. However, we are faced with a very important generational change in which there is likely to be greater replacement of owners. So even though foreign purchases today have a relatively limited volume, the government will follow this development closely and we will regularly have updated analyses of the volume of foreign labour. It is worth keeping an eye on, so to speak. The government will now also set up a working group. This is a new approach that we are taking now, with the participation of relevant ministries, and this working group must describe the applicable rules and framework for agricultural property trading, and the working group must also have a special focus on the purchase of agricultural land by persons or companies from outside the European Union. When it is this thing about outside the EU, it is because we need to be aware that when it is within the EU, we cannot discriminate. We might be able to do that. I'm not saying we do it when it comes to people or companies outside the EU. But with this working group, we will know our options for action within national and international rules. If foreign acquisition of Danish agricultural land were to speed up to a worrying extent you could imagine that there were suddenly very large foreign capital funds and countries, you think you might not want to buy large parts of it, then at least it is worth having a status on it. I and the government expect to be able to send a report from the working group to the Danish Parliament's Committee on the Environment and Food in the autumn of 2021. In addition, the proposal envisages reintroducing the requirement for a Danish farmer to have control. A broad majority in the Folketing decided in 2014 to abolish this rule in order to make it easier for companies, Danish and foreign, to buy agricultural properties. The aim was to make it easier to raise investment capital for agriculture. If we reinstate the old rules proposed by the proposal, it will probably have a negative impact on the agricultural economy, and we do not need that on the eve of a comprehensive green transition that actually requires new investment. So here we are also a little sceptical about the proposal, although we can understand what kind of ideas are behind it. Finally, re-establishing the rules would probably run counter to important EU principles. Thus, a judgment of the European Court of Justice in 2007 states that the Danish rules on the personal residence of agricultural property at the time were contrary to the principle of the free movement of capital. The rules were therefore changed to an impersonal residence obligation, which applies regardless of nationality and ownership. And the European Court of Justice reaffirmed this last year when Latvia was required to abolish language requirements and residence requirements in Latvia in order to purchase agricultural land. Finally, the proposer wants a ceiling to be set on the amount of land that a single person or company may own. A proposal is being put forward for 375 hectares as an upper limit on what can be owned. There have been rules in the past which limited the size of agriculture, and such rules can in principle be introduced if that is what you want. However, it will immediately only apply in the future, unless the ceiling is forced through with expropriative intervention, and both of these things are therefore both about the ceiling and about the expropriative intervention.I and the government believe that we should be very careful about this, and therefore I cannot support this element. A farmer must be able to have the area that makes sense to him or her. The government cannot therefore support the resolution as it stands here, but we agree with the proposer so far that it is important to focus on foreign acquisitions, and it is also important to act on it, and that is why we are calling for a working group to follow this closely, which will come forward with a status in the autumn. Firstly, we are providing for regular updates of analyses of the extent of foreign ownership, and secondly, we are setting up this working group to identify possible possibilities for limiting acquisitions, including from outside the European Union. As far as nature, environment and climate are concerned, we are covered by applicable rules. Whatever nationality you have, these things have to be taken care of, and you have to live up to the rules. And, as I mentioned, we are currently debating important framework conditions for agriculture, which also include nature, the environment and the climate. In those words, then, we are going to reject the proposal, but we are going to continue working on the specific proposals I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512160630	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512160633	Thank you for your speech and thank you for taking this seriously. The minister refers to the fact that there are 21⁄2%. of the Danish agricultural land which has been sold. But these are numbers for 2018. Will the Minister admit that the Minister has no idea how much of our agricultural land has been sold? That was a period of 3 years from 2015-2018, when 21⁄2% were sold. From 2018 to today, no one knows what has been sold, who it has been sold to, how many have invested, and how much land we have already got rid of. Will the Minister admit that the Minister has no idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512160714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512160715	What I have told you in my speech here is that it is these 21⁄2% that are in foreign hands and, as I understand it, that is the way it is at this time. It may be that the figures are from 2018, but I must have confirmed that. What is important here is that we admit to the proposer that we really want some more knowledge about this. We also think it is important to follow it more closely, and that is not least because we can see that there is a relatively high average age for farmers in Denmark 56 years I think it is. This means that over the next 10 years there will probably be a great many generations of changes, and if this happens at the same time as there are other factors that affect prices, then we can have a situation where there might be Chinese capital funds that might be or others and buy huge land. We must, of course, be aware of this. We have to follow it closely, and that's why we're doing this working group to get a look at this way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512160818	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512160819	Well, this may have already happened. A massive investment is being made at the moment. The figure mentioned by the Minister is from 2018. That was where it was 21⁄2%, and then perhaps I understand more that the Minister is so calm. Today it can be 5 per cent.; it can also be 10%. It is often the slowest with schemes at first. We don't know. But then perhaps I understand why the Minister is so calm and just setting up a working group. I introduced this to the PM at Question Time yesterday. She said that it was necessary immediately to bring it into the agricultural negotiations and to resolve it. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512160853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512160854	After all, it is free to bring it up in the agricultural negotiations. After all, we have the approach that all proposals are welcome in the sense of the word. We're gonna start a wide-ranging debate, and Mr. Simpson... Torsten Gejl's own party, the alternative, is represented in the negotiations in a skillful and committed manner, and it is welcome to bring it up. Now we have taken the step of saying: we are, in fact, inspired by this proposal to create a working group, and that is to get some more up-to-date knowledge, and it responds precisely to the wish that Mr. Torsten Gejl and the Alternative have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512160926	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512160929	It is true that it is not a completely updated figure, and that is why the latest trends are not included in the figures, and I am also concerned about what we can face. And if we get into a period of further falling land prices, and we could get into that with falling pig prices and so on, there will be some who sit out in the world looking at where you can place your capital, and so there are some who will place them in land without having an interest in securing our groundwater, our biodiversity, etc. So I totally understand that this is a problem. It is good that the Minister wants to set up a working group, but could we not also start looking at what the solutions should be? Because if you came to the conclusion that there is a problem, what would be the solution? There I would like to hear from the Minister whether such government land-use funds could buy up land and then perhaps sell it further or convert it to nature could be part of the solution when this working group is to come up with an explanation of the size of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512161027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512161028	Again, I would like to thank you for one, I think, important question in this area. It tells us how important it is that we get some more knowledge in the field, which is why it's good that we do this working group. So it is at least a step in the right direction, and we can then put the leg of a fly on it. There may be different things that affect prices, and therefore you may also risk suddenly taking over some land, including from foreign capital funds. What is important here, however, is that rules, in terms of nature, environment, drinking water, etc., apply regardless of who owns the land. So even if there were to be a foreign capital fund and buy very large areas, Danish legislation applies • it is impossible to get around that as it is. There may be other areas where you are a little sceptical that there are some that have to own huge areas, and that is why we are looking into it. And I have taken note of the fact that the question of agricultural funds has been raised in the context of the agricultural negotiations, and that is something we must take up and reverse in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512161138	Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512161139	When you look at the inventory of these foreign ownerships, there's actually a part of them that's actually what fills the most European citizens who have settled on farmland in Denmark and operate agriculture, and I don't think that's so bad. There can be, for example, when they can. in the Netherlands reduces in their animal production, in fact well be Dutch farmers who look for where one can then be a farmer, and it could be Denmark. What makes me most concerned is those foreign companies that can be anything; for example, they can be Chinese constructions etc. I think that is what we need to focus our attention on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512161217	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512161218	Well, I kind of agree with Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen in it, and there is also the fact that when it is EU countries like the Netherlands, there is free competition, and then we cannot set any barriers against it. And, by the way, when we talk about our Dutch friends, there is a more 500-year-old tradition of farming in Denmark. I myself took part in an anniversary with the Dutch Minister, where we celebrated that it was 500 years ago that the first Dutch farmers began farming the land on Amager. So there is a long tradition for that. But it is true that this is probably true, for example. is capital from China, which needs to be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512161300	There are no further brief comments, and we thank the Minister. The next speaker is Mr. Anders Kronborg from the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512161326	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to start by thanking the Alternative for raising a very relevant debate on foreign purchases of Danish agricultural land. As has also been identified by the technical reviews in the context of the agricultural negotiations, the average age of a Danish farmer is 56 years, and by 2030 the average age will be well over 60 years if developments do not change. This means that over a number of years we have to look into the fact that there is also a great need for generational change in agriculture. Despite the high average age among farmers, generational change is slow. At the same time, we know that foreign ownership today amounts to approximately 2.5%. of the agricultural area. Although this is not a great deal, I know that this is a debate which is of great concern to many people. Especially in the light of the generational change that we are facing. The proposers suggest that a trained Danish farmer should have codecision or provision on a farm owned by, for example, a foreign capital fund and that a ceiling should be set on how much land a single person or a single company may own. The reason is that it is feared that foreign shareholders will not comply with applicable rules on nature, drinking water, food and climate. The key question can therefore also be summarized together as to whether foreign fund owners can override Danish rules that protect the environment, nature, drinking water, climate and, for that matter, biodiversity. Here is the answer a resounding no. Everyone, both Danish farmers and foreign capital funds, must comply with the rules in force in Denmark at all times. The protection of the environment, nature and drinking water must not therefore depend on whether the owner of the land is a young Danish farmer or a foreign fund. We Socialists cannot support the proposal immediately, but I would like to say in this context that I recognise that this is a very important, very relevant debate and also a relevant issue. This is a relevant question, because we also need to have a talk with each other about how to make change of ownership in agriculture, and it is therefore worth having an end to what is up and down and what challenges may be in relation to the acquisition of Danish agricultural land by foreign capital funds. We, as Social Democrats, are open to this, and that is why we also welcome the Minister's proposal that a working group be set up to look at the applicable rules for the purchase of land by persons and companies from outside the European Union. It is in my optics timely care that we get such a working group started, because then we will be at the forefront if foreign purchases of Danish agricultural land suddenly take too much speed, if that is the case. However, I do not think we should underestimate how important it is in the context of the ongoing agricultural negotiations that we have a very high focus on the generational change in relation to agriculture and, above all, a very special focus on the high average age that the next few years will speed up and address in agriculture. Against this background, therefore, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution, but we are aware of the challenges of generational change in agriculture and foreign acquisition of agricultural land, and we think it is good that the government is acting on this and setting up a working group. We are currently in agricultural negotiations and I am counting on all parties to continue to sit at the table, and it is our intention, of course, to have a broad agreement on agriculture. So, of course, I also hope that the whole debate on the generational shift will be filled in these negotiations. Of course, we should not move the negotiating room into the Parliamentary Chamber, but I would just like to say that this is a focus we must have. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512161822	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512161826	Thank you. And thank you for your speech, and thank you for recognising the problem. Well, we're really selling our country, and we're never gonna get it back. We have completely opened the way for people to buy as much of our agriculture as they will also large capital funds looking for investments now that they will not pay negative interest rates. So it's de facto out of control. I do not care whether we should use one or the other or the third tool, but can the rapporteur not see that, as things stand now, we are losing our agriculture? At the moment, it may be 3, 4, 5 per cent. of the agriculture that is in Denmark and that we are debating, which is no longer ours at all. And if the rapporteur does not also see that when it is not Danish, when a capital investor sits on the other side of the earth and has to make a return on capital, some of the culture disappears by worrying about one's agriculture, which disappears some of the interest in taking care of groundwater, to take care of nature, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512161925	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512161926	I fully acknowledge that Danish agriculture, Danish farmers help to create life, leeches, jobs, active participation in society, so we have a Denmark that is connected, a Denmark that is in balance. That is also why, in relation to the agricultural initiative put forward by the Socialist Government, we want a development rather than dismantling agriculture. What I think is very central and very important, sir. Torsten Gejl, is that when we have to make decisions in this Parliament, we should not make decisions based on ifs, then we must make decisions based on facts. And the number I have is that 21⁄2%. of the agricultural land we have has been bought up. Then I agree that there is an unknown fact that I am completely in favour of and therefore we welcome the fact that the Minister is setting up a working group, and I think that is actually a very great response to Mr Beazley's question. Torsten Gejl's proposal. And that's also why I recognized that Mr. Torsten Gejl has raised the concern in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162032	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162033	Yes, and thank you for that recognition. It is just that these are figures from 2018, from which the Minister and the rapporteur speak, and that is why I am obviously impatient. Normally I would also think that a working group is actually a very big gain for us in the alternative when it is the case that we think the problem is so serious. So, of course, we thank you for that. What worries us is how much land will be sold before that working party ever gets started. And the Prime Minister himself told me yesterday in this Chamber that we should have it directly into the agricultural negotiations. So why doesn't it come?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162113	But neither I nor the Minister refuse to do so, and that is really a great incentive for Mr. President. Torsten Gejl to really bite the edge of the table in the ongoing negotiations. After all, they are the ones who sit and are in a final agreement that also influences the ink that comes on paper in the final agreement. So I'm just gonna take sir. Torsten Gejl's invitation, as I understand it, to make this a theme in the agricultural negotiations. I welcome this, let us have a discussion on it, let us see what is possible. But that does not rule out a working group set up by the Minister, because I think it is really important to follow it here, even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162152	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162213	Thank you. With this proposal, the alternative is to set a ceiling on how much each farmer can own of land, and that is a proposal that we cannot in any way support in the Left. For us in the Left, it is crucial that we have many different types of agriculture, many different sizes of agriculture and thus also a very varied food production in Denmark. It is from the very small niche producer, the small farm shop, and then to the very large farms with a large production, which is also targeted exports and thus also helps to provide a basis for a great many jobs and large exports, which we want to maintain. We are good at everything, you might say, both the small niche producer with quality products that have the local focus and focus on tourists, and also the big efficient food producer with a focus on exports. This means that we have all types of food, and I think that is important, in other words, that we have all types of food on the shelves, both those we know and those that are developing. In Denmark, too, we have very strict rules on both the environment and animal welfare, which are also being enforced and which must be respected by everyone. In the Left, we are a liberal party and, of course, we have a great deal of focus on private property, which is close to our heart. This bill is going to touch it, and we do not like it, so I can just say briefly that we reject this proposal and will vote against it if it is put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162401	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162405	Does the rapporteur have no concern at all as to whether Danish Agriculture is Danish, i.e. whether it is our land? Does it matter to the rapporteur about 20-30-40 per cent? of the Danish agricultural land is owned by foreign land, e.g. participations? Does the rapporteur have any feelings about this at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162426	Of course we do. But there is no reason to paint up a scare picture. It is, of course, being followed on an ongoing basis by various successive ministers in this area, and if it were to run out of control, we would, of course, be dealing with it, but we must also put a holistic approach to it. As well as there are Danish farmers who are investing in agriculture abroad and it is also very good that some from abroad have still taken an interest in investing in Denmark. There have been some from the Netherlands and different situations with milk producers etc. I have also noted that some of them have withdrawn the emotional horns because the conditions of competition are a bit tighter. So I think it is good that there is one, we should call it healthy interest on both sides in the sense that it is both some Danish farmers who buy and invest abroad, and then there can be a suitable number of foreign farmers who, we might say, are interested in perhaps running some farming in Denmark. Of course there must be a balance. That is also my feeling with what I am informed that it is in a reasonable balance. But of course we follow it. But there's no need to paint scare pictures.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162534	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162535	I think the rapporteur will be able to hear from my forthcoming speech that there are very large capital funds that have a very, very good look at Denmark. There are also a great many young farmers who are deeply concerned that they will ever be able to afford to pay for a farm. After all, the new generations of young organic farmers and women themselves must compete with large capital funds to buy agriculture. Can the rapporteur not see that we are in fact in danger of making it impossible for the new generations to take over agriculture? That is my one question. The second is: how many percent of Danish Agriculture will the rapporteur accept be sold?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162612	Well, there has always been and must always be a focus on the fact that the conditions for taking over existing farms are present. And there are always challenges. Therefore, there has also been a focus on looking at various other types of ownership, e.g.: pension fund models where farmers can come together in e.g. a company and take over some of the great achievements, which are also now facing a generational change. There are certainly some challenges there. There has always been, whether you went back 10 years, 20 years or 30 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162645	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512162657	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you for the proposal to adjust land laws so as to reduce the influence of foreign capital funds. And I actually put such a little emphasis on the latter: less. It is not, of course, a ban on obtaining foreign capital, because if it had been, there would have been a frontal attack on agriculture. Because, with the many restrictions and the challenges facing agriculture, both in relation to the legislation that comes from the European Union and also the legislation that comes from Denmark, there has been a huge challenge for many years in terms of raising capital, and also in terms of creating the possibility of a generational change. So actually praise that you haven't tightened the bow any more than that. I would also like to say that when you look at agriculture, we can thank Danish agriculture very much. When you look at where Denmark was in the 1950s, where agriculture simplified and so really got started with the cooperative movement, and where the small went together and grew bigger and more farmers could see something in it, we are today in a place where there are not so many primary farmers left, but it is still gone the same way of thinking. It's still the same mindset when we look at this thing about having the communities, when we look at Danish Crown and the others, when we look at Arla • Arla is also owned by farmers. So the idea that you have a community in Denmark about being a farmer still leaves us. And there I fully agree: we must ensure this; that there is still that understanding that you are part of a community and not just there alone. I think that's very important. I would also like to say that we are not so afraid of that. Because being big certainly doesn't have to be something bad. We have also seen some organic farmers who have been very, very large and have operated organic farming, so it is easy to do so. You can also be very large and run a very good conventional farm etc. So the size we in the Danish People's Party are not so afraid of. It is also, of course, a question of being competitive, and once again we are also fighting for a second committee, such as the labour market and other things, that it should be on equal working conditions. It must also be said that expenditure in Denmark is higher than in many of the countries with which Danish agriculture competes. And that is why Danish agriculture has always had to raise capital in order to convert, develop and invest in new technology etc. We are currently discussing how to do something more about CO2 We are now discussing how to get rid of more nitrogen. A great deal of this requires quite a lot of investment in agriculture. Well, how do you make these field maps? How to become more environmentally friendly in relation to climate etc.? And that requires some investment. So I actually think, when I hear the debate, that what the minister said is important here, maybe actually get this overview. And I also heard that the rapporteur sometimes asked: where are we really? And I cannot give that answer myself either: where are we? I do not really think that the Minister has given a very good answer to the problem presented by the alternative here. I guess we don't quite agree on this size thing, but I think it's important to have an overview of what it looks like out there. We must remember, however, that agricultural land can never be moved. In other words, agricultural land cannot be removed, nor should one think that because one is owned by some others, one has some other rules to live up to. Of course, you have to live up to the same rules, no matter what ownership looks like. But we have something to safeguard, and it is this unity that we have seen, yes, both before and after the war: that the Danish farmers have been able to deliver and, as such, also deliver to this day. Danish agriculture is extremely important for the Danish labour market. There is no doubt that Danish agriculture is incredibly important for our export markets, and it must also be said that when you look at Danish agriculture and the products they produce, we are world-renowned for a very, very high quality. That is why we have a unique special status around the world where we can sell our products and enter markets where others have difficulty. There are some farmers who have complained when they have made the rules in the first place and said: why do we have to do that, and it is really annoying that they have hit us. And a few years later you can see that you can actually capitalise on the legislation that there is, and that has been very positive. But again: it has also required some capital injection and it has been a challenge. So we will also follow the working party closely and see what comes out of it, but we are not afraid in the same way as the proposers, but we also recognise the premise of the proposal that it is not, of course, to remove the whole basis for obtaining foreign capital, but to reduce it. And it is, in fact, an attenuating and actually a positive circumstance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163156	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163200	Thank you for your speech and recognition of this work, despite the fact that the rapporteur did not entirely agree with how it should be resolved. Does the rapporteur share the feeling that I also have that, as our agriculture is being sold, we are losing more and more land, for example? 10%, 20% 30% Well, there's also something emotional in it, and it's something you probably never get back. Where does the rapporteur think that the limit is for how much of Denmark we want to buy abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163238	I mean, if you go to the stock market, everyone can buy. I can buy a share, and all other people can also buy a Danish share, and it will be spread out on many nationalities if you have a limited liability company. But what is important to us is that we maintain production, that we are always sure that we in Denmark maintain production on the land we have. Now, of course, we are talking at the moment about the need to take out many lands. This is a different approach to it, but on the land that remains, we must have efficient production which is in harmony with nature and the environment and which creates growth and employment in Denmark and which we can tax and where we can then get some welfare for that money, and that is what is really important. Agricultural land does not disappear, but there may also be some who are so wealthy that they own something that they will not use. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163325	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163326	I mean, a third of the world's farmland is dead, it's turned into desert. It has simply been overgrown. So farmland can actually disappear, the soil can simply become worthless because you can't grow it anymore. It has happened in many places in Eastern Europe, where there are almost deserts. One can imagine that large capital funds must have a high return which makes them torment the land to the limit, because of course they must comply with the rules. Could the rapporteur not also be worried that we are simply losing our agricultural land in the sense that there will be so much mass farming with monoculture that the land will be so torn apart that the value of it will disappear?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163401	No, I think that is a wrong premise to set up. Of course, as a representative of the Danish People's Party, I have the same feeling that I would like Denmark to be owned by Danes, and so I agree entirely with that. But we also see in other areas, for example, as I mentioned, public limited companies and others, that it is being sold to those who now offer the highest bid and buy the shares and own them for a period of time. I would also say that if you own Danish agricultural land you certainly do not own any of Europe's cheapest agricultural land. It is absolutely not, and one would also destroy one's investment if one treated it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163436	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next one is sir. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163455	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl for the proposal, which brings up an important discussion, namely about how to own the land and who will do it, and that is For what does it look like? In connection with these great conversations about generational change, how can we also imagine that we can find other ways of owning the earth together? I think that is quite important, rather than a 'no' discussion, to try to reverse it and say: how can we create the opportunities we want? There are, of course, some things in this proposal where I think it really stands a little in the way of the development that one could imagine with good cooperative movements that could own land together, rent out to farmers, and if it is that we start to set a ceiling on it at 375 hectares, then it is a little in the way of that. So there are some things in this proposal that I can't quite make fit. I think it is very good that the Minister has set up a working group to provide us with more knowledge and, as has been said several times, we have some figures from 2018. I'm not gonna share Mr. Knox's name. Torsten Gejl's fear that it's 40%. of the area that has now been sold since 2018 until today. Okay, I was the one who misunderstood what was said before. Well, I don't think it's so bad at this point, but it's good to get a knowledge in place and look at how this is going to be arranged in the future, how we're going to own the Earth, and how we're going to stand for the generational shifts that are. Then I actually think that this discussion about foreign or Danish owners is a little important. For a skilled farmer from Croatia, as well as a Dane, can lead an agriculture in Denmark if they work here, live here and grow agriculture according to the regulation that is now in place, and I think that is actually quite important to have in this discussion. Because, whether it is a capital fund, a pension fund, a cooperative movement, a privately owned agriculture, we need to have some proper regulation to ensure that no one is tormenting the land to ensure that there is not too much nitrogen emissions that destroy our water environment, which will ensure that it is grown, so that we take care of our climate. It does not matter who owns it, because then the rules must be good and strict, so we will ensure the green transition that is to take place. So that is not where I think it is quite a goal either. So we cannot support the proposal, but we think it is an important discussion to take, and we are actually pleased that the Minister has taken it seriously and that this working group has been set up so that we can get more knowledge in place and have a good and sensible discussion about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163727	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163731	Thanks for a good speech. I agree with many of the points. And when we've made this and got this resolution up, it's also because I think there are a lot of people who don't know we're selling Denmark, and many who don't know that we sold 3% from 2015-2018, and we have no idea how much we've sold since. So it is also an attempt to get the debate out and, like, to get us to decide how much we want to sell our country. How do we feel about losing control of so much country? What do you think, sir? Rasmus Nordqvist compared to the one with whose large capital funds invest in large parts of Denmark? What influence does the rapporteur think it will have on climate, on biodiversity, on the possibility of drinking water being contaminated, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163821	First of all, I have to arrest this premise that we are selling Denmark. Well, I think some scare pictures are being drawn up that are very unfortunate. I don't like acting on fear. I'd rather act on knowledge. That's why this working group is good. What I think is quite important to talk about here too is that whether it is a foreign fund or a small farmer with 50 hectares, we must have proper regulation to ensure that the land is cultivated in accordance with the wishes we have. So it should have no influence whatsoever, because hopefully we have such precise and strict regulation that no compromise can be reached with it. Again I would say: I think this is an important discussion, but I am just worried about the premise that it is being taken from here in this proposal. That's why it's good that this working group is now coming with knowledge so we can discuss it. But I am not afraid that a farmer comes from the Netherlands and has an agriculture in Denmark. I am not afraid of the fact that only Danes can own the land in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163924	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512163926	It's not really an attempt to act out of fear. In my speech, the rapporteur will hear that there are interests in which Danish agricultural land is planned to be purchased for 100 billion. At least for billions of euros. It is on the way, and how often have we not put pressure on our concerns, while the big things have happened and what we did not manage to fear has actually happened? There is a risk that we may now have sold 5.6, 7%. There is a risk that we will have sold 10% this autumn. Does the rapporteur not see that action must sometimes be taken before anything happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164003	Yes, I can, and that's why it makes sense for us to get some knowledge. I don't like acting until you have knowledge in place, because then you act in perfection, and I think that's the wrong way to act. That's really why I'm arresting the way I talk about it. I think it's a good thing that we get the knowledge right. And then I just have to say again: no matter who owns farmland, it must be cultivated so that it does not burden our environment, our climate and our nature. Hopefully, that is what we are debating right now in the climate and agricultural negotiations that have begun so little, so it is precisely about the fact that everyone must, of course, cultivate the land in a proper way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164040	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164106	Thank you for that, and thank you for the alternative and Mr. Torsten Gejl for making the proposal. We will not be voting in favour, but I think that the proposal has already served a good purpose, since the Minister has set up this working group or intends to do so. That is why I would also like to thank the Minister for that statement. In fact, the alternative and the Minister are putting some concerns ahead of us, because we have met the same stories around the country about these international investors, and the concern, I see, comes mostly from the smaller farms. Because this is not necessarily an obstacle to the regulation and proper management of agricultural land in accordance with nature, climate, etc. etc. that you have an international owner, because you still have to follow the law, but what worries me is when land becomes a capital investment. We already have a rather big problem with land that is so expensive that new farmers cannot enter the market. With that said, there may also be some differences of interest in Danish agriculture in relation to this agenda, because it is clear that if you are sitting with some land and intending to sell it within the next 10 years, it is perhaps very good that someone can come from outside and buy it, because that helps to force prices up. Conversely, if you are a young farmer who would like to start with a little land, you might really like to have a lot of land, but you might not be able to afford that, because then it is something like this, so that land becomes such a speculative object that it can be really difficult to enter the market so to say and establish itself as a farmer. Therefore, I think that this is a very relevant discussion, which may not be so much about who owns Denmark, but which is just as much about the opportunities for Danes to farm in their own country and where they own the land and not just rent the land. This brings me to another subject, namely the issue of renting the land. It can of course also be a good thing, and it has also been mentioned up here that it could then be a plan B if, as a young farmer, you cannot afford to go out to buy these very expensive lands; then you can rent yourself to the ground, and of course we would also like to take a look at that. But in some way it is also a kind of symptom treatment of a land market that has come out of control and where the price of the land does not always reflect the return you can actually get on it by cultivating it. That is why we really welcome this discussion and the work of this working group. We do not have the solutions at all, but we have found that there is a problem and that there is a great deal of concern, not least among new generations of farmers • future farmers who find it difficult to establish themselves because of the very high land prices. In those words, I would like to thank again the alternative for putting forward the proposal. I often find it a little annoying when people constantly make motions for resolutions that you could not just write a letter of reading etc. etc? So thank you for that, and thank you to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164438	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164441	Thanks for the words. I also think that we are just as quietly understanding something that we had not just been able to think about, namely that we are selling a lot of land and that it may be that things are going really, really fast. What does the rapporteur think if it is now the case that this working group finds out that land has actually been sold at an increasing rate, that we are perhaps up to 5, 8 or 10 per cent?? Does the rapporteur have any ideas on what we can do? How can we stem this if we do not actually believe that a large part of our agricultural land should be on foreign hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164517	I simply do not have an answer to that. That is why I am so pleased that a working group is being set up. It's insanely complicated. Some of the things I forgot to say in my rapporteur's speech, which I had just stood down there and thought I should also remember to mention, are also about some of the rules that we have for the application of manure. As far as I remember, there was previously a connection between how many livestock you had and how much land you owned. But it has also been one of the structural things that has been softened up, which can of course also do something in relation to the soil and all of this extremely complex complex that agriculture is. I think we should also look at such things, because there are often a lot of structural measures that you may not really have been aware of what the consequences would be, but which may have helped to create this development in Denmark with these very high land prices and other things that we could have a proper and fundamental talk about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164618	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164619	There's also a lot of emotion in this, when you talk about it, and when you think about how we sell our land. Does the rapporteur think that if a larger part of Denmark is owned by people living on the other side of the earth, possibly owned by capital funds, it is harder for them to worry about our drinking water, harder for them to worry about climate and biodiversity? It should not be understood that they should not abide by the rules, but that that feeling of living in your own country and cultivating the land for generations may make you look after everything a little better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164653-2	I'm not gonna be able to deny that. I've just been sitting with a story about a inn in Hyllinge on Zealand that's burned down, and there's just not really anyone who wants to come and clean up that damn thing because the owner lives in Lithuania. There may be a little less concern when you're sitting far away. So I won't be able to deny it. But we must at the same time recognise that there are also Danes who buy waste farms in Sweden and that there are Danish farmers who produce in Eastern Europe and China. So it goes both ways. Of course, that must also be taken into account before you like to sit down on your own country. At any rate, we say no to the Danes having to sit down on other countries. This, of course, is also an interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164738	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512164753	Thank you and thank you for raising the debate here about limiting the influence of foreign capital funds. We all agree that we should have done so. In the past, the Enhedslisten has asked such a continuous question about how things are going with development, and it is also in connection with the fact that, as such, a note has been made describing that a few years ago 66 500 hectares of which 16,800 ha were owned by companies. So in that ownership of foreigners there is a rather large lump, which is EU citizens who have settled in Denmark and operate a farm and where Dutch are a good share. I also stumble a little over some figures, where it looks as if there are relatively many from Norway who own small farms in Denmark. I do not know whether this is related to the fact that it is incredibly difficult as a foreigner to buy a holiday home in Denmark. Then you can buy a abandoned farmhouse close to the sea and then maybe have a leisure home like that. I don't know if that's what's behind the numbers. And is it that bad? Yes, in some parts of the country it may be better for it to be used, that house, rather than for it to stand and fall. The fact that foreign participations come to Denmark and buy something up gives insecurity in some places. It was not long ago that there was an example from Randersgården, where the rumor was that there were some German participations that wanted to buy up 1,000 hectares. I have no idea if they succeeded, but this is something that can affect the development of a local community and limit the opportunities for young farmers to establish themselves in that part of the country if it is the case that there are outside owners who have other plans. And what plans did they have? Was it just to place capital in Denmark in land, or was it because they wanted to drive or cultivate that land in some way? So I think we should be very sceptical about this foreign acquisition. What are the solutions, what is the equivalent of that? It may be legislation that prevents it. We are quite open to this, especially when it is companies. I am not right where I think a Dutch farmer should be prevented from settling in Denmark and farming here. I kind of think that's okay. It's kind of the capital funds that we'd like to play a part in by law. We also see the possibility of creating state land funds that could buy up land. I predict that we will be entering a period when land prices are falling, and then there may be foreign participations that seem attractive to buy, and that is where I think we should be prepared to buy up land with a state farm fund so that we can establish more state forest, lay low ground, low natural areas, put more turbo on the ecological conversion. I can see that. I also see that we could do something that could help secure our drinking water in some areas. The alternative has proposed such an area ceiling of 375 hectares. I really think it would be more obvious to restrict the number of hectares to which agricultural aid can be granted. This is something that the countries of the European Union can regulate themselves, so a ceiling could be set in Denmark for how many hectares of agricultural aid could be obtained. That is the way I would rather restrict large farms rather than set a limit of 375 hectares. We are not in a situation where we lack farmers, and that is why it is also the reality out there that there are many farms which are considerably larger than 375 hectares, including some of the organic farming. Then it is a bit strange to think back to the fact that it is not long ago that we changed the conditions in which farms could be built, where, until about 2005, we should have the green proof to buy more than 20 hectares. We're not going back anymore. I remember taking the green proof of Kalø Organic Farming School, where someone took over a larger farm from her father and took the green proof because the rules were such, and then she could not have taken over the estate for more than six months, so she could have taken over the estate without training. But I think it's always good to have education and use it for something. I also think that we should focus on the fact that it is not only owning the land that can help ensure some momentum in something. I think that much more attention should be paid to the fact that you can also lease land and thereby drive something. It can be a long lease contract, and it can thus ensure that more people enter the agricultural industry and help to make the transition to more ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512165252	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512165256	Thank you for a good speech and some thoughtful arguments, and the rapporteur also takes this seriously. I see a number of young people who would like to be farmers, among others. Also graduates from Kalø Agricultural School, who are incredibly concerned about whether there will be money for a farm for them. They say that when they are going to the market, they must go out and compete against the capital funds, which also concern the rapporteur, and which are also those who really care about me. When we sell such large pieces of agriculture, how will small organic farmers and women enter the market? What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512165340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512165342	There, I think, is an entrance to lease, and it can also be a lease with a right to buy; that is what we are doing, among other things. has established in Denmark's ecological land-use fund, which is out to buy up agricultural land and then leases it out on ecological terms, where the tenant has a right to buy the land at all times and also after 10 years. I also thought there were some exciting things in a process that ran a few years ago. It was called the socially beneficial agriculture, and they went around the country and found examples of how agricultural production had arisen without the purchase of land, where it was typical that a farmer who had left buildings rented the buildings to some young farmers who were then out to invest in livestock and could thus have a production. Then it may well be that the farmer who owned the land and the buildings had a contract where he supplied some feed to the animals. So there were new ways of working together so that it's not the old-fashioned thing about there being one farmer, and he runs the whole production and owns it all. One opens up that there may also be other types of production.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512165451	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512165452	I certainly believe that the rapporteur is heading in the right direction. But couldn't it require that we create a state land user fund, that is, if we are going to do it so powerfully that we have now seen how many billions we suddenly needed to spend on corona, and we still have a lot of credit rating, we have still gone large values in Denmark • simply go in and buy some of that land and then maybe split it up into a little smaller parts? For those plots are becoming so large that they are almost impossible to invest in for young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512165525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512165526	Yes. The Enhedslisten has made proposals on several occasions about such a land user fund, and the last time we did it back in 2017 I was rapporteur on it, and it was about the creation of Denmark's ecological land user fund under state auspices. Although it has the same name as the one who is private, who is currently doing good deeds, it is, in fact, a work that returns to 2001 when a report was made and which did not materialise because a Fogh government came. But we have the chance to take up that report and make it a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512165558	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512165629	Thank you for that, President. And thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl to debate this subject. We have a fantastic agriculture in Denmark. It is large and significant with 180,000-190,000 jobs, it provides great currency revenue and great activity in society, and it contributes to the Danish well-being to an extent that is impressive. I wonder a little bit about the thinking of restricting the industry and the development of the industry, among other things. in relation to the area per hectare and in relation to the type of ownership. For what is needed is no more narrow and restrictive rules, but rather more dynamic. And if you go in and look at what ownership in agriculture is like, we are probably there, where we have to say that the ownership of agricultural land by Danish farmers outside Denmark far exceeds the area owned by foreign landowners in Denmark. And we should be happy about that, because the huge production that Danish farmers make abroad contributes to Danish welfare as well. I also think you can be a little worried about the limitations on ownership, from where you come from, so we also have a summer house rule in Denmark, which we actually protect, and it could quickly get into play. And whatever form of ownership it is agriculture that operates in Denmark, it is extremely regulated. After all, we have plenty of regulation in relation to the environment, manure chemistry, accounts for all sorts of things; we have an agriculture that produces healthy and good food • actually with the world's smallest climate footprint per year. produced unit. And I think we should be glad that Danish farmers are so efficient that there is nowhere in the world where food is produced with less climate footprint than in Denmark. That is why it is also worth developing Danish agriculture forward-looking, because it almost goes without saying that if it is the case that we had to reduce in Danish agriculture, the climate impression of the food production that would then take place elsewhere would grow, and that would be inappropriate. So let's make sure we can produce lots of food in Danish because of Danish farmers with a minimal climate footprint. I think we should work for this and restrictions are not what is needed. And I certainly think that this is inappropriate, because it can also mean that young farmers cannot get a production which can be large enough for them to exist. After all, it is no matter to run a small farm if it is the case that you have owned it for many years and have no debt, but if you are a young and new farmer and have to set yourself up, there has to be a certain amount of production before it can run around, and therefore there is no need for restrictions. So we will vote against the proposal if it comes to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512170002	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512170005	Thanks for the speech. But it is true that such a farm must have a certain size in order for it to run around. The problem is that when it gets a certain size, it becomes almost impossible to buy for small farmers and women. How are we gonna solve this? How should we try to ensure that the new generations of young farmers' interested Danes have an opportunity to enter the market?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512170032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512170033	Well, thank you. We see several different options. Firstly, there are some who are extremely energetic and are able to convince their bank that they are so skilled that they can borrow enough money to buy a farm. Secondly, there are also examples of the Danish pension funds simply buying some properties and putting some young farmers to run them, so that, when a 10-year period seems to have passed, they can take over the holding. For then they have been able to build up large equity capital so that they can take over such a property. There are several examples of how young farmers can get started. We also see that there are some who, when they retire as farmers, may have several properties, and when they divide it up, it can be divided into some smaller bites, you can say where you sell each property separately and something like that. So I don't see the big problem. I mean, if we look at how many farms are for sale, it is actually not very many. And I actually see that they are being sold at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512170138	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512170139	Does the rapporteur think that the agricultural culture, in other words the tradition that we have in Denmark, for agriculture to be inherited generation after generation, will be the same if it is the case that Danish agriculture is largely owned by international interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512170200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512170200-2	But whether it is a young farmer who engages with, for example, a pension fund, or it is in relation to a foreign fund, or how and how it is, I do not see the difference as a starting point. If it is the case that you buy a property, you will typically also have to establish a fairly large debt, and then it is the credit association and the bank that has the participation, you might say. It may also be a pension fund, and it may also be other forms. But I really don't see it as so crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512170235	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the proposer, sir. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512170257	Thanks to the government for setting up a working group to look at this. It is not every day that a party that sees a huge problem here succeeds in getting the government to take it so seriously. So thank you for that. The reason why the alternative has tabled this motion for a resolution is that Danish agricultural land and thus potentially very large parts of Denmark are actually being sold. Liberalisation of the Agricultural Act entered into force on 1 January 2015 and has made it easier for external investors to purchase Danish agricultural holdings. This has resulted in a 2.5% sale from 2015-2018. of the total Danish agricultural area, which corresponds to 66.500 ha, or, to put it another way: twice the Greater Copenhagen. The 49,700 hectares were bought by 1,760 individuals, preferably from the EU, and the 16,800 hectares were bought by approx. 300 foreign companies, mainly resident in the EU. That means that 2.5%. of Danish agriculture was sold in 3 years, and I would very much have liked to have told the Danish Parliament how much land has later been sold, and thus how much everything has been sold today, but those figures are simply impossible to get. If I know these kinds of schemes right, then things are slowest at first, and I fear that there is a huge darkness in the sale of agriculture, and I fear that they are increasingly being taken over by participations and capital funds. The large multinational investors, as everyone knows, are not interested in paying negative interest rates, and Danish land has a lucrative investment and speculative potential here. As I said, we do not know how much land is sold to whom, but we always hear about Danish land being traded around Denmark. Kim Qvist from the Danish Organic Agricultural Fund tells us that about 1,000 hectares of araI have been bought at Randers. In addition, they have knowledge of areas that have remained in South Jutland and on Møn. But to whom? We can't figure it out. They have been in contact with many real estate agents who say that they often show off Danish farmland to foreign investors they just won't tell who. In addition, the capital funds' own websites show that they have already bought and want to buy more. Farm Company a/s, owned by the English richman David John Hughes, has investors from e.g. Hong Kong and Holland are a good example of a global investment company profiting from Danish farmland. Today they own large farms and 1,645 ha. in Southwest Jutland, and they aim to own 5,000 hectares in the long term. Their website provides 10 good reasons to buy Danish agriculture, and here they highlight that Denmark is stable to invest in, has good conditions for agricultural companies and has no restrictions on how much foreign buyers can buy. They also mention CO2 and that sounds good at first, but in the opinion of the Alternative it has some inherent problems. On the one hand, it sounds like greenwashing, and on the other it sounds as if our Danish efforts for climate and nature are being used as a marketing parameter in relation to our own soil. So, our climate and nature and environmental efforts are simply costing us our country. Another fund, according to the Agricultural News, has said that they want to buy up agricultural land for billions. The International Capital Fund JBI Equity, which has pension funds and insurance companies in its backs, says in the Agricultural News in 2017, that there are such large values to be moved to a new generation, and within 10-12 years it is absolutely necessary to change, and that is the buyer's market. So much capital is required that it can be difficult for young farmers to get that money somewhere else, they say in this fund themselves. They say that they did not plan for the investment in Denmark, but that it should be concrete during 2018. If it goes as we want it, they say, investment in Denmark will initially include three-digit million euros. It may grow to 1 billion. Euro in 10 years. But you have to be conservative at first. The challenge is not to get money into the industry, that is to buy Danish land, but to make the money grow, says the head of this giant capital fund. If their plan holds, it is some of them who are currently buying Danish land. And I think their opinion contains several major potential problems for Danish agriculture. Firstly, they talk about Danish farmers and women finding it difficult to afford to take over Danish farms because the price is too high when competing with international capital funds. This means that the idea that the young generation of organic Danish farmers and women risks becoming a myth. We risk making it impossible for Danish agricultural students to ever have the opportunity to make a career in their profession. Secondly, Kristian Bennetsen from JBI Equity talks about being conservative at first. The challenge is not to get money into the industry, but to make it grow. And that is the essence when Danish agriculture is bought up by participations: money must be made. How does that compare with the fact that Danish agriculture is in a climate crisis, a biodiversity crisis, a potential drinking water crisis and an economic crisis? I don't want to get any money out of the weather but it's against getting it to grow and it's crazy some Danish water just bought interests to earn money and how does it harmonize with the Svendborg facing a climate crisis a biodiversity crisis a potential drink while a pig and a cow Noomi are supposed to shine according to Kim Qvist on Danish organic yogurt fruit so answer to these prices not that we're just going to with foreign capital Denmark for some promoted bought to your Denmark for a Swiss can be German or Chinese paid for evil then my rent as our fucking lover wants to double we can pay for a music while you're not friends with climate-friendly solution with regenerative methods and the cups from my we can pay for the safe news and the cups from my we can pay for a music good news According to Kim Qvist from Denmark's Organic Agricultural Fund is the answer to these crises not that we just need to have more foreign capital into Denmark, because when we get foreign capital into Denmark from a Swiss, Dutch, German or Chinese, and Chinese capital fund will be able to help us. Will the capital funds ensure our drinking water and make climate-friendly solutions with regenerative methods and carbon farming? Will the capital funds ensure that the next generation of farmers will join? And will the capital funds from Switzerland or China, for example. show up for general meetings in Denmark and as fire souls be active in the local association life and help find solutions across which characterises and benefits the Danish tradition? I don't think so. This is alone for one reason: they have to bring money to where they give the biggest return, and in Denmark we are favoured by the fact that we have low inflation and almost no corruption. Based on speculative thinking, Denmark is a core country to be in right now... then the investors just wait for the land prices to rise, and then they sell again to the highest bidder without any qualms about what they leave behind. It is a deadly deed to invite foreign capital funds into Danish agriculture uncritically when we have all the many crises that require immediate vigilance. We must therefore set up at least some ground rules and at least also know who buys Danish farmland and what they will do about it in a sustainable perspective. Therefore, the best thing will also be for us to look again at the legislation from 2015 when agriculture was liberalised... not necessarily a roll-back of the law, as several rapporteurs have also said, because we need to be open to new fund-based and sustainable agricultural solutions that are on the way with Organic Samsø, Denmark's Organic Farming Fund and Cooperative Farms etc., as Kim Qvist from Denmark's Organic Farming Fund says. In the alternative, we fear that the large capital funds in search of making profits for their own market will torment the earth and create endless monocultures of grain deserts and go to the edge of all rules when it comes to using fertilizers and pesticides. We're afraid that our land will be destroyed....... one third of the world's land is.....One can torment the soil so much that it is no longer cultivated. Just in southern Europe, agricultural land is becoming more and more deserted, both because the climate is getting warmer and because the land is being tormented by industrial agriculture. A good fertile soil is a good investment opportunity because arable land is not an unlimited source. If you do not grow sustainably, the earth over time will be so tormented that it will become unbearable as a desert. Cultivable soil is not a product that you can mass produce. Danish agricultural land is today a good arable land and therefore also a good investment opportunity. Denmark is an agricultural country, but if we do not reinvent agriculture, this may not be in 60 years' time. We've already lost a third of Earth's fertile soil. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation has estimated that we have 60 harvest years left if industrial agriculture is allowed to continue as it does now. At the same time, they state that biodiversity is a prerequisite for us to continue to produce food, no biodiversity, no fertile soil, no agriculture, no Danish produced food, no Samsøkartofels, no Danish carrots, nothing. All of this is trying to contain this resolution. We risk selling the land we've been growing for a thousand years on a single generation. We risk becoming a people without agricultural land, and we risk becoming administrators of Chinese or American participations; we risk becoming speculators or food productions for their own markets. The agricultural negotiations, which at the moment have great attention in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, are going to run the risk of dealing with the land of others. That is why I am also extremely pleased that yesterday, when I presented her with this problem during Question Time, the Prime Minister said that the task of stopping the sale of agricultural land comes into the current agricultural negotiations. She has obviously not just been told that to the Minister for Agriculture, but I think that, although I am usually not very much for working groups, because we have seen many pickles, the fact that a working group is being set up is actually very exciting, because it will also find out how much we are actually selling. We do not know how much we have sold since 2018, and that is one of the main issues we have raised. The working group will help the population to begin to understand and thus be able to decide how much of Denmark should actually remain Danish, and what implications it has in relation to climate and environment and nature and drinking water that a greater proportion of the owners who own Denmark actually sit on the other side of the earth. So after I had just recovered, I am actually very pleased that a working group is now being set up. It is not every day that the government takes something that comes from other parties so seriously. So, of course, I would like to thank you for that. Then I would like to thank the rapporteurs not for their concrete support, but for a whole lot of statements that they also see this problem as very serious. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512171302	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512171305	Thank you for your concern and for your proposal. I think we can also use this opportunity to point out that there could be other developments which accelerated. The fact that the agricultural law has been liberalised means that you can imagine any ownership of the land, and it is there, something like Organic Samsø, where you have created a fund that buys land and leases it to seventeen young farmers who want to go to the island and grow organically, is one example. It has given inspiration to others: to Denmark's organic soil user fund, which was launched on the initiative of the Danish Nature Conservation Association and Mercury Andelskasse, and which is now out to invest for 100 million. kr. After all, these are some examples that can just be copied, and I would like to see more rural communities joining together and like bought agricultural land jointly and defining what it is to be grown and what it is for some livestock to be on that land. Can the rapporteur see any prospects in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512171406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512171407	I can do that very, very much. I have been in close dialogue with a girl named Kirstine who has attended Kalø Ecological Agricultural School. She and her peers, who want to enter agriculture, are calling for a farm fund. They are calling for land to be bought by the state, which may then be rented out at the beginning, or that can be split up into pieces that are small enough to be so cheap that they can buy them, and that if they cannot buy them at the beginning, then just as quietly can win the credit and rights and ownership of them and then maybe buy them later. So there's a great hope. She also suggests that we should perhaps be able to grant special loans to young farmers to get them into the market so that they can get their first farm and start developing it. So the answer is yes, and the alternative is also included in our big agricultural proposal that we would like to spend a billion dollars on a farm fund and start trying to cut some very large areas into farms that are so large that you can live off them, but so small that you can afford them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512171509	Here you go. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512171511	I have also followed in that there were some pension funds that went in and bought up land and rented it out, and there is the problem that if you take a too high rent, it will not go. There is a limit to how much farmers can get out of the land, so there is a task in making the right cut. I think it would be interesting if the negative interest rates imposed on people could lead to more people starting to wonder whether you should perhaps place your money in something that benefits society rather than get negative interest rates in a Danish bank. Does the rapporteur see that we might be able to lift something there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210512171544	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512171545	Yeah. In other words, capital is looking for good investments, because participations do not like negative interest rates. So that's for sure. And land is a very, very fine investment. However, as the rapporteur also says, it is a problem if the lease becomes too expensive. Every time we make it more expensive for the young generations to take over our land in any way, we make it easier for the big participations. I really look forward to seeing what that working group is saying and then entering into a real discussion on how we might possibly stop Denmark being sold out to a very large extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512171624	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210512171639	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Monday 17 May 2021 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
