ParlaMint-DK_20210323131506	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Request no. F 55 (Will the Minister explain the action against foreign beggars, in particular in the light of the recent judgment of the Court of Human Rights (Lacatus) and in this context indicate what measures are envisaged to maintain and intensify pressure on foreign beggars and their backers?). Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Inger Støjberg (UFG): Hasteforsvar nr. F 56 (What do the Prime Minister think are the reasons why the pressure of infection in Vollsmose is significantly higher than elsewhere in the country, and how will the Minister address the cultural challenges of Vollsmose and other ghettos that stand in the way of effective and safe management of the epidemic, which is a danger to the rest of society?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210323131536	The case listed as No. 9 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323131552	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323131708	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Left in West Jutland Storkreds, Kenneth Mikkelsen, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from 1 April 2021 when Kristian Jensen resigns his mandate per year. 31 March 2021. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, with the agreement of the House, I shall consider the recommendation as adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323131738	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. Before I start the vote, I want to make sure that all the parties that have to vote are present in the Chamber because a vote has to start, and I want to make sure that all Members have their own name in front of the panel that is now about to be used. If that is the case, I will start the vote. There are three proposals before us, and first we shall vote on the motion for a resolution. V 84 by Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Birgitte Vind (S), Astrid Carøe (SF), Samira Nawa (RV) and Pernille Skipper (EL).
ParlaMint-DK_20210323131816	A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 54 (S, SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 40 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 85 by Mr Fatma Øktem (V) and Mr Birgitte Bergman (KF) and proposals for adoption No. V 86 by Liselott Blixt (DF) and Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323131925	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 92 by Bjørn Brandenborg (S), Astrid Carøe (SF), Katrine Robsøe (RV), Bruno Jerup (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG).
ParlaMint-DK_20210323131954	A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 74 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 17 (DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 91 af Ulla Tørnæ (V), Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132045	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff of the Social Democratic Party has informed me that he wishes to make proposals for adoption No. V 88 to go. Does anyone wish to accept this proposal for adoption? As this is not the case, the proposal for adoption is No. V 88 lapsed. There are three proposals for adoption. And first, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution No. V 90 by Henrik Dahl (LA), and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 35 (S, NB, LA and 1 (V) (by mistake)) voted against 61 (V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstained 0. Proposal for adoption No The V 90 has been rejected. The vote shall then be taken on the proposal for adoption No. V 87 by Peder Hvelplund (EL), Martin Geertsen (V), Liselott Blixt (DF), Stinus Lindgreen (RV), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Torsten Gejl (ALT), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 64 (V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 31 (S and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 87 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 89 by Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132239	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132256	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132330	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132334	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 87 (S, V, DF, SF, EL, KF, NB, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 9 (RV and LA), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132414	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132418	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote shall be closed. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132454	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132459	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. For voting 94 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against voting 2 (NB), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132535	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132539	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 89 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against voting 7 (EL), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132616	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132621	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will be closed and there is a green plate. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132811	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132814	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132846	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132850	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 88 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against 7 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132929	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323132934	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. For the votes 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133009	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133016	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 10 (KF, NB and LA), against 78 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 8 (DF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133052	No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133055	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 18 (DF, KF, NB and LA), against 77 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133137	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133142	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour (S, V, SF, RV, KF, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 17 votes (DF, EL and NB), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133228	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133235	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 10 (DF and NB), against 82 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133322	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133326	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 17 (DF, EL and NB), against 77 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, LA, Susanne Zimmer and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133414	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133419	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 8 (DF), against 84 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 2 (NB). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133501	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133541	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG))? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Before I move on to the next item, I would ask those Members who do not wish to take part in the debate to leave the Chamber in good order so that we can hear what is happening at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133628	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323133634	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (EL), elected by a majority (V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) or on Amendment No 1. 2-4, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB and LA)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. That concludes the votes for today, and I shall therefore suspend the sitting for a short time until 1 p.m. 13.50.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135001	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135031	Thank you. Last summer I was visiting Køge with the mayor of Køge. We went for a walk in a residential area that looks like so many other social housing areas. Here sat on a bench a bunch of boys, five or six pieces, screaming and screaming as we walked by with the innkeeper. He asked us to walk around in a bow, and he said: They're not so dangerous right now, I'm not being threatened by them right now. Yeah, I've been doing that for a few rounds, but right now, they're actually just harassing the area. So there is a violent inhabitation replacement, among other things. Because this group of boys is terrorizing the area. It is an image that many people can recognise, not only in settlements, but also in train stations, on streets and streets, and it creates insecurity and an unacceptable situation where people cannot live in peace. This is one of the focus areas that we have had since we came to power last time. This is among other things. And some of what this bill is about. It is therefore a question of the police being given the opportunity to impose a general ban on residence in a particular area in order to put an end to unsafe behaviour. The bill also means that people convicted of violent attacks during the night can be quarantined for up to two years. The bill extends police access to confiscate valuables from a suspect, so that public debt is generally covered by seizure access. Finally, the bill also means that foreigners who are sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for negligent manslaughter or negligently significant bodily injury in connection with driving madness can be expelled from Denmark. These are four concrete elements that are based on the work we have done to create security, to ensure the safety of the Danes. It is also four elements that are part of the latest initiative on security for all Danes that has been presented. This is therefore linked to the fact that we simply do not want to accept the insecurity-building behaviour. We also know that many of those who have this insecure behavior to some extent also commit other types of crime, and some may also be on their way into hardcore gang environments. So this is one bill in the series of legislative proposals, which is intended to increase the safety of the Danes. Therefore, not surprisingly, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135333	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135340	I have to say that I am appalled that the government, with one of the parts of this bill, is beginning to make what was otherwise a temporary restriction on freedom in the Corona law, namely the issue of the general ban on residence, permanent legislation, in other words, where the police, without particularly precise criteria, can easily impose a residence ban which will restrict the freedom of movement of thousands of innocent Danes. This is a historic restriction on human rights for citizens of Denmark. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur what it is that has shown in concrete figures that it is now time to use this hammer, which in this way restricts the freedom of innocent citizens in this respect. What is it that makes it necessary to use what was otherwise temporary in Corona law to give the police a permanent tool to restrict human rights in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135437	I have read the bill, and I may have missed something, but I simply do not recall that there is a reference to the Corona law in this bill. As I said before, this is linked to the desire to create security, and I mentioned the example of a residential area. I agree that we disagree on what to do in relation to the composition of housing areas, i.e. whether it is a challenge that there are too many people who have challenges of one nature or another, including crime, in the same place. I also agree that we can disagree on whether it creates great insecurity, that there is a group of young people who sit down in an area and harass the citizens who are there. Therefore, this is not a question of restricting freedom; it is actually a question of increasing the freedom of ordinary people who can walk safely in an area and should not be nervous about going there after dark and having at least one or two friends with in order to go down a very common area in, for example. a residential area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135539	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135540	To claim to increase freedom by being able to impose a general residence ban is simply one of the most absurd things I have ever heard. And I would also like to reject the fact that we do not see the same thing about the fact that, if insecure behaviour is created, we must, of course, combat it. What is evidently just the difference is that where the Radical Left wants the criminals to be targeted, the Social Democrats, with this motion for a resolution with the residence ban, will take action against innocent Danes. Why should we further restrict the freedom of thousands of innocent Danes with a residence ban when we could instead make a targeted effort against criminals?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135623	I think that the question here was exactly the same as that which was put before and to which I replied. I would also like to reject the idea that the Radicals are not concerned about combating insecurity-building behaviour, because I think that is what they are doing. Then we disagree on the tools, and it is fair enough to be so in a political discussion. And this is not contrary to taking a very targeted approach to criminals too, as we have done in a number of other legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135651	Be aware of the fact that we do not use direct indictments. The next person to make a brief comment on the rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135700	Thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, I would like to continue with what the rapporteur of the Radicals said about freedom. We disagree, of course, on how this is to be resolved. There is no one in here who does not want to create security, but will the rapporteur recognise that, because we want to combat insecurity, we are doing something here that actually restricts freedoms? Then it may well be that it is a calculation that has been made where it has been said that it is fine, but would the rapporteur not recognise that this is, of course, a restriction of freedoms? We can then discuss afterwards whether or not this is the right proposal, but I would like to hear what the rapporteur's comment is on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135755	Yeah, that's right. When you make a residence ban, you limit the possibility of staying. That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135804	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135804-2	Okay, so we got it settled. Claus Oxfelt of the Police Association says, among other things: on this safety package: It's not a proposal we've been calling for. This is a political wish. We haven't been consulted on the contents of this package. Claus Oxfeldt also says a lot of other things about this: I foresee a lot of confrontations. It should not be underestimated that it is violent to give a young man a fine of 10,000 kroner or suddenly seize his cell phone or jacket. So Claus Oxfelt is also sceptical about this proposal and says that what you really have to bet on is preventive measures, because that is what has been missing for many years. Could the rapporteur comment on the fact that the police are also sceptical about this whole safety package and that they have not been consulted?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135852	The last thing about the fact that they have not been consulted, I will not accept. However, I would like to say that the fact that there may be disagreement on a legislative proposal is a very common part of our daily life in here. We have just adopted a law of consent, which I am extremely proud of, in which we opposed the majority of the Criminal Law Council, which recommended that we should not call it consent because we thought it politically was the right thing to do. So the fact that we are adopting legislation in here and ultimately making a political choice is my objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135920	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323135926	Thank you for this proposal from the government. It is, of course, a composite package, but I will focus on what is about more security, that is to say the residence ban, and ask the rapporteur, Mr President. Jeppe Bruus, whom I thank for a fine speech, about the Social Democrats and the government actually believe that it will have the intended effect. Because the effect should be if we tell a group of young people who are staying, for example. at a S-train station and inspires insecurity among citizens there that they stay away if they have a ban on staying there. When I have doubts whether they will do so, it is because the sanction incorporated in the proposal is a fine. And some of these groups that might create insecurity don't pay their fines. So why do the Socialists think that there is a basis for us to count on this to work? What is the basis for this, in fact, is the fact that the sanction that you intend to impose is not paid because these groups rarely actually pay their fines?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140029-2	Another part of the bill is also about this being able, as I said, to increase police access to seize valuables, etc. But it is quite right that, in relation to whether this is going to solve the problem in such a complete way, I should also like to have my doubts. But it may be part of the solution to limit, for example. a S-train station where it is very insecure to travel, to be able to impose a residence ban? I think it might be. And then, as with all other legislation, we will also have the opportunity to evaluate the tools. The aim here is to ensure that we do not stand up to or watch silently that there are groups of young people who sit down in an area harassing and creating insecurity, which means that ordinary people cannot walk there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140125	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140128	Well, I'm glad that Mr. Knox... Jeppe Bruus agrees with me that fines may not always be the answer. Perhaps you could say that something else was in traffic, how many drivers are running around and have respect for fines, because it costs money, and that leads to a change in behavior. But here I am afraid that fines are not the solution, and then the question is whether we should not already look in the toolbox and find out the things that actually work. I am thinking here of prison sentences if you do not comply with the requirements of the authorities, and I am thinking of expulsion. In other words, if you are not a Danish citizen, have a residence ban and are still in the place where you are not allowed to stay, do you not have to get out of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140210	After all, we are talking about bans on unsafe behaviour and so on. In one area, and that is what I can understand in the Radicals, it seems controversial. Now we are putting forward this draft law with four elements that are more rigorous in dealing with insecurity-building behaviour and, as I said before, what I said should have an effect, and if it does not have the desired effect, then you will be looking at it along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140233	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140237	Thank you for the floor. I therefore agree with the government that there may be insecurity-building people who may need to be moved in order for the large majority to be able to use some facilities as well. However, I also note that many people say in the hearings that this bill is very unclear. Among other things: One can, of course, be punished for staying in a ban zone, even if it is really apologetic, because there is a lack of signage or anything else that could point out that this was a ban zone. Isn't the Social Democrat rapporteur afraid that with this bill we are in danger of hitting awkwardly, so we are going to see that a group of boys on their way to scouts who are just standing somewhere talking a little too long, risk being hit by this bill, where we really don't think it was a good idea and that we are going to have a discussion about all these minor imbalances, which are then reflected in cases where we really do not think it was intention? Is the Social Democrat rapporteur not afraid that these uncertainties will mean that we are going to miss out?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140355	No, actually, I'm not worried about that. I'm not worried that a group of boys on their way to scouts waiting for a S-train in their scout's uniform will get a ticket for that. It is clear that a residence ban, as has also been outlined, must of course be marked. But I am not so nervous about it, and if it develops in a way that is not the intention of the legislation, then it is, as with all kinds of other legislation: then you have to look at it. But I'm not so worried about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140428	Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140431	But does the rapporteur not think that there is a real risk that if, for example, there is a risk that there will be a risk that there will be a risk to the environment? You don't have a sign, do you? You miss the fact that this is a ban zone? And then, of course, the bill says that you have to be punished anyway. It may be that the penalty is reduced because there is an opportunity to look at it a little attenuating, but it does give a penalty. Does the rapporteur really think this is a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140458	Yeah. Otherwise, I think it would be a bad idea to table the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140503	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140507	Thank you. We also share in the Enhedslisten the concern that this bill is very unconcrete, and we also take note of the consultation answers and all the votes that say that it is actually a violation of freedoms. We are very concerned about that. After all, we share, what can we say, the support for solving problems of insecurity, but can the Social Democrats' rapporteur not confirm that the police today have the opportunity to remove individuals who create insecurity? I am convinced that those opportunities were introduced with the last two gang packages. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140549	If we take the group of boys I talked about before, who sit on a bench terrorizing an area and as such are not actually caught selling hashish or anything else, but in reality are just harassing, then it is true that you can get hold of some people and also pursue them to harass or make threats or other, but the fact is that there are plenty of areas where there is insecurity, because there are groups that hang out and sit down in an area, and they are in a grey area of this, and that is among other things. Some of those we want to hit with this bill, that is, simply create zones where you cannot settle in and sit permanently in an area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140626	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140628	There it is, then, that the rules are exactly the same today that those people can be removed. But if this bill is implemented, it suggests that when it is implemented, it will be so that if you close down, for example. Nørrebroparken in Copenhagen off because there are some insecure people, such as: selling drugs next to the playground, and I totally agree with that is insecure, so no one can stay in Nørrebroparken, even in the playground, and so it is all the people who want to use Nørrebroparken, and that is why it is a very serious violation of our freedoms, we believe in the Enhedslisten. That is why I should just like to ask the rapporteur once again whether the rapporteur can confirm that the police today have the opportunity to eliminate precisely those people who are insecure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140721	Well, it's clear that if you're selling drugs, it's quite illegal. I can fully confirm that, and the police have an opportunity to arrest you for it. If someone is hanging out in an area and harassing people, it may well be that you can ultimately pursue some of them for harassment and threats and all sorts of other things, but unfortunately we see that this is the case today, that there are areas where a group of young people have sat down in this area and control it and are creating great insecurity, and where this can be one of the tools to ensure that security is restored, which should, of course, be a right for all citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140759	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323140825	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Justice for addressing the insecurity that we, among other things, have. have read about in recent weeks are around society. It happens in different ways that it is addressed. The first part of the proposal is that people convicted of nightlife violence may be sentenced to an additional penalty, after which they may not be in the nightlife for up to two years, rather popularly speaking. I have to say here that this is a provision which is described in a judgment. It is a provision that has been produced in court. As I have said, it is described in the judgment, explained by the judge after the conviction, and it is therefore quite clear to the person who has been convicted that he has received an additional sentence, according to which he must not be in the night life under the conditions laid down in the law. The draft law uses a sentence stating that it should be deliberate or grossly negligent that he has now happened to have come out into the nightlife. I have to say that I think that the risk of being in a place that will be covered by this law is, of course, where alcohol is poured out. There is nothing about it being deliberate or grossly negligent. One hundred per cent is aware that he must not be in that place, and that is why he should be judged. The question then is what the penalty should be. There I see from the proposal, as Mr. Peter Skaarup mentioned that it is charged at 10,000 kroner. I have met a lot of these people, and there are plenty of people in general who do not pay their fines, and I think that if this is to have a preventive effect, first-time misconduct should be charged for a prison sentence. There will be an amendment on that from the Left if it does not come from the government. That is the one element. The second element is a safety ban on residence in certain areas. That is not the case, and I have to say that people are forever forbidden to enter a particular area. This is something that can be done for 30 days at a time by the police, and as far as I understand only in the evening and night hours. It must be published so that it is clear to people that you are in an area where this rule applies, and it is assumed that it is published on the police website, on social media, via press releases and through signage. Here I have to agree with Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt that, as the draft law is drafted, even in cases where there is no sign or bad sign, we can still be convicted. I do not think that is entirely satisfactory. I certainly recommend that we change it. If the police take out such an area here, it must be a minimum that the police clearly and clearly signal to everyone that it is an area that may be threatened by being in danger, at least with a danger of punishment. And there's about the same penalty as I said before, that's a no to that one with 10,000 kr. Fine. If so, it must be a prison sentence. The third element of the proposal is that the police can seize valuables when they confront a person and see, for example, that they have large gold chains and the like. I have to say that this is something we have missed. To date, it has been the case that such items could be seized for the safety of certain things: legal costs, fines and compensations, and, of course, if it is a criminal profit. But this must apply to all public debt. So if someone owes public money, you shouldn't be running around flashing gold and diamonds. So that's a perfectly natural rule that we should have had long ago. The fourth and final element of the bill is that negligent manslaughter in driving madness must lead to the expulsion of foreigners. I can say that the Left also agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323141300	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323141306	Yes, thank you to the rapporteur on the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. And now I am trying to bring out the liberal ideals of freedom in the rapporteur and in the rapporteur's party, because the rapporteur's party has been very good at, among other things, the last year. together with the Radical Left to address a large number of the restrictions on freedom that we have seen here in the Corona situation, in relation to the far-reachingness that has been there. And some of that stuff, among other things. It has been, was this residence ban that was introduced on Iceland's brews last year, and with this bill it is so proposed to make it permanent, so that the police can introduce it outside of a corona situation when it has to do with security. I would therefore just like to ask the rapporteur what has done, that the Left now supports this action. And then I would like to ask whether, as with other actions of this nature, the Left will at least help to put in a sunset clause that needs to be evaluated with independent assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323141407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323141412	I have to say that I share my Socialist colleague's surprise at what this has to do with the covid-19 legislation. I hope and believe that this is a proposal that would be put forward, whether or not we had this epidemic. The proposal is therefore justified by insecurity; not in anything related to covid-19, but in general insecurity. We have read a great deal about this, and I therefore welcome the fact that the Minister for Justice is trying to do something about it in the form of this proposal, so I simply cannot follow the radical rapporteur in this area. We must create security, and if we are to create security in Denmark, then we also have to have rules and penalties that enable the police to investigate and that the courts can punish those who do not want to give us the freedom that we are entitled to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323141501	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323141503	I do not think I was given an answer to my second question, so I would like to repeat that: this is because I know that the Left is very concerned about the fact that when you make restrictions on freedom, you build sunset clauses. We have had a very good and fruitful cooperation on this in the past, so I would like to know whether the Left will be prepared for an evaluation where independent assistance will be given to look at the impact of this, including the balancing of the interests of the Danes' freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323141531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323141533	Well, no one can be against an evaluation is a proposal, and neither are we in the Left. However, in view of the fact that it had to be equipped with a sunset clause so that it would automatically cease, I can only say that so many proposals here in the Danish Parliament would have to do so. So I do not see any reason for that, but I should like to respond to the radical rapporteur in this area that an evaluation of the proposal at some point would then be a natural thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323141559	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323141632	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we have looked at this proposal with a great deal of interest, because it meets some of the conditions we have to ensure that action can be taken against what is called insecure behaviour. What we have been focusing on when assessing this proposal is that you tighten the screw against various forms of crime, and we in the Danish People's Party are always in favour of it. But there is also a difference between parties, and there is no doubt that the government and the Danish People's Party are looking in the same direction, but the funds the government would like to spend may not be so much in agreement with. We simply do not believe that the tools taken out of the toolbox are strong enough. It's a very complex bill. There are four main elements in it, and that is basically how you see it when you look at it that it should actually be four different proposals. These are all important elements, of course, which we should not deal with in one legislative proposal, and we could, of course, call on the government to consider, even in the future, whether we do not want to participate in a division, so that we can take some of these proposals separately. In the short speaking time available, I would like to focus a great deal on the so-called'residence ban'. It is proposed that this should only apply in the period from midnight to midnight. 5.00, in paragraph 1, and I would like to say that we would like it to apply 24 hours a day. For why should someone who has caused trouble in Nyhavn or in Mjølnerparken at night have the opportunity to conduct himself in the same way on a summer day down noon, when there can be unsafe activities as well? We do not believe that, in this situation, access to the area should not be allowed if such activities have been pursued. Nor do we want the residence ban to be restricted to places where there is serving. For example, kiosks are kiosks. not a part of it, and we would rather see that it was seen more widely where it is that the individual has caused trouble and where it is then that he must have a residence ban, not within a certain period of time, but all the time. We must then discuss whether he or she behaves so well at some point that he or she can be deprived of the residence ban and then be in the area in question in full. Then there is also something very essential, we think, in relation to this, and it is incredibly important that sanctions should be felt immediately. In other words, if you have a residence ban, it is no use that there is a long, long period of proceedings in the courts that you have to go through before you can assess whether or not you have to have some sanctions. It has to be lightning fast, and it has to be sanctions that work. And now we have mentioned it a little earlier: it is clear that if you get a fine as a criminal, if you have violated a residence ban, you have done crime, and then you get a fine for it and you don't pay the fine, that is the problem. We see plenty of examples of this. We see plenty of examples that it's the same groups you fight around, for example. in a ghetto or in an urban area, which stands in certain places and which gets one fine after another for everything else but does not pay it. So this belief that fines have an effect on this group is very naive with our eyes. That is why our call to the government is for a good initiative on a residence ban and we want to develop it, so to think about the sanctions. After all, the Danish People's Party is probably not decisive for the adoption of this proposal, but our clear call is certainly that on the basis that we may have in the service of a common cause to ensure calm and peace at a S-train station or in a park or in a residential area, it is incredibly important that the sanctions that you encounter if you break the rules are some who play, that is to say, something you respect. And I don't think you have any respect for a fine you traditionally don't pay anyway. Our call is to spell out completely, to break the residence ban, to burn down in the form of a prison sentence, and if you are not a Danish citizen, it is out of the guard; then we will not have the person in Denmark. And I think it was a little thin what came from answers here before from the Socialist rapporteur, because it was such a thing that now there was one tool, and then you will look at the toolbox again at a later stage when you have assessed whether it has worked. So, quite frankly, we know what kind of groups they are, who violate all laws and regulations time and again and who want to violate this residence ban, government, so let us now, once and for all, make sure that this is something they respect, that is. If you are not a Danish national, you should be entitled to a period of imprisonment and expulsion. That's the call.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323142154	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323142200	I will start with the last point made by the rapporteur. The rapporteur said something about the fact that we know which people or target groups this bill is aimed at. There I would just like to hear the rapporteur elaborate on which target groups and people this proposal is aimed at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323142216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323142217	I really think the Prime Minister said this very well, both in connection with the summer group meeting held by the Socialists, but also in relation to what was said during the opening speech. We had then waited for what came of initiatives, and I think it was said so freely: we will not put up with insecure groups at our train stations. That is what was said there, but now we are talking in March, and if this proposal can be adopted with some success by the summer, then there will be an entry into force thereafter. So that means that it will be a year or more quickly in relation to hitting the groups we are talking about here. And what kind of groups are these? Well, these are some groups I think, sir. Kristian Hegaard knows them, no, sir. Kristian Hegaard did not typical of second generation immigrants, who have the urge to dominate an area, sit down in an area. It's their area... it can be a center, it can be a place, it can be a S-train station... and that's what people are afraid of. People don't want to be there when they're there. These are the groups we are talking about here, and these are the groups we have to deal with and where I think there has been a little slowness per hour on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323142329	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323142330	In this way, the rapporteur says that there is a discriminatory side to discrimination in this draft law, and I think that is also deeply worrying. What I would also like to ask is that last year we saw this story from Islands Brygge, where a woman with a stroller had a little difficulty in seeing where the signage was with regard to the residence ban there was, and what is planned here, is that, the second time you break it, even if you have no intention of doing so, you can have 30 days in prison. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks it reasonable that the woman with the stroller, who is just having a little difficulty in getting around and who has not had the courage deliberately to break this residence ban, should go to prison for 30 days, the second time you break it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323142415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323142417	Now I don't know if Mr. Kristian Hegaard has read the bill. Well, I guess so, sir. Kristian Hegaard has, and I think we must be able to say that this bill is not about corona, but that this bill is about the normal situation, where there are some young people, typically second-generation immigrants, who can also be Danes in such a group there for example. sit on a train station and create very, very great insecurity for those who are in the area. They don't want to be there, not even during the day, but especially at night. Why can't we talk straight about it? Yes, because this is a huge problem, a huge problem for the law-abiding section of the population, and we must tackle this with something that works, sanctions, immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323142500	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323142527	Thank you for the floor. In fact, I agree that there may be problems with groups of people who create insecurity in public spaces. Whether it is groups of minority young people, as it is in Kolding, who are driving around the railway station especially here under corona, probably because it is difficult to be anywhere else or whether it is alcoholics who sit and shout and argue on a bench in a park, I think that although in principle there may be peaceful groups that just fill up a lot, there are others who are becoming insecure they simply experience the situation as insecure. And it cannot be the case that the vast majority do not dare to take the train or walk in the park with their children, because there are few others who use the area in a way that makes it inaccessible to them. In fact, I also agree that an emergency solution may be that then you have to move the few over the many. And I also agree, in fact, that if you have committed violence in a tavern, it is fine that you are kept out of the nightlife for a while. The victims simply should not fear running into the perpetrator shortly after they were beaten by the same person. I think it is intimidating, and it must never be the victim who should give way. But then the consensus on the government's proposals will stop. It's fine that you stay out of the night when you get a verdict. There is, of course, legal certainty in this because a judgment has just been handed down. There is, of course, a risk that the person will go elsewhere. There are also private parties and events, etc., where you can participate in parties, but the organised nightlife I think should be on the basis of the majority. And I can be a little worried about law enforcement here, because how will it be effective when we virtually never see our police in the nightlife anymore? There was once at least when I was young, and there are some who would think that it was many years since the police came around regularly. They simply went from the tavern to the tavern, and it gave them a sense of security, and of course it did so that they could spot those who were not supposed to be there or keep an eye on them. But I just don't see them doing it the same way anymore. So this could be a blow to the air, I think, and then I almost think it would do more harm if those concerned saw that it was without consequence. What we cannot support in the SF is that we give the police a general opportunity to issue such a residence ban because we think it affects people in general. After all, we think we should use the tool we already have, which can shape individuals who cause trouble, access to space, because in the way it is arranged here, we bother the majority in order to hit the few. I also think that the problem is that there is rubber band in meter size, and that is widely criticised in the consultation answers. There are, in fact, so many ambiguities that we risk hitting wrong and wrong, and there is also a low level of legal certainty, and I think that is unacceptable. So I wonder if we are not going to see examples such as this. Three kids on their way to sports, who are going to stay in the wrong place, and vagina, there are big fines for them. I believe that there is a risk that we will be ridiculed as legislators because we cannot find a way of hitting it properly. There is a need for a clearer definition of when an area is insecure; there is a lack of a definition of what it means to stay in the area in a way that does not have a natural connection with the nature of the area, and it is only the task of the police to estimate it; it should be made clear how much inconvenience one or more people in a group have to cause in order that the police can actually issue a residence ban; there is a risk of arbitrary application of the paragraph, which creates a vague legal situation when you leave such an estimate to the police; there is no possibility of appealing against a residence ban or appeal which is indeed a matter of good legal certainty; and there is a possibility of punishing people even if the sign has disappeared and they do not have a chance of knowing that there is a residence ban. So it tells me that here is put in the stove to legislation that can cause major problems afterwards. And SAND, who is the organization of the homeless, points out precisely that with the zoning legislation we created very great problems for traditional homeless people, even though it was not intended and that this legislation has in principle the same built-in risk. And I think we should actually listen to that, but I know that this is hardly going to happen by a majority. In the course of the committee's work, I would ask the Minister to explain how we can avoid ethnic profiling with this bill. We already know that our minority citizens are more exposed to the unjustified interest of the police, just because they have a different skin colour, and it must not be the case that just because there are minority young people in Down Jackets, they are regarded as insecure simply because they are minority young people. Now I can see that I have used up my speaking time, but I would just like to say that I think we could have been involved in the expulsion and I think we could have been involved in the debt recovery, but overall we in the SF cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323143105	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323143149	Thank you for the floor. Then came what many of us feared. The Corona measures applied during the Corona period have proved to be too tempting for the government, and now they are being permanently incorporated into the legislation. The residence ban, which in general should just be a temporary tool in a time of crisis, is proposed made permanently as a tool for the police. It seems that the government has become a little too fond of the anti-freedom Corona measures, and by wrapping them into the word security, the first Corona action is now permanentised. The woman with the baby carriage at Islands Brygge, whom we heard about last year, is now at risk of 10,000 DKK. she is fined, and the second time she goes to prison for exceeding the general residence ban if it is introduced. I don't see how it creates more security. Let us go after the criminals and not restrict the freedom of thousands of Danes. The general residence ban, which otherwise only the most critical time in the first pandemic in 100 years could trigger on Islands Brygge, is suggested here to be triggered by a group of down to two to three people who are wearing certain clothes or are noisy. It doesn't make any sense. It is not even a requirement that the behaviour shown is criminal, it is not a requirement that there are residents in the area who have specifically expressed insecurity, it is not a requirement that a warning has been given before, and there can be no judicial review of the residence ban when it is established, and it is not clear whether demonstrations are covered by the residence ban. That should be corrected. In other words, it is one of the biggest permanent interventions in the Danes' freedoms for a long time, and such interventions should be accompanied at least by a sunset clause with independent evaluation. Yesterday we received an e-mail with strong criticism from international human rights institutes, and this is quite the wrong way to go, it is a human-righteous scandal. Actions like this should be based at least on professional recommendations. One would think that there had been a residence ban on experts in this proposal, because they are completely absent, or it is just because it is a bad idea that no professional experts are behind. Then there are three other proposals that I would like to address. First of all, the ban on entering the nightlife. Nowadays, according to the Act of Restaurants, people can be banned from going to certain serving places when necessary, and in future, with this proposal, the courts will be able to ban stays at server sites and nightlife zones during the period at 2 p.m. 24-05, if crime is committed in connection with the nightlife or the movement here. It can then happen up to 2 years or for at least 3 months. We have thus seen sympathy for this, for the logical consequence must be that if you cannot control yourself in the night life with violent behavior, you might want to stay at home. But we would basically like there to be a professional justification behind it and not a more politically based one, because we are concerned about this tendency of additional punishment when you have endured your initial conditional or unconditional punishment. However, as we also see in the hearings that the Crime Prevention Council sees elements of nightlife violence, we may, after we have asked questions in committee, consider voting yellow to this proposal if there is a possibility that it could be divided. Then there is the proposal to extend access to the seizure of valuables. Today, it is limited to some of the things that can be used as part of gang recruitment, these are status symbols such as expensive jewelry, watches, cars, clothing or mobile phones, and it can be used as something that makes it seem exciting to enter the criminal environment. Since what is already excluded from the law on justice, with items necessary to maintain a modest home and a modest standard of living for the debtor and his household, the Radical Left will in fact also enter into this part of the bill after a thorough committee procedure, and we can then land to vote for this part of the bill if it is divided because it can influence and stop recruitment, and because on the other hand there is also a limit to what can be seized of particular importance for the maintenance of the home. With regard to the expulsion rules, I would just like to say briefly now that time is running out, that we are less positive about this, because it is very much about the stairs model, which is where you look at the relationship between length and stay and the punishment you get. Overall, we do not support the bill, but we would like to see it divided into these three, four elements. However, the proposal for a residence ban is a huge violation of the rights of innocent Danes, and that approach cannot be supported by the Radical Left, because we should not make corona restrictions permanent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323143740	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur to be prepared is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323143802	Thank you. Over the last few weeks, the debate on the insecurity of women has rolled over, and we absolutely must take it very seriously. Unfortunately, this security package that we are discussing today is not aimed at the insecurity that you can feel as a woman when you go home alone at night. This package is designed to help those people who unfortunately experience insecurity when they travel at S-train stations, in parks or other places where they live. Although crime is generally falling in Denmark, unfortunately there are people who experience insecurity. I fully acknowledge that. That the proposed amendments to this bill will have no real effect on insecurity, I think it is really, really a pity. This is also pointed out in almost all the hearings. In particular, the proposed residence ban, which the Prime Minister mentioned at the opening of the Folketing, is of particular concern. Basically, we want to give the police the opportunity to impose a residence ban on everyone if they consider that a small group of people in the area have a behavior that creates so-called insecurity. It is not, therefore, a question of the police acting on the basis of actual criminal offences, but of the fact that the ban on residence is based on people who, simply by their presence, are creating insecurity. I think most people remember that the Prime Minister in his opening speech described it as young boys at S-train stations with dune jackets and gold chains. The police today, as we know, have plenty of tools in the toolbox if they consider that there is particular reason to pay attention to a particular area or to certain people. They can introduce visitation zones and they can issue zone bans for individuals who cannot then stay in certain areas, and they can prosecute those who commit crime. With this bill, it will be the case that when you have to hold a social commitment this summer, for example. A student party or a birthday party outside, of course, because of corona, in the context of the ban on the assembly, there is a risk that it may be illegal, simply because a residence ban may have been imposed. That is, for example, the case. It is not unthinkable that the police should introduce a residence ban in Nørrebroparken in Copenhagen, where there is both a huge playground, there are plenty of people staying there quite quietly and peacefully, and there are many people running through the package. Unfortunately, there are also very few boys, young men, who commit crime and sell things that are not to be sold. If selling hashish is an insecurity-building behaviour, unfortunately, it is not clear from the very broad definition in this draft law, but I can nevertheless assume that it may be something like this that we are talking about. This would mean that, if a residence ban is imposed, no one can use Nørrebroparken any longer, even though the police today have the tools to remove this person who commits something illegal and creates insecurity by, for example, to sell hash or other drugs. It's just to brush it out, because the government hasn't bothered to do that in the bill. It's a very broad definition, which the hearings also criticise. Unfortunately, the draft law does not state whether demonstrations are excluded or whether the security package here allows us to say that there are simply places where we can no longer demonstrate or dissolve demonstrations in places where there should be a residence ban. We shall be asking for this to be clarified in committee. It may also be that the Minister can do so even today from the platform. When you read the consultation answers, you can also see that many of the organisations working on human rights are very critical. There was a time when we in Denmark regarded human rights as important, and that was what made us a pioneer country in many areas, that is, that we had so much personal freedom, but also respected human rights and took pride in respecting them. Today, unfortunately, the government is not focusing on how we can respect human rights... at least not with this bill. It seems as if you are focusing more on how to modify them so that they do not stand in the way of someone, I must say unsavory and coherent immigration policy. Because, like the SF rapporteur, we have a very great deal of concern that this bill will increase ethnic profiling in the police. We know that it already exists; we can see that when we look at charges and which places are charged and sentenced. The Enhedslisten cannot support this bill and we are going to raise some of our concerns in written questions and in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323144336	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323144414	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Minister for Justice for presenting this bill, which aims to relieve areas in Denmark that are plagued by hard-boiled criminals and groups of young people who create insecurity. When someone is acting insecurely, committing violence in nightlife or driving madness with killing as a result, we need to take action with a ban on residence, seizure of valuables or expulsion of criminals. We are always on the side of the victims, and it is not acceptable for people to feel insecure about walking and staying in certain areas or in the nightlife because groups of young men, in particular, display threatening and dominant behaviour. Nor can it be right for parents of teenage children to drive their children to and from friends and acquaintances because they feel insecure at night. That is why we must be able to ban people convicted of violent attacks in the nightlife from having access to nightlife for up to two years. In addition, the police must have the opportunity to issue a general ban on residence in a particular place so that we can take action against those groups of people who create insecurity in an area. When a foreigner is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of liberty for negligent manslaughter in connection with driving madness, he must be able to be expelled from Denmark. So all in all, we support the bill. At the same time, we also believe that we should listen to what the rapporteur on justice, Preben Bang Henriksen, said about sanctions. This applies, among other things, to: the fact that the infringement of a residence ban requires intent or gross negligence. The person has received a verdict stating that he must stay away from the nightlife, and then there must be no more demands. The second point raised by the rapporteur from the Left was that it seems a little strange that perpetrators who have been sentenced to a residence ban and who, for the most part, cannot pay the costs already imposed are penalised by a fine for subsequent infringements. The third point that has been made was that the violation of the general ban on residence is also punishable by a fine which is not too good either. So if you take those comments with you, we are totally in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323144654	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And the next person to be ready is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323144717	The Danes must be able to live and move safely, even in the nightlife. Decades of failed immigration policy have led to a violent betrayal of our society. Women are raped, men are beaten or stabbed on open street. Everyday the rudder has come to Denmark. In the statistics on violence, immigrants and descendants, especially from Muslim countries, are extremely over-represented. The same applies to rapes. Statistics from Denmark show that 43%. of all rapes committed in 2019 have been committed by men of foreign origin. And if we look at the figures for assault rape alone, it looks even worse: In 2018, B.T. document that 10 out of 12 rapes were committed by foreigners, immigrants or descendants. It is totally unacceptable that there are groups of young men with an immigrant background who, in their domination, terrorise and create insecurity in our society. It has to be stopped. The Danes must have freedom and security back. The draft law we are discussing today addresses these problems to some extent. The bill will introduce rules to ensure that persons convicted of violent attacks during the night are unable to move and stay in the night for a period of up to two years. The draft law will introduce rules allowing the police to issue a general ban on residence in a particular place to which there is general access if a group of persons exhibits behaviour that is suitable to create insecurity for residents and passers-bys. The bill will extend the right to confiscate valuables from suspects, so that public debt is generally covered by seizure access. Finally, the bill will amend the Aliens Act in order to ensure interaction between the criminal law provisions on dangerous driving and the alien law's expulsion rules. New citizens support the bill, but we agree with the parties who are calling for any areas which are subject to a residence ban to be clearly marked. And, as in many other legislative proposals, we lack a more consistent approach to the basic problem. Of course, it is not enough for foreigners who engage in everyday terrorism in an area by violating a residence ban to be fined or for foreigners convicted of violence and rape to be allowed access to nightlife alone. Foreigners who commit crime in Denmark must be deported and fully formed access to Denmark. New citizens will be tabling amendments on this, and we hope, of course, that a majority in this Parliament will support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323145018	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323145035	Thank you. The draft law here contains four main points and we would very much like to vote in favour of the three of them. There has been a good and thorough argument for the three points from the platform, and I do not need to add any more. However, the fourth point raises some problems. It is the proposal that in certain areas of Denmark a general residence ban should be issued for all people who would like to stay in the places. We think this is a declaration of failure. We have a police in Denmark to maintain order if the police do the job and patrol in the areas where there may be riots that make people insecure, then you can do the job in that way. You have the tools for that, and you should also have the resources for it. The starting point in Denmark, or not the starting point, but the court in Denmark, I would say, is that you have the right to stay anywhere in Denmark you want, without any restriction. Denmark is a free country where you have to move around. If you cause trouble and trouble, the police can come after you. Here you turn it around and say: there are some who have caused unrest and trouble in a certain place, so now the right of all Danes to stay in that area is curtailed because the police don't even bother to try to create order in that place. We don't like that. We also see, like Mrs Rosa Lund, the danger that popular areas near urban settlement, which over time have been dominated by unrest and gangs, are suddenly being banned for ordinary people because the police do not bother to prioritize the resources to maintain order in that place. It is to give the police an opportunity to do just something that is easy for the police, instead of doing what the police should do and which may be a little more difficult. So if that is the part of the bill being maintained, we will probably have to vote against the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323145319	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323145323	I would just like to thank the rapporteur very much, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen, to uphold the liberal freedoms by saying "no" to this residence ban. Now, of course, in this debate, there have been other rapporteurs who have said that different things should not be mixed up, etc., but does the rapporteur not agree that the general residence ban proposed in this legislation has similarities with the general residence ban which the police have temporarily had the opportunity to issue in the corona situation, for example on Islands Brygge?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323145402	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323145405	Yeah, it has some similarities. Now I do not remember how the Radicals dealt with the temporary residence ban in Corona law. I could fear that Mr. Kristian Hegaard now returns awfully and says: Why did you support the temporary ban? If that is what is at stake here, then I would just like to say that the corona epidemic for us was a great surprise and gave rise to us doing things quickly that we might not always have done if we had not been taken on the bed in the same way by a new epidemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323145445	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323145448	Thank you for that answer. It was by no means my intention to ask a follow-up question of the nature mentioned by the rapporteur, but it was just to illustrate that it was a very special case, a very special intervention, which was chosen during a period of crisis during a pandemic, which was first seen in 100 years, and that there may then be a concern that such initiatives would start to be launched, in which case there would be fear over where there was previously a corona. Does the rapporteur not think that it is also a particular concern that we should all be aware of?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323145518	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323145520	Yes, and this shows that the famous slippery slope that is sometimes spoken of in Danish politics can be real and existing: if you take one step out of a place, it will lead to the habit of getting the political majority and the population to go that way, even in situations where the seriousness and necessity of doing so is less urgent than it was when you took the first step.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323145548	Thank you to the rapporteur. Can I possibly persuade the rapporteur to spritze off? Sir. Ole Birk Olesen Yes, of course). The next rapporteur is Mrs Inger Løbberg as a privateist. Mrs Inger Støjberg (Outside the Groups). Yes, outside the Groups; that's the same thing. Don't argue with the President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323145608	This bill is, in some way, a bit of a jumble of various things, but also a partial settlement of the police settlement. I myself was involved in the negotiation of the police settlement all the way to the finish line, but my then party, the Left, unfortunately chose to remain outside the conciliation, and so I had to leave the negotiations at the last minute. Personally, however, I am very much in favour of the police settlement and I am also ready to support all the legislative proposals that will bring about the police settlement. But we will probably discuss that at other times, because there are many, many good elements in the police settlement. This bill we have here today contains four different things, as several have said. Among other things: After all, it gives the police more power to issue a residence ban in certain areas. And I think we all know about it: a group of young men, often with immigrant backgrounds, hanging around in stations and other public areas, creating insecurity for ordinary people who either have to take the train home from leisure activities or from evening work. And that is simply untenable, and that is why I have no doubt that it is important for the police to be given more powers to restore security by issuing a residence ban. Another important element of this bill to create more security is when it comes to convicted of violence that has committed their crime in the nightlife. In the future, they may be banned from walking and staying in just night life for up to two years. I myself have met the victims of completely random violence in the nightlife, and for natural reasons it has made serious traces of both the physics of some of them, but also in the psyche of some of these young people, and so it is only fair that they should not meet their perpetrators again shortly afterwards, just as it must also be assumed that they can be excluded from the nightlife if they commit violence. I wonder, however, on an equal footing with the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen is aware that there must be intent or gross negligence in order to be punished for violating the residence ban in the nightlife. In other words, one has been given a judgment stating that one should not stay in the night life for a period of time, so it probably does not require the greatest thought activity throughout the municipality to understand what it really means, and that is also one of the things I will be asking about in committee. But, as I said, there are a number of elements to this bill, among others. also a proposal that extends police access to confiscate valuables from a suspect, so that public debt is generally covered by seizure access. I can support that too. And then there is the last element about insanity carism and getaway carism, and that it will actually provide a better opportunity to expel foreigners from that account. This is one of the things that has been very high on my list for a long time, so I think it is very, very necessary. That is why I am going to support this bill, although on an equal footing with a number of other bourgeois rapporteurs, I have a number of small things that I would like to discuss during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150014	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique (UFG). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150023	Thank you for the floor. Today we are going to consider the first proposal that has come from the government's so-called security package. However, this proposal has nothing to do with security. No, I would even say that it will have the reverse effect. Because when social democracy talks about security, it is only a matter of security for one particular group of people by demonising another group of people; and here, of course, I mean the demonisation of the so-called immigrant boys, as the Prime Minister has called them. But it is actually also a demonization of second and third generation dancers in general. Because although the government insists that this proposal is not discriminatory and should apply to everyone, it is exactly the opposite message that is received when you hear the public debate and when the only group referred to as a problem in the presentation and discussion of this proposal is young men with a non-Western background. If we do not support the proposal, this does not mean that we do not believe that crime should be combated and that security should be created. But this proposal is just by no means the way forward and acts as a scaremongering campaign more than anything else. Because if we really have to deal with the facts, it is a fact that there are numerous studies, both nationally and internationally, that show that the path to reducing crime is not a tightening of penalties, but preventive measures, and that increased powers and sanctions can even have negative consequences. Studies show that young people in vulnerable residential areas, with the experience of being chosen specially and discriminated against by politicians, the police and the judiciary, are in fact forming a breeding ground for mistrust, defiance and conflict, yes, as the police themselves say. As I also asked questions about earlier, the police also have some of the same concerns. The President of the Police Union, Claus Oxfelt, has now stated that the actions of this proposal are violent and he envisages a lot of confrontations. He also points out that this was a political decision and not something that was wanted by the police, who, as he says, has not been consulted on the content of this security package. Furthermore, he also believes that preventive interventions are the way forward, but instead of investing in actions that actually work, the government has scrapped 100 million. kr. Annually for preventive housing social work. So this proposal is discriminatory; it has not been requested and it is not supported by any research in this area. These are all very good reasons for voting down the proposal. But that's not actually the most important reason. The proposal must be voted down because it is a direct attack on our rule of law when it will be possible to be suspicious and punished for the actions of other people. And that the state could almost arbitrarily deprive people of personal possessions is so clear a breach of a citizen's legal certainty that I am shocked that it has been proposed in this Chamber at all. It is a dangerous slipway towards a society that is not worthy of us. That is why we must ensure that this proposal does not come into being. In conclusion, I am not the only one who has legal security concerns. There are consultation responses from many organisations such as Amnesty International, Inter-popular Cooperation, the Institute of Human Rights and the Association of Legal Affairs, as well as a chronicle of 21 researchers expressing enormous concerns about the implications of this proposal and referring to possible discrimination and restriction of rights if voted through. So my prayer to everyone in this Chamber is: listen to research, respect people's rights; and now understand that one cannot punish oneself out of the problems. I and the Free Greens would like to uphold the fundamental rights of all citizens, and we will fight to create security for everyone. That is why I look forward to the day when we see real solutions to these problems on the part of the government and not what I would call symbolic policy. In no way can the Greens vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150451	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150456	Thank you. I understand that this is discriminatory. Can the rapporteur point out where the bill says something about discrimination, in other words that it should be intended for people with a special skin colour or a special religion or a special sexuality? I mean, where's that in the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150517	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150519	There is no doubt that this is yet another legislation tailored and designed to hit a particular target group. That is quite clear. The Prime Minister was criticized for talking specifically at the summer group meeting about immigrant boys. It is quite clear, after following the public debate, that this is about hitting minority boys. That has been made quite clear. The draft law cannot state that it is about a particular target group, because then it would be unconstitutional, but there is no doubt that the whole debate up to the proposal has been about the so-called immigrant boys. It can't be more obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150601	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150617	Well, it could have been clearer if it was in the law. It doesn't. The rapporteur also says that the police can arbitrarily take valuables from people. Can the rapporteur point out where the law says, that the police can arbitrarily take valuables from people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150618	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150626	I can refer once again to the police union Claus Oxfelt, who says that it should not be underestimated that it is violent to give a young man a fine of 10,000 kroner. or suddenly seize his cell phone or take his jacket from him. That is something that can be felt, and we are not trained at all to assess whether a duvet is 500 kroner. Worth it, or if it's 5,000 kroner. worth and therefore need to be confiscated. In addition, we must also be able to prove that the young person is actually insecure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150628	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150655	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Vermund, on a brief note. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150656	Thank you. Following on from an earlier question, I understand that this is discriminatory legislation, because it will hit those who are causing the problems to a large extent, and we know who is causing the problems. Does the rapporteur really think that, when there is legislation that affects particular groups in particular, not because the legislation is discriminatory, but because special groups are more ready for violence, more rapes or more insecurity in the population, it is discriminatory? In other words, is it also discriminatory if we sharpen the penalties for rape, for example, when we now know that a very, very large proportion of those who commit rape have an immigrant background?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150740	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150741	It is deeply discriminatory when legislators say clearly and clearly in the debate that they are doing so in order to hit a special group, a special group, who are called immigrant boys. First of all, it is discriminatory to call them immigrant boys, because the vast majority of the children and these young people are born in Denmark. So they're not immigrants, they're minority dancers. So the whole premise of the debate is discriminatory, let us make it clear first. Furthermore, I do not agree at all with the premise, to which Mrs Pernille Vermund refers, that minority boys should be a particular problem. They're not. What we know is that today there is crime on Nørrebro, yes, there are minority young people, yes, but when there were no minority young people on Nørrebro, there was also crime. This has something to do with social factors, it has something to do with poverty, it has something to do with education, it has something to do with resources. It has nothing to do with minority boys, or it has nothing to do with so-called immigrant boys. That is why I do not accept the premise, and that is why it is discriminatory.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150847	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150848	But it's just crazy. When we know that 43%. of the rapes committed in 2019, registered in 2019, are committed by people with a foreign background, so it is clear that when rape crimes are punished more severely, a relatively large proportion of people with an immigrant background are affected, and if you commit everyday terrorism, if you harass people in an area, and there is a greater proportion of those harassing who have an immigrant background, they will be affected accordingly. But that is not discriminatory. It is just an expression of the fact that there are some people in our society who, on all parameters, find it difficult to conform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323150929	Again: I must challenge the premise. I do not agree at all with the premise. I find it extremely problematic to restrict freedoms because the police then have to assess whether anyone is creating insecurity. Now I'm giving a speech here from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament, and Mrs. Inger Løjberg and Mr. Lars Bend Matthiesen speaks down there. Does it create insecurity? Who's gonna judge that? Is it insecurity for me that they're talking down there, that they're bothering? Is that insecurity? Should the police come and ban a stay? I mean, it's not worthy of a rule of law. It should not be on people's feelings that you make legislation and restrict people's rights, and the Free Greens will always stand up for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151014	Sir. Kristian Hegaard who asks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151016	I would just like to ask briefly whether the rapporteur does not agree that what one might be worried about regarding possible discrimination on the basis of this draft law is the wordings contained in the draft law that include that. In particular, we are talking about a group of young men, and we are talking about a ban on residence in what are called penal zones, in other words those areas where there is a double penalty in the residential areas where it is applicable. In this way, the arrow points to the fact that there are, like some certain ones, which are intended to impose this residence ban, and that is what has been criticized in the hearings, and it is doubtful whether the enforcement of it will be sufficiently non-discriminatory to ensure that the same attention is paid everywhere, rather than that it is certain. Does the rapporteur not agree that this is what the consultations point to as a risk of discrimination and discrimination in the way in which it is practised in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151118	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151119	Yes, I can fully confirm that. But for me, there is still one thing I have to get used to here in the Folketing. For a whole year now, we have been listening to a debate which was devoted exclusively to what we called immigrant boys, and then in this Chamber we have to have such a theatre where they say: Oh, but these are not the ones we are trying to hit. Hey, those are the ones you try to hit. That is what has been said over and over again in the public debate, and then you have to stand in here pretending that they are not the ones you are trying to hit. Of course it is the so-called immigrant boys who are trying to hit with this proposal. You design and target legislation to hit a particular group. It is a slippery slope, and we must stop that, because it is not worthy of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151207	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next to speak is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151224	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for those who, I suppose, are mostly positive contributions that we have heard today. One of my most important objectives as Minister of Justice is to ensure the safety of Danes everywhere in Denmark, whether at S-train stations, in public parks or in vulnerable residential areas, and this also applies to nightlife, of course. Therefore, in October, together with the Minister for Tax, Housing and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, I presented the proposal that we called "Security for all Danes." And we did so because for a long time we had seen examples of young men hanging out in public spaces and creating insecurity with their behavior. Perhaps you are being yelled at, perhaps you are being threatened or something else that makes you feel insecure in your immediate environment as an ordinary citizen, and that is not acceptable. Such behavior is an attack on the security of our society and, by the way, an insult to the community, and so, of course, we must stop it because such behavior affects ordinary people's everyday lives, makes them choose another way home from work or from school, keeps them from going out in the evening, makes them avoid taking the train at night, makes them choose the route instead of the peaceful path system. This all helps to limit the freedom of ordinary people. There is a new investigation from the Crime Prevention Council which shows that 46 per cent. the behaviour of the residents of vulnerable residential areas has changed as a result of bickering and gang activities in their vicinity. The figures are shocking, to say the least, and this also confirms the picture that there are areas in Denmark where we have a security problem. And in fact, I think that is where the dividing line is going to go in today's debate: do you recognise that there is a problem, or are you trying to define it by saying that we cannot handle it or that it should not be dealt with in this way or in any other way? I really think that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt said well when she said that the vast majority did not dare to take the train or be in the park and that this was done in the interests of freedom for them to be able to terrorise the area. And that is really the balance we are making up by saying: no, that is not the way it should be. It should not be the case that the few can be allowed to terrorise at the expense of the vast majority, at the expense of ordinary people. There have been some different comments on the bill • questions, devices, changes. For I have what you know, that the work is not necessarily completed, though I bear it rather than the high thing. That is why I look forward to the further debate on what should be made of changes or answered by questions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151553	Thank you, Minister. There are several brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151558	The minister knows my position on this matter of the residence ban. I do not know if that email has been sent to the Minister personally, but I have at least sent an e-mail in which the Minister is also mentioned in the address field. It has been sent by a number of European human rights institutes and organisations interested in human rights. They are very problematical about this general residence ban, which will be issued by the police, with the possibility under the new, namely Article 6c of the Police Act. Therefore, I want to hear how the Minister feels about Denmark becoming a frontrunner in this way of restricting the personal freedom of movement of people in Denmark and whether the Minister is willing to take a possible procedural risk if it proves to be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151652	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151653	That is a good question, because it is the government's clear assessment that this bill is within the framework of the Constitution as well as within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. So what are some freedoms or human rights being challenged? There are several people today who have said that this is going against our freedoms. The problem is that those freedoms are not in force. These are some that you imagine up in your head; which organizations make up and which you would have liked to have been there. It's just a political point of view. So, this legislation remains within the framework of the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights and therefore, of course, it does not violate any freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151736	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151737	That was an absurd answer, that is, that organisations should come up with freedoms; that they should come up with freedoms. Freedom is one of the most crucial foundations of our functioning in our rule of law, in our democratic society and so on. We're not making this up. This is something that some hold to and make sure to remind us of and remember us. So what does the Minister mean by somebody thinking of freedoms? And is it to restrict the movement of innocent Danes to give them more freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151816	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151817	Well, you just can't argue and say that this is against freedoms if you can't point to freedoms that are contrary to them. If this bill is within the framework of the Constitution and is within the framework of the regulation of human rights, then it is not contrary to freedoms. Then we are within the scope of political action that we have, and we can have different views on this, i.e. whether we should take account of people who want to be able to walk at the S train station, people who want to be able to walk in the park, or whether we should maintain the freedom of those who terrorise other people. I'm with the first guys.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151850	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151854	Thank you, Minister. Now the Minister says that the proposal is within the framework of the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. Then I just want to know if it makes an impression on the Minister that those he is the head of, that is, the police, but also Amnesty International, the Inter-People's Association, the Institute of Human Rights, the Legal Association, all these associations and organisations have come up with a hearing answer which actually talks this proposal down. It is fine that it is within the framework of the Constitution, but I would just like to hear what the Minister is thinking about, that so many strong associations, respected associations, associations that we are actually listening to, think this proposal is going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151950	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323151952	The most important thing in that speech was the recognition that it is within the framework of the constitution, because that means that the disagreement that exists is not legal but purely political, and that means that it will then be a question of whether we want to sidestep and protect those who are insecure about taking the train, those who are nervous about going through the park, those who are being harassed. These aren't imaginary numbers. Try to remember what I said before: 46 per cent. the behaviour of citizens in vulnerable residential areas has changed as a result of bickering and gang activities in their vicinity. It may not be where the questioner is coming, but that is where people are going, and that is where some of them that we need to protect are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152033	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152035	I just have to tell the Minister that it was a huge amount of extravagance. The Minister did not actually answer my question. Fair enough, we disagree on this. But I just think that it is fair to ask the Minister in this area what he thinks of the many, many negative consultation answers about the proposal that has come from Amnesty International, the Institute for Human Rights, the Inter-People's Association. I would just like to nuance the debate and hear what the Minister thinks about it. Everything else we've been discussing. But what exactly does the Minister think about these consultation responses from these associations? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152113	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152114	I always find it interesting to read what other people with other political opinions think. But that is not the same as changing my political stance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152129	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152135	If you have a popular urban area where people of all kinds would like to stay and enjoy the fresh air and the beautiful weather, it can also attract troublemakers. They may also find it nice to be there and dominate the surroundings. The solution is, of course, that the police patrol the area and make sure that the troublemakers either behave properly or move home to their own cadastral. That is the good solution. Of course, it is also a bit expensive, but that is the good solution, because then the good area is available to those people who can find a way to behave when they stay there. The cheap solution and the one that makes it easy for the police is to say: we simply prohibit stay in that area, because then there are no people who can be there and then there is no unrest. This has not been given an area available to law-abiding people, but it is easy, and it is cheap. I understand the Minister of Justice prefers the easy and cheap solution. We don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152238	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152240	The good solution is to provide sufficient police resources to be present. The only reason why the Liberal Alliance is not involved in the police settlement is that it was precisely not willing to provide the resources needed to increase our police force. So it sounds a little hollow that the argument is that you want the big solution, the chromed solution, when you do not want to point out how to finance it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152315	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152316	Let us say that I am proposing something super, super good and that I suggest that the funding comes from removing the daily allowances in Denmark, is the Minister of Justice opposed to this fine solution because the Minister of Justice will not be involved in removing the daily allowances in Denmark, or is the Minister of Justice simply against funding? Can the Minister, as Minister of Justice in this country, sometimes answer the questions that are being asked instead of being polemical? That would be great.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152344	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152346	I'm just trying to hold sir. Birk Olesen firmly on that policy, sir. Ole Birk Olesen's party leads, and as with the police settlement was: We want more policemen; we just don't want to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152404	Next is Mrs. Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152405	Thank you. I have two questions for the Minister of Justice. One is whether demonstrations will be exempted from residence bans. I think the Minister can give a very clear answer to that. The second question is whether the Minister shares the concern for increased ethnic profiling with this bill. We know this is happening at the police station. Several studies have shown: If you have a different skin color than mine, there is a greater risk that you will be stopped by the police without charges being filed. So these are the two questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152440	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152442	I think it lies in some of our foundations that we need to go a long way to ensure that people who want to express political opinions have the right to do so, and I really think it is difficult to imagine that it would fall under the conditions that are in place to impose a residence ban. There has been some discussion today in the Chamber about what it really needs to be done, and it has sounded like it's just random and it's just something that the police hand out if you want to and so on. But let us just stick to the conditions: firstly, there must be a group of people who behave in a manner that is capable of creating insecurity. Then there are some who have said: it is very difficult to know what is suitable for creating insecurity. Then all you have to do is read the bill's comments. It says exemplified what may be suitable for creating insecurity. The second is that this should be a suitable tool, and that means that there are also some situations where we would say that we are not doing so, because this tool is simply not suitable for achieving the objective we want to achieve. The third is that it has to be proportional. It is only if all three conditions are met that you can put in place a residence ban which, incidentally - it is just to clarify that, because it was also mentioned along the way - may not be more than 30 days, and which may, moreover, be limited to, for example. fixed time periods of the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152555	Mrs. Rosa Lund for follow-up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152555-2	Thank you. I had hoped that the Minister would say that demonstrations are always and completely excluded. I guess we're also gonna ask this question in writing. So let's not botanize it anymore. In relation to the second question: are not the government and the Minister concerned that this will be very much detrimental to the citizens we have, who have a different ethnic background from Danish, precisely because we know that this ethnic profiling is taking place with the police? Whether it's conscious or unconscious, we can take another discussion in one day, but we know it's confirmed many times that it's happening. So perhaps I should turn to the question: how will the Minister prevent this from increasing ethnic profiling in the police?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152638	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152639	However, if there is to be an imbalance, it does require that the population groups mentioned have a particularly insecure behavior. Otherwise, you will not be able to be subject to the conditions required to impose a residence ban. It is clear that if citizens with ethnic origins other than Danish create insecurity, there will of course be a residence ban within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152706	Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please allow me to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152709	I'd like to continue where Mrs. Rosa Lund left off. Can the Minister guarantee that they will not go any harder than minority young people simply because they are minority young people? That is what ethnic profiling is all about: the tolerance threshold risks being lower. We see, among other things, that it is precisely the kind of young people who have to turn their pockets over and over again in search zones, including those who have done nothing, and they are terribly provoked by the fact that, when they are otherwise law-abiding citizens, they are subjected to this time and time again. So can the Minister guarantee that the police won't go harder on a group of young people who have this behavior just because they're minority kids?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152800	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152801	I can't imagine that would happen at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152808	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152810	Well, I can imagine that would happen. I can give you another example. This is about Mrs Trine Torp's good friend, who is from Chile. He's lived here for 45 years. The other day, when he took the subway, he experienced being questioned in an enormously humiliating way by the police and having to justify his existence. He says I've lived here for 45 years. The police then demand identity papers and all sorts of things from him, and it is only because he has a different skin color than the one that is common in Denmark. So it seems, sir. Minister, and that is why I would like a guarantee that this does not mean that we are going to go harder on minority young people who are, in fact, just having a good time somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152858	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152859	It is enough to tighten it up with a single example, which I have no knowledge of, moreover, and to claim that it would then be evidence that there is an imbalance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152911	We thank the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152934	The debate is open and I will begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323152944	Well, it's a good thing I got the liquor off so I don't get myself infected! Thank you to the new citizens for having tabled the motion for a resolution. This is not the first time that we in the Danish Parliament have had a debate on what is known in popular terms as the racism clause, namely Article 266b of the penal code, and this is probably due to the fact that this is a very important subject from which the debate arises, namely freedom of expression and how best to ensure a free and open debate in Denmark. It is at the very heart of our democracy that we have a free and open debate, including about those things that are difficult, and also about those things that can hurt. I therefore agree with the proposers that it is essential that we constantly focus on strengthening freedom of expression. Having said that, however, I simply do not share the authors' analysis that we in Denmark refrain from taking part in the public debate because we fear to be punished. On the contrary, I have the impression that we have a free and open and often direct debate in our country, a debate which does not get out of the way of dealing with difficult issues and where opinions of almost any kind are expressed. I think that most people who have witnessed the debate in Denmark in recent years will agree with me on this. And so it should be in Denmark. We must be proud of our free debate, and we must be able to have room to discuss with each other in sharp terms and with cash rhetoric. We must be tolerant, but we must not be so tolerant that intolerance is completely free to play. In fact, I believe that a boundless tolerance of intolerance risks breaking down tolerance. It is devastating for the democratic debate if the arguments drown in threats, insults and demeanors due to race, skin color or sexuality or disability for that matter. That is why, in my opinion, the balance is so important. That is precisely at the heart of this, because the debate on the abolition of the racism clause is not really a debate on how and here it is the attitude of the government that we should not protect hateful and racist statements. Such expressions are intended to harm the people to whom they are directed. Hateful and racist expressions can, in the extreme, lead to violence and abuse against vulnerable sections of the population. We've seen that before in history. That is why we in the government want to preserve the racism clause. Then someone will say that this is contrary to our fundamental right to freedom of expression, but here I would just like to add that we have just had the Freedom of Freedom Commission to look at the framework and conditions of freedom of expression in Denmark, including whether the racism clause can and should be repealed. In this context, the majority of the Commission considered that the racism clause should not be repealed. The reason for this was that, in the opinion of the majority, the provision constitutes an essential safeguard against racist and hateful statements which should not be protected. In fact, all members of the Commission also concluded that it will simply not be possible to abolish the racism clause within the framework of Denmark's international obligations, including the EU legal obligations. But that is not really crucial to my position today. We do not want to abolish the racism clause because we believe that it serves a sensible purpose, international ties or not. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution, but I should like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for highlighting the importance of freedom of expression, which is absolutely essential for the functioning of our democracy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323153344	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323153346	Thank you. The Minister says that it is not about what is to be discussed, but how it should be discussed and I simply do not agree with that. Because we have the result of a case in the city court where criticism of the ideology of Islam was interpreted as racism. Fortunately, the man was acquitted in the court of law. Therefore, I have to ask whether the Minister thinks that it is okay that criticism of Islam as an ideology is contained in § 266b?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323153426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323153427	I think there are fairly good opportunities for discussing Islam in Denmark, and I myself have been one of those who, on several occasions, have thrown themselves into the discussion about this fundamentalist Islamism, which, in my opinion, is a totalitarian ideology. There is room for that discussion in Denmark. So I think we can have that discussion without having to go into something where we threaten or reproach or degrade in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323153500	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323153503	But allow me to quote: Ideology Islam is as disgusting, disgusting and oppressive and hostile as Nazism. Quote out. Exactly the quote, the sentence, was convicted of • not for direct threats, which of course are covered by § 266, not for libel, which is covered by § 267, but to compare a totalitarian ideology with another totalitarian ideology. So I have to ask the Minister again: is it not okay, in the Minister's view, to write something like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323153547	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323153548	I mean, I've had that discussion here sometimes from Parliament's platform. I simply think it is right to compare extremist Islamism with other totalitarian ideologies, first and foremost fascism, Nazism and communism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323153606	Then we thank the Minister. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323153629	Thank you for that, President. I have been looking forward very much to this debate, so thank you to New Citizens for raising it. This is the first time in my time as a legal rapporteur that we are going to discuss the racism clause in such a serious way. When I have looked forward to it, it is because in this way it is an essential part of our whole debate on freedom of expression, which we all share, appreciate and also, I think, for which Members of Parliament are fighting. After all, the right to express itself is a cornerstone of our democracy and the whole prerequisite for us to have an enlightened democracy. Back in 2006, I was chairman of the Danish Youth Council. It was then that there were some cartoons who made some drawings in Jyllands-Posten, and then thundered and banged it. There I had the pleasure I actually think it was when I think back to try to facilitate a debate about why a Danish prime minister, in this case Anders Fogh Rasmussen, cannot, must or should apologize on behalf of some Danish newspapers or cartoons. I had ample opportunity to have this debate with young people from all over the world, particularly from the Middle East, both in Denmark, but also on trips to Lebanon, Syria, the Gulf States, etc., and this is one of the most interesting things I have been dealing with in my time in youth policy and youth work, because that was the essence of what freedom of expression is all about, namely the right to express itself. But then we have the right to express ourselves racistly, to motivate hateful utterances and so on.? No, we haven't. We actually have some limitations, and that is also part of the space we have in connection with freedom of expression in Denmark. So I will always fight for the right to express myself, and we have a clear framework for it. As the Minister for Justice mentioned, we have had a Commission on Freedom of expression which has also recently looked at the issue. As politicians, we have to endure even further frameworks. We have a wide framework to express ourselves from this platform, but we must of course also tolerate that others speak in relation to us. But we also see a really boring tendency on social media and in the debate to people refrain from participating simply because the tone and voices are not just too hard, but are also approaching something that makes people refrain from participating. It is damaging to our democratic conversation when, in this way, about half of us refrain from taking part in debates on social media, because it is simply not possible to participate properly. So is this about the tone of the debate? No, of course it does not, but it is about the fact that there is a wide scope for debate and that they are narrowed down if it is so that, instead of defending the right to freedom of expression, we also defend the right for people to express themselves racistly or hatefully by removing this paragraph. Therefore, § 266b does not criminalise attitudes or opinions, but it limits how one can express oneself. In other words, the proposal by the new citizens to remove the racism clause would give free rein to an xenophobic debate with racist expressions, and I simply think this would be inappropriate for our democratic conversation and indeed for the other framework of freedom of expression. That is why, for the reasons given by the Minister for Justice, we do not support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154018	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154021	The problem with § 266b is that it is an interpretation. Because we can talk about talking racistly, but it also says that something is being felt as degrading. And that goes for a group, not a single individual, but a group's reflections on whether you feel demeaned. And that's where the problem lies with this paragraph, that it's up to the courts to judge whether this group feels demeaned or not. And there we just have to say that we live in a democracy where the conditions are, if someone says something that you feel offended by, something that you feel demeaned by, then you have the right to speak up and oppose it. But the right not to feel demeaned lies in this, namely, that it is legal, that it can then get a verdict on the fact that it is okay that you do not feel it. Does the rapporteur not see any problem with such an interpretation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154121	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154122	Fortunately, we live in a democracy, and one of the cornerstones of a democracy is the division of power, which actually came with the constitution, that is, before we actually got the modern form of democracy and parliamentarianism some 50 years later. After all, the division of power presupposes that we set the framework for legislation and that the judges then assess in each case whether it falls within the scope. And then it is quite right that if you disagree with the judgments that come, you have the opportunity to try to change the legislation, and that is what we are discussing today. However, I think that the law is good and it is clear that then we will have to discuss the judgments that are coming. And I think I have argued why I think this proposal to abolish the racism clause is a bad one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154212	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154213	There is, of course, the fact that it is a judge who has to assess other people's feelings and then has to pay them. And that's problematic. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. If I now say the word 'terrorist container' about a mosque, one can say that it is a wrong word to use; that it is not a word that one thinks is adequate. However, the rapporteur thinks that it should be illegal to say the word 'terrorist container' about mosques if we now refer to some of the mosques, such as the mosques. are many Syrians who have been in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154248	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154250	I do not have such a position on that. I think I think that there is a huge difference between the context and the context in which things are said. But I do not want to judge the individual wording here, and I do not think that is really my job either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154311	Sir. Kristian Hegaard with a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154313	What just made me sign up on the list of questions was the questioner who was there before and who, in a question like that, expressed that one could judge by what feelings a particular group has, and there I would just like to hear the rapporteur, if it is not true, that there is nothing at all about what one feels or about feelings in section 266b of the penal code, and that it can therefore give a somewhat misleading picture of what it is that the courts are actually judging by, and that it is something quite different that is like a question of deception, real reproach and not a question of feelings, since it is not mentioned in the words of the law in section 266b.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154354	That sounds right and wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154359	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen next asks with a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154403	The reality is concrete. When you are in favour of having a law or not having a law, it has some concrete results out there, and that is why I think it is worth noting that Mr. Jeppe Bruus will not relate to the concrete results of Mr. Jeppe Bruus will not abolish the blasphemy clause. There's been a verdict that you can't call a mosque a terrorist container. And I will repeat and say as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen: It is not whether you like the way to talk or not, it is whether it should be illegal to call a mosque a terrorist container. I think that Mr. Jeppe Bruus owes it to him to give the answer that yes, he thinks it should be illegal, because that is the result of Mr. Jeppe Bruus supports the fact that there must be this blasphemy clause, namely that it is declared illegal and that you are punished if you refer to a mosque as a terrorist container.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154501	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154502	I answered the question in the same way, but then I agree that the questioner may think it was a bad answer, but I replied in a way that I would not like to stand here on the floor of the Folketing and have to judge the individual voice. And I strongly assume that these statements are also seen in the context in which they are expressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154525	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154526	Well, the context is that sir. Jeppe Bruus wants there to be a blasphemy clause, and we do, and that means that if you say terrorist container about a mosque, you will be punished. That is the context, and Mr. Jeppe Bruus takes responsibility for instead of avoiding responsibility. It's sir. Jeppe Bruus' fault as one of 179 members of the Folketing that one is convicted of calling a mosque a terrorist container. Take responsibility, sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154556	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154559	That was very direct talk. I am happy to take responsibility for voting against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154606	The next brief remark goes to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154609	I actually think that both Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has some points here. We have some Danes who follow the political debate and they vote when there are parliamentary elections, they may vote when there are municipal elections and they are active in different contexts of our democracy, among others. association life, and then they experience that some of what they go and talk about at the dinner table or out at an event, they must suddenly not say because of a racism clause, and then they say very naturally to us: well, is it not your job to create a framework that allows us to express ourselves, that we can express ourselves, and that what we are talking about at the dinner table, can we really be allowed to mean in public space? But they just can't do that today, and so it is that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen says, if not an idea, that we are doing something about it and abolishing the racism clause, which helps put the pressure cooker on the political debate, which is much worse in Sweden, but it is actually here in Denmark too, because there are people who dare not say their opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154714	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154715	I do not agree that it helps to dampen the debate. I do not believe that abolishing the racism clause would mean that we would have a better debate or a more inclusive debate. On the contrary, I believe that we will actually have a more xenophobic debate and a debate which will give free rein to all sorts of racist statements, and I do not really think we will have a better and more inclusive democracy from that. Of course, we can look at this differently, and I acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154749	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154750	Listen to me: no one has hired the Social Democrat Party to be tasters in relation to whether we should have a better debate or a worse debate. We have a debate and the Danes must be allowed to take part in that debate. And then it doesn't matter what kind of debate this is really about. We must have freedom of expression and we must have the opportunity to tell us what we think of things. Now we have a racism clause next to the blasphemy law, which helped to limit that debate. So was it not an idea to do something about it and to allow us to debate freely and without hindrance?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154827	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154828	One would almost think on the basis of the question that it was something we just figured out we should have. After all, it is not. After all, we are debating whether or not to abolish Article 266b, and we think that is a bad idea. It's not really about the debate. It's maybe a wrong term to use. But it's about what kind of framework we have to express ourselves in this country. And we have a very broad framework, and we need a very broad framework to express ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154855	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323154857	Thank you. I am sitting here with 23 pages, 19 pages of which are examples of statements where people have been convicted after the racism paragraph, i.e. § 266 b, and much of it is really grossly gross, something that I would clearly prefer to know about someone, rather than that it is illegal, and so I do not know whether the people with whom I either surround myself, or who I am debating on social media or other, actually have these views. You can be for the racism paragraph because you want a proper tone. But does the rapporteur not see that this will also put a lid on a debate, making it harder for us to see what kind of people we are dealing with? I prefer we prefer to fight with an open forehead and give the Danes an opportunity to meet these people and say: This is not how you treat other people. But that's not possible when you do this is illegal. This does not remove attitudes. You just get rid of the voices. What's the point?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155008	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155009	No, we don't really remove the phrases, but with this we're setting a framework for the way you're allowed to express yourself, and that's what's at the heart of this. It is to ensure that there is a democracy where there are some rules of the game. It's clear that this is kind of a game rule for the way we're together. There we do not want to give a free hand so that everyone can fire off all the xenophobic things they want unhindered.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155039	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155040	But the dilemma here is that this legislation does not prevent people from being idiots or being xenophobic or racist; but it prevents us from seeing that we are facing an idiot, an xenophobic person or a racist. So when you put a lid on statements, it makes it harder for us to see what kind of person we are facing. Let us now get this into the light and perhaps also change what should of course be the important thing to change, namely attitudes and not phrases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155118	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155119	In fact, it is not my impression that we can see that differently today, when we have the racism clause, we find it difficult to see through who we are debating with or what they stand for or what their opinions are or what their starting point is. In fact, I think we have a reasonably free debate, and I also think that we sometimes have a fairly tough debate. I think the debate is developing in a direction on social media and other things that make it excluded for many so-called ordinary people to be part of it. So I actually don't experience the fact that it's like a straitjacket for all sorts of phrases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155150	We thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, please come up here now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155212	Thank you very much. Thank you for inviting me. That was very kind. The racism clause is certainly not unproblematic, and it is a provision that often gives rise to debate. It's been a while since we've had it. So I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for giving us the opportunity to discuss freedom of expression and freedom of expression once again. And it is good that we regularly address the important issue. See, when the paragraph was introduced back in 1971, one of our colleagues from that time said the following: "Even the foolishest views, even the most harmful perceptions, have the right to exist. It is a form of primitive moralism that we can combat what needs to be combated by criminalising it. Who said that? Poul Dam of the Socialist People's Party did. And the point of view is that it is not necessarily the most appropriate way of combating statements to criminalise them, but that it may be more appropriate to combat statements with other phrases and that the racism clause might be more damaging than it benefits. For the very purpose of the racism clause, it is difficult to disagree with the idea but whether it is the most appropriate way to promote that purpose can be discussed to such an extent. Moreover, the racism clause was extended back in 1987 so that not only is it traditionally seen as racist statements that were criminalised, but also, for example, statements directed at the sexuality of other people. The first time the case was tried was then in a case in Vestre Landsret in 1990, on the occasion of a member of the Inner Mission Emmy Fomsgaard's name she had written a letter in Ringkjøbing Amts Dagblad and Kristeligt Dagblad. She had previously said that the water level in the North Sea had risen as a warning from God because of a feature about condoms on TV. So it was a fanciful woman who should now have a case tried in the Vestre Landsret. And that was because she had written the following: Isn't a homosexual some kind of thief? Does he not steal the honor of his neighbor and perhaps his life by taking advantage of him and inflicting AIDS on him? And she continued by saying: Homosex is the most disgusting form of adultery. Well, I think these are some pretty unpleasant statements... that shouldn't be a secret. Nevertheless, the city court and the Vestre Landsret chose to exonerate her from the statements because they saw the context in which they were put. And when she stepped out of the courtroom, she was hailed with guitar and sang from her fellow believers, who thought it was a good thing that she had now been acquitted. And those who had reported her to the police... the National Association of Gays and Lesbians, as it was then called... were understandably rather disappointed in the outcome of the case. At other times we see that some are convicted of having violated the paragraph mentioned here in the debate earlier today; some have been convicted of having called a mosque a terrorist container, and they have been convicted. And there is no doubt that such a judgment will hardly make the persons concerned more friendly to neither Danish society, the judicial system nor the mosque they had looked mad at. They are given a kind of martyrdom, which means that they may in fact get even more support for their views. So the debate is important and the racism clause is certainly not unproblematic. However, the Left cannot support the resolution because we are against complete abolition. We believe that it should be forbidden to threaten others because of their ethnicity or religiousness or sexuality and other things. Serious threats, even if they are against a broad group, should be prohibited, and this would also be contrary to, among others. The UN Convention on Racism and possibly also some EU rules. So, for that reason, we cannot support the proposal. But we would think that it might be a good idea for the Parliament to ask the Criminal Code Council to carry out a study which weighs the advantages and disadvantages against each other, just as we asked the Criminal Code Council at the time to come up with a study on the blasphemy clause, which led to the repeal of it. In other words, we are proposing that we ask the Criminal Code Council to look at it. But we cannot support the proposals of the new citizens as they stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155725	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155729	Now I actually think it's all the way back to 1939, but let's just leave it at that. However, I am also pleased with the response that is actually being given by the Left to the fact that there are some problems with this legislation. For example: I would like to ask you what it says about the government wanting to add gender identity, gender expressions and gender characteristics to the racism clause, in other words the extension of the racism clause. What is the Left's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155806	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155808	It is true that it was originally 1939. It was then changed to the shape it is about to have in 1971. In other words, it is a little coincidence which groups are covered and which groups are not covered. For example, you have to. well-off and deserving people because of their political affiliation; you can do so. So you can talk really ugly about New Citizens, Left or Social Democrats; you can do that. So it's a little random, but vice versa, when you have the question of sexual orientation, it seems obvious to look at gender identity and other things. But that is not the proposal we are debating now. So I have no clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155857	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155859	No, that is not the proposal we are dealing with here, but it is an expression of the problem of § 266b: that it is watered down to become a political tool instead of what it originally was, namely to protect against threats. We still have § 266, which also guards against threats, and § 267, which guards against defamation, and then you have § 266b a little in between, where it is up to a judge to judge whether a group feels deserving or not. Does the rapporteur not see that it is problematic that a judge should be given the discretionary assessment potential?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155934	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323155935	So now I hope it doesn't surprise you. Lars Boje Mathiesen that legislation is a political tool. Well, that's why we're standing here, and that's what we're doing. But I do not agree that it is about whether people feel offended or not. In other words, this is an objective assessment. For example, in the judgment I read from before, the people who had reported it to the police felt offended, and yet the reader's writer was acquitted. So it is an attempt to say what we should be able to tolerate in the public debate and what we should not be able to tolerate. That is what the courts should do; they should not look at what people's feelings are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160023	Sir. Peter Skaarup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160025	Thank you. I do not really know whether to thank or not thank you for your speech, because the Left says that you want someone to look at this paragraph, and yes, it is, of course, a tiny step in the right direction, but we still have some citizens in this country who feel very pressured on their freedom of expression. I often feel it when I'm out for a discussion, an assembly, out in the quite country, not right now because of the corona, but when I've been it before that there's a pressure mood, compared to whether you dare write what you mean down on a piece of paper. It may be in a reader's letter, it may be on Facebook, or wherever it is. I just think that, as the Liberal Party of Denmark, the Left, one should not say precisely that one must then have a liberal, freedom-oriented view in relation to people being allowed to express themselves and express their opinion. Then you like that opinion or not, and then it may be a good debate or a nasty debate, but we must have the debate on an open basis, a freedom-oriented basis. Shouldn't that be the view of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160131	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160134	Yeah, but it's not as simple as that. So, the debate we are looking at on various social media, etc., is something that keeps other people from participating. But the problem is that if you only set the limit on whether or not someone is able to stay within the rule of racism, and that is, in fact, a rather strange point of view to have, because there may well be someone who writes something that is very unpleasant and not in order, etc., and which a private platform or media says they will not leave space for or megabyte space, or what it is now that they do not want it to stand, because they do not think it is right, but it may well be that it is legal that we risk the debate being conducted in such a legal form, where it may not really belong at all. So I think that the Danish People's Party should be happy with the speech, because I do not think we are going to move forward unless we really have a thorough debate on a very enlightened basis on what is up and down. It was also the case that the blasphemy clause ended up being abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160248	Thank you. Is there another brief comment? I just got here. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160255	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is quite right in saying that a media can decide for itself whether it will print the reader's letter, where there are different opinions, and if the media says that they will not print it, and that they do not think they can answer for it, then you cannot print it. But that doesn't change the fact that you should be allowed to send the letter. One must be allowed as a citizen to write what one thinks in the public debate, and that is where I assume we agree, so that there should be no restrictions in this way, unless there are serious threats. Threatening a population is another matter, but if it is a free, open debate, you should be allowed to write what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160335	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160337	In other words, there are restrictions on freedom of expression, and that is what we think there should be in the Danish People's Party. I have examples of politicians from the Danish People's Party, for example. has raised libel targets against others for something they had spoken about and with which they were unhappy. So there must be limits to freedom of expression. The question is where these limits should lie and where we are actually harming the debate, more than we benefit it, by criminalising certain phrases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160407	Thank you. I'm gonna have to ask, sir. Morten Messerschmidt about moving a little to the right, so we'll keep a little distance. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160424	What I'd like to hear, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen about is who we are. We in the Left, says Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, thinks that and that about the racism clause, but there may be different approaches to it with the liberal. I can see that in 2006 there was a referendum paper on a new programme of principles called 'Future in freedom and community', and there were at least three delegates suggesting that it should be the official policy of the Left that the paragraph on racism should be abolished. I don't know them myself, but it may be that sir. Jan E. Jørgensen knows Anders Basbøll, Henrik Fruergaard and Torben Raahede from Odense, Holstebro and Copenhagen respectively. There, it might be interesting to hear what consideration one has within the Left and how wide Jan E. Jørgensen's view in this area is wide for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160524	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160526	I know all three of them, and I also know someone named Jan E. Jørgensen, who, in his time, specializes in the University of Copenhagen, which was about the racism clause, and where the conclusion was that it should be abolished. So it is a debate that, as I started by saying, is complicated and where there are things that speak both for and against. That's why it could be a really, really good idea to ask the Criminal Court to take a look at this. Because that is an issue on which there are differences of opinion, including in the Left. It is both in the back of the Left and in the Confederal Group of the Left and in all sorts of places. We are a party which salutes the free debate and thinks it is good that opinions are broken. So this isn't a simple question, and I'm not trying to tell anyone that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160610	Sir. Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160612	That's funny, 'cause I've often thought that mr. Jan E. Jørgensen somehow at some point had gone astray. It is good to know that once you have had the banner of freedom first, and that it has only since become more what can you say polished. But, on the other hand, I think it is nice if it is something that we are open to discussing and that we are, for example. Through the Criminal Law Council can have a more broad perspective on it. What is then just the last question on my part is: does it also mean that the Left and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen will help to go beyond the international conventions which are now forcing Denmark to commit this gross violation of freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160651	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160652	I believe that at some point the Liberal Alliance put forward a proposal which had been cleared, if I may say so, so that it was compatible with the Convention, and I can then recommend that others copy it, because I think we can figure out what the answer will be if we put forward proposals that mean breaking international conventions, resigning ourselves from the European Union, the United Nations, and what I know, because that will be: we do not think that is a good idea. I think so too, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160720	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. And the next one we're gonna welcome is sir. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323160800	Today we are discussing B 51 on the repeal of section 226 b0, in daily terms called the racism clause. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we support the proposal, which I have also expressed here. We believe that there should be a high ceiling in the political debate, especially in sensitive debates. If you have a situation where you put a lid on it, we risk that the dissatisfaction, if it is, is expressed in other ways than words and by a letter of reading or an update on Facebook, or whatever it is about. So very briefly: we can, of course, vote in favour. Especially because, of course, it is a proposal that the Danish People's Party has tried to do with something similar many times in the Danish Parliament. And we haven't had that much luck. One might hope that the debate and the developments we have in society will lead to a majority in favour of this proposal at some point. Perhaps this would mean that a new discussion could then open up the possibility that we would actually have the racism clause removed. It is the case today that we have a great many places in our democracy where it is important to give the room for manoeuvre in the debate, where one can also scold one another and let the debate run, which one basically wants to have. And there it is devastating for freedom of expression if you have certain words you cannot say, or certain phrases you cannot make. And it can be small, and it can be big things, but in relation to the individual it is not the decisive thing. What is crucial is that we have a high ceiling in the debate. And especially with the development of social media, as we have seen here in recent years, it is extra important that you do not get hit in the head with something that you have come to pronounce a little wrong or in a little bad Danish. So we therefore need to allow legislation to follow developments on social media, where it is becoming more and more frequent for people to express themselves in a heated debate. So, yes to this proposal as far as we are concerned. What we often see with § 266b is that it is abused. I can, for example. notes that there was an violated radical who believed that the Danish People's Party's small advertisement was an advertisement in the DSB magazine Ud&Le, where we had rejected Islam, yes to Denmark, should violate the racism clause. As you know, it didn't, because I guess it's okay and it was okay to express oneself against Islam, if that's what you want. As a party, we can easily stand to be accused of racism. That goes without saying. We're big and strong as political parties in here in the Folketing. We are elected to have opinions, we are elected to debate, so we can manage that easily. But it is immediately worse for the public to be accused of being a racist because there is a critical attitude to, for example, the media. the fact that there is an Islamist ideology. You may be allowed to express this and you should be allowed to express yourself about it without being dragged before the court. So one should have the opportunity to be critical of a religion or ideology or whatever it is, without being convicted in court. The racism clause is used in several ways. It is being used for the direct opportunity of punishing political opponents, and there are a great many cases where attempts are being made. But the racism paragraph is also used in an indirect way, that is, where it is used to beat people in the head and say: Well, if you say that, then we're gonna drag you to court. I mean, the unspent opportunity to pull people into court is at least as mad as the used way in which you actually try to take a case. So quite simply: there is no reason to have § 266b, and therefore we are voting for the abolition of it in the Danish People's Party and hope that we can obtain a majority in this assembly. I'm convinced that if we don't get it in this assembly, we'll get it sooner or later. For the need to have a high ceiling in the debate is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161254	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161301	Thank you to the rapporteur. I just want some clarity. The rapporteur is talking about high ceilings. The rapporteur then mentions Islam and Muslims and the debate on social media. Does this only apply to the ceiling when it comes to this type of speech, or does the rapporteur think that the ceiling should be high in relation to everything and everyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161327	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161327-2	Yes, we must be able to take all the debates, and it does not need to be a good debate, as Mr. Jeppe Bruus mentioned earlier what was best. It may also be a bad debate or a sluggish debate that we can have on social media or in the Morgenavisen Jyllands-Posten, or where we now have that debate. All debates should be welcome as long as, of course, you do not threaten other people. I mean, if someone is threatened with extinction, as we have seen with people from Hizb ut-Tahrir who are threatening Jews with murder, then of course we have a new situation. But as long as it stays within the normal principles of our legislation beyond the racism clause, that debate is of course welcome, both on religions, ideologies and everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161417	Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161418	Okay, then I just need to understand something. We have, for example. Also in our legislation a paragraph about majesty insult, so it will then also abolish the Danish People's Party, so you have to be able to say anything about the royal house and the queen. That is what I hear the rapporteur say. I wonder if we can get some clarity about that. I mean, it has to be high to the ceiling, you have to be able to say what you want, as long as you don't threaten, then away with the majesty insult clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161443	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161444	Now I don't even know if Mr. Sikandar Siddique needs to speak negatively about our majesty or royal house, or who Mr. Sikandar Siddique would like to comment on. This isn't about the royal house at all. This is about the racism clause, that is what the proposal we are discussing today is about, i.e. § 266b. Do we want a high ceiling on what people are being convicted of today in connection with the racism clause? Yes, we in the Danish People's Party will, and that is why we say yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161515	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161520	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for tabling last year a motion for a resolution to add the word disability to section 81, no. 6, in the criminal code on hate crimes, so as to strengthen people with disability rights if crime is committed against the background of the victim having a disability. We are currently debating this because the government has put forward a proposal that reminds one of what the Danish People's Party put forward last year. Generally speaking, I have a great and good working relationship with the Danish People's Party when it comes to the rights of people with disabilities. This area must be strengthened, and Denmark is also obliged to do so after we joined the UN Convention on Disability in 2009. That is why I want to know whether the Danish People's Party could help us also to say that people with disabilities should not meet degrading or insulting speeches, because there was a dark spot in the history of the world where people with disabilities went to camps and were interned and everything. Will the Danish People's Party provide this protection to people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161627	Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161628	I don't like it, like Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard has been exposed to the mention of Mr. Kristian Hegaard or others with a disability in the way it has happened. I do not like that, and I think it is really bad that you are subjected to that treatment in Denmark, whether you are a member of parliament or what you are. Having said that, however, our desire to tighten the law in relation to the situation of disabled people is primarily directed at cases of violence, in other words, where the reason why someone is subjecting another person to violence is that he is disabled or where the reason why someone is subjecting another person to violence is that he is homosexual. There the Danish People's Party has said that we simply have to let the hammer fall, because we cannot tolerate exposing other people to dangerous crime because they are homosexuals or disabled people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161731	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161733	In a democratic society, we meet people equally in words and deeds, and we say no to discrimination both in words and in deeds. The Danish People's Party has made a proposal saying no to discrimination against people with disabilities and punishing it, but will the Danish People's Party also help to stop discrimination in words and say no to degrading and insulting speech to people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161759	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161800	It's not that I'm not telling you to do it. I think it's awful when I hear somebody expressing themselves like this. I am just saying that where there is a particular need, seen from my point of view and from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, is, for example, if you are going to have to. experience two people who are on their way home from the city after a happy evening and who, because of their sexuality, are being beaten down in a very violent way, by some people who cannot tolerate homosexuals in Denmark. I think that this is an aggravating circumstance, and that is what we have made clear time and time again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161836	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161840	I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he is following on from Mr Seligman. Mr Sikandar Siddique's question on majesty insults will confirm that there is no special delicacy in the Criminal Code concerning majesty insults and that the only provision is that it will result in an increase in the penalty if the crimes in question are committed against the majesty, and that Mr Sikandar Siddique's question is that it will lead to an increase in the penalty if the crimes in question are committed against the majesty. So Sikandar Siddique's question made no sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161857	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161858	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161904	I guess it was a lone swallow or is there a follow-up? There isn't. Well, then I'll say thank you to Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup. And then we welcome Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt for the SF. Here you go. Do it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323161935	Thank you. I certainly think that freedom of expression is very important to safeguard, and I also see that there is a high degree of opportunity to use it, and that we in Denmark can actually discuss difficult issues such as integration, equality, corona and everything else without putting a lid on it. In fact, I think that right now, freedom of expression has the worst social media experience, where the debate tone is really tough in these years. We run the risk of becoming a playground for the most brutal and vocal, while others withdraw because they do not want to be true in threats, abuse, harassment and hateful messages. That is a pity, I think, because then it will be freedom of speech for the few. Is the racism clause an obstacle to freedom of expression? The last time we discussed that question, it was swept aside a little under a bourgeois government and there we had to wait for the Freedom of expression commission. It has come in the meantime, and here it considers that the paragraph of racism must remain. Indeed, we have just agreed that it should be extended, namely in relation to people with disabilities. And that is why I think it would be a little strange if we were to stand here today and decide to abolish it. So, of course, we don't contribute to that in the SF. In their explanatory statement, the majority of the Commission on Freedom of expression say, among other things, that a democratic society has both the right and the duty to protect the human dignity of particularly vulnerable sections of the population and to ensure that freedom of expression is not used to threaten or degrade others or to be used in a way that threatens social peace and political stability. In their view, the majority view, harsh, racist and hateful statements can help legitimise discrimination and, over time, lead to hate crimes against certain individuals and groups. The majority of the Commission points out that many people are already abstaining from the debate, for example. on social media because they find the tone too harsh, and they actually believe that if we repeal § 266b, it will lead to even more abstaining. In this context, the Commission also notes that the many years of lively debate in the field of foreigners are indeed an example of the fact that freedom of expression lives. If the provision is repealed, it will, among other things, be repealed. be allowed to compare, they say, the protected groups with animals or dangerous diseases. Then, for example, it will. be allowed to claim that Catholics breed like rats, or that Muslims form a cancer in Danish society. And it would be allowed to make quite untrue and generalising claims about the groups, for example. Muslim fathers rape or kill their daughters. In fact, there is evidence that there is support in the population, because at least in a population survey the Commission has asked whether it should continue to be illegal to write the comment: Negroes are as stupid as monkeys. Actually, that's 70%. who don't think you should. And that is an example of degrading speech. In those words, the SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162302	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162308	Thank you. I looked at what SF's former rapporteur Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has said about this. She said that criticism of ideology should not be included in the racism clause, because it should be okay to criticise an ideology. The case is, of course, that someone has been convicted of criticizing an ideology. Does SF believe that criticism of ideologies should be included in the section on racism § 266 b?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162344	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162344-2	I would say that I do not know about the judgment in question, and that is why I find it difficult to explain my position on that particular statement today. It may well be that the paragraph of racism does not in all cases strike purely, and we sometimes see that wrong judgments, or at least judgments, are actually handed down, which one might wonder about, but in general I believe that the paragraph of racism still has a justification in our society. But I will try to look at the judgment in question on occasion and see what I think of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162420	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162421	Let us say, then, that the paragraph is not completely abolished, but that it is restricted so that it can no longer include criticism of ideologies. Would that be something you'd be interested in? So, I ask what the SF's position is: do you think that criticism of ideologies is a concept that should be included in the racism clause? Because it is at this time. So I wonder whether one would be willing to look at the fact that it was at least taken out, so that one has the opportunity to criticise ideologies without being punished on the basis of § 266b.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162452	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162453	Well, in general, it is possible to criticise ideologies as long as they do not take place insultingly or degradingly, and one must of course still be able to do so. I am not aware of the judgment referred to, so I cannot comment on the content of it. I believe that the racism clause has a justification, and the Freedom of Freedom Commission, which everyone agreed should first be allowed to make its opinion, has also said that they cannot recommend it here either in terms of restricting its territory. Now we have the recommendations, and then I think we should listen to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162529	Thank you. And the next person to make a brief comment is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162534	One of the judgments that in my optics really stands as a stepping stone in the pillar of shame of section 266b of the Criminal Code is the verdict of Randers Byret on Mr. Jesper Langballe, and I am therefore surprised that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has just mentioned it. Because here Mr. Jesper Langballe said that there are Muslim fathers, after which he referred to honour killings, but it is therefore clear that it is a quantified relationship. He does not say that all Muslim fathers, or that all Muslims do so and so, but that there are Muslim fathers who do so. But yet he receives a verdict for violation of § 266b, which, as I see it, is a clear interference with freedom of expression. Because you can't say it's unmanageable. It would have been unmanageable to say that all Muslims do this and that, but that's not it, sir. Jesper Langballe did. So I would like to hear why Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt just mentions that judgment as the example of why we should have § 266b. Can't she see that it's almost the main example of the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162635	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162637	When Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt actually mentions that particular judgment, it is because Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt reproduces the arguments put forward by the majority of the Commission on Freedom of expression. In fact, it is literally quoted from exactly the work of the Freedom of expression commission. I think that the current racism clause constitutes a fine bulwark against insulting and degrading speech, and if the court considers that it is within the dial, then of course I support the right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162708	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162709	It's that kind of incompetence that just creates insecurity for the rule of law. Because if you leave it to others to decide, and these are judges who come up with such obvious crazy sentences as these, then it is precisely that there is enormous doubt about freedom of expression. So, does Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt really think that it should not be said that there are Muslim fathers who kill their daughters? Well, try to google it; we have also had honour killings in Denmark. It's crazy that it's a felony to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162740	Yes, but now it is not such a separate Muslim problem that fathers kill their daughters or rape their daughters. I am aware of many Danish men who do, as we see in our legal system all the time. And I may not always feel that the Danish People's Party is contributing to the nuance of this debate. It's always about Muslims. I understand that the Danish People's Party is different from the SF, but we do not want to help remove the racism clause, and I think that is actually an honest political answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162813	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next one to be welcomed is the rapporteur of the Radicals, and that is Mr Beazley. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323162904	Thank you for the floor. Freedom of expression is a fundamental right of freedom, which in Denmark provides quite great protection: Article 77 of the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. That's the way it is, and that's the way it's supposed to be. However, freedom of expression is not unlimited. There may be, for example: be subject to professional secrecy. It may be doctors who are not allowed to say anything about their patients, or lawyers who are not allowed to say anything about their clients, etc. There may also be classified information of a security nature on which one cannot express oneself if one is employed by an intelligence service or the defence. It is an exception to freedom of expression, but it is justified by state security. There are also rules that do not make accusations that are libelous to others. In a democratic society, we also reject discrimination in words and deeds. Therefore, there are rules on racism and hate speech, and section 266b of the Criminal Code lays down rules on statements with which a group of persons are threatened, insulted or demeaned on the basis of race, skin colour, national or ethnic origin, belief or sexual orientation. I am pleased that after good cooperation with the government there is now also a majority to add disability to section 266b of the Criminal Code, because I am fundamentally concerned about how many people are abstaining from the debate due to hateful messages. That kind of hate speech must be put to the test, because it can lead to further discrimination and stigmatisation. It must meet zero tolerance in a democratic society. In debates there must be high ceilings, as there is in here in both the physical and the debating sense. We must, of course, be able to discuss all issues, and so can we, with harsh criticism and with junk debate. Can there be some of the judgments that have fallen along the way, one disagrees with? Yes, there can certainly be, and that is the case with the division of power. However, there are no specific issues that cannot be discussed, and so it must be. I also note that the Freedom of Movement Commission has also not found the opportunity to recommend the abolition of the racism clause, despite the fact that they have had a good and thorough work behind it. Against this background, I should like to inform you that the Radical Left does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323163148	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323163226	Thank you. I think it is no secret that there are people in Denmark who believe that racism does not exist at all and, at the risk of repeating what Mrs Pernille Skipper said during the closing debate in this Chamber this summer, there are unfortunately many examples of how our fellow citizens are repeatedly subjected to racism. The fight against racism is not something that exists only in the Enhedslisten's programme of principles or in our fine statements, but racism really exists. Stigmatisation and discrimination are some of the things that most people in this room never experience, and it's nice, but for others it's part of everyday life. For example, I was... This summer for a Black live matter show, and there were quite a lot of people for that demonstration, and that's enough because there are some people in this country who have a need and a reason to say away from racism. At the beginning of 2021 we also heard the story of a boy who was in the 9th grade at Our Afterschool and who spread on social media, and I say he went. For unfortunately, this boy was exposed to so many racist incidents from his classmates that he eventually saw no other way out of school than to quit school, because the school would not respond to these incidents. I've thought about many times since what it is that makes two 15-year-olds chase their classmate around and call him "and now I quote "slave" or "black pig" and other racist things. How do 15-year-olds get the impression that it's okay? How do they get the impression that it's okay to put on derogatory videos with such loud sound that the whole house can hear it, and not least: Why isn't someone stopping them? How do people come up with assaulting women with a scarf in a parking lot and shouting that they have to go home just because they wear a scarf? It's coming from somewhere. I think it is very simple; it does, of course, because racism exists in our society. As can be seen from this motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion are convinced that it will strengthen freedom of expression if we repeal the so-called 'racism clause'. I understand that's the motivation. I am not surprisingly surprised because we have had this debate before the very opposite conviction: it is impossible to support freedom of expression, that pupils cannot complete their education because of racism, and it certainly does not strengthen freedom of expression if people are to fear participating in the democratic debate because of the risk of being subjected to hatred and racism. As extreme utterances as those criminalised in § 266b are not necessary in order to conduct a democratic debate and have a democratic conversation in which everyone can have their views represented. In fact, the paragraph does not restrict the possibility of thinking as you like. It requires just a few to think twice before formulating their position. It is important to ask these people to think, because the criminal statements have a direct detrimental effect on our democracy. As the Freedom of expression commission has unanimously arrived at in their report, racist and extreme expressions constitute an evil which, in some cases, can lead to violence and abuse against vulnerable sections of the population and which should therefore be combated in a democratic society. For the Enhedslisten it is important that everyone can take part in the democratic debate without having to be subjected to racism or any other hate speech. We cannot have a democratic debate if we are to be subjected to discriminatory statements which mean that we are going around fearing for our lives or that we are actually not going to be able to participate fully in the debate. So I would actually say that the racism clause strengthens freedom of expression. Because it ensures that we protect those people who today dare not interfere in the public debate because they are afraid of being subjected to hatred and discrimination. We in the Enhedslist do not compromise on freedom of expression. Therefore, we were also banner leaders for not having a blasphemy clause in Denmark. Because we have it in the Enhedslisten that legislation must protect people, not gods, and this paragraph protects people, and therefore we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323163737	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323163741	To that extent, I agree with much of what Mrs Lund says about racism in Denmark. That is why it has to be said that the provision in question in the criminal code certainly does not have the desired effect. Then you might ask: is the intervention that this is about freedom of expression proportional to the apparent failure to achieve the objective that Mrs Lund wants? I remember, for example. now, when Mrs Rosa Lund mentions the so-called "Black Lives Matter" movement, how their forewoman, Bwalya Sørensen, performed in dividing assemblies into brown and white, so that the whites should stand in a certain place and the browns somewhere else. I would just like to ask whether Mrs Rosa Lund does not agree that this is such a very good example of racism in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323163834	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323163836	No, I do not think that is an example of racism being found in Denmark at all, certainly not. I can cite so many other examples which show that racism exists, as I also listed in my speech, and which I actually often and often wish to see, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt relates.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323163854	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323163855	Then we'll try another case. On the other day you could read a big debate on Facebook that 10 out of 12 of the rapes committed in Denmark are committed by people with a different ethnic background than Danish. One of the debates that followed was about how many of their victims are Danish and how many belong to the same cultural background as the perpetrators themselves. I don't remember at all when I've heard of, for example. one of the mass rapes that are sometimes committed by Arab boy gangs, that the victim has then been from their own cultural community. Does Mrs Rosa Lund agree that this is an expression of racism in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323163929	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323163929-2	I agree that this is the expression of a completely crazy patriarchal culture. One of the things that was very important to Enhedslisten when we made the consent law was that the consent law also applies in marriages, so that the women who are subjected to negative social control and are therefore forced to have sex in their marriages are also protected by this law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323163952	Thank you. The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323163956	After all, it can be seen that all the examples that Mrs Rosa Lund gives in her speech are some that fall under section 266b, so it has not solved the problem. Then I'd like to relate a little to what they say about it covering, I think they mentioned gods. Is that also true of ideologies? Should the racism clause cover ideologies so that ideologies should not be criticised according to the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164026	Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164026-2	No, certainly not. I think that ideologies must be criticised, just as I also think that religion, gods, Jesus and prophets should be criticized. I think you can. I think that the racism clause is necessary because it protects minorities from hate speech which can lead to violence. It's not just something I'm saying, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen; that is also something that the Freedom of expression commission concludes. That is why I disagree with the whole premise that the racism clause is an attack on our freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164100	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164101	However, when we raise the debate here, it is precisely because there are people who are convicted under section 266b for criticising an ideology, and that is why we have the problem. This paragraph is being watered down because it's being used for things that it wasn't originally intended for. That is why we mean what we do. So if Enhedslisten really believes that one should criticise ideologies and it should not be punished according to § 266b, then one should also be willing to look at changing it. Because that's what's really happening out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164135	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164136	After all, we think it is very good that we have the division of power and that the courts interpret our legislation. I don't know exactly what this case is, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen is talking about. Let us discuss it in committee, and we would be very happy to do so. I would like to repeat that we in the Enhedslisten thought it was very good that the blasphemy clause was abolished in Denmark, and it was actually us who led it, although we also got a little scold for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164201	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief comments. It's a good thing if Mrs. Rosa Lund wants to drink off again. Thank you. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164225	Thank you, President. In Denmark, citizens' freedom of expression should not be restricted. Everyone is entitled to publish his thoughts in print, in writing and in speech. It is a right guaranteed by Paragraph 77 of the Constitution. This is one of the most important freedoms, and it needs to be strengthened, and the repeal of section 266b of the penal code, the so-called racism clause, is a step in that direction. Threats and calls for violence will continue to be illegal under § 266, but it will no longer be illegal to reproach or demean people because of, among others, ethnicity, national origin, belief or sexual orientation. The Conservative People's Party is, of course, opposed to racism and other forms of discrimination. This motion for a resolution from the New Citizens' Party is not about whether you are for or against racism. I think we can all agree that statements of the nature described in section 266b of the Criminal Code are stupid and say more about the sender than about those against which the sentences are directed. Racism does not belong anywhere in Denmark, and it must meet with the right arguments. And here are the key words of argument, because racism must therefore be dealt with by the democratic conversation, not by the courts of the countries. I believe that the Danes' values are so strong that one lunatic or ten will quickly get the line of the public debate without the help of the courts. Freedom of speech is under pressure throughout the Western world. In Denmark we have seen examples of school teachers who have been threatened by their teaching material. The murder of the French schoolteacher Samuel Paty, who had shown the Mohammed drawings, is the horror example of how wrong things can go. We need to do more on the part of the Danish Parliament to ensure that it is safe to express oneself in Denmark. The abolition of the racism clause does not solve the whole problem, but in our view it is a good start. I had hoped that the Freedom of Movement Commission would conclude that it would recommend the abolition of the discrimination clause, but that was opposed by a majority. In fact, I am in line with the minority, and one of those belonging to the minority is a very prominent defender of freedom of expression, Flemming Rose, and he points out that empirically there is no evidence that racism clauses counteract violence, violence against minorities, rather, on the contrary, and legal certainty is a problem that citizens in Denmark have been convicted and acquitted of racism, respectively, although their statements are comparable. This is due to a built-in ambiguity and vagueness in the racism paragraph, because the one's hatred, as he puts it, may be the other's poetry. Hate has no legal definition, and such laws risk being used to criminalise unpopular attitudes. Furthermore, he writes that there are strong historical arguments for rejecting such laws, for they have often been used to suppress minorities and have equipped repressive governments with a weapon to strike down different thinkers. So, in order to round off, I would say that we are against racism and discrimination on the basis of people's sexuality, belief, etc., it is primitive, it is stupid, but the concern for the freedom of expression of the Danes is so important that the repeal of section 266b of the penal code is necessary. Let us stand together to fight racism with arguments and not with paragraphs in the courts. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164646	There was just a request for a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164651	I think it is gratifying that the Conservatives have changed policy in this area too, and that we can thus stand together on freedom of expression. So far along the way, I can also share Mr. Naser Khader's balancing of the various considerations. What I'd just like to ask is when did the confession come? Because it is not long ago that the Conservative People's Party was sitting in the Ministry of Justice, and I have no memory that the ideas I welcome were something that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen was particularly concerned when he was in the Justice Department's chair. And for the sake of history writing and political history writing, it could be nice to know when the announcement came and then, of course, whether there is a sunset clause on it. Well, it's a lot up in time, and if so, sir... Søren Pape Poulsen will be Prime Minister, does he still think so, or is it only in opposition, the Conservative People's Party believes the right thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164744	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164746	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt is usually well informed and well-informed, and if Mr. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt Googler, the policy of the Conservative People's Party in this area, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt finds out it's actually in our 2030 plan. I myself have been on this platform and spoken against the discrimination clause, but when we were part of the government, it was three different governments that wanted something different and therefore it could not be done while we were in government. The same with the blasphemy clause and the same with the Marrakesh agreement. Now we are free, and that is why we can tell you what we stand for politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164829	Thank you. This did not give rise to any further brief comments. We're gonna have to get the booze off. I do not immediately see any representative of the Liberal Alliance, so we should welcome Mr. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323164853	I myself am in favour of a free debate with a high ceiling, but I am even more in favour of a proper debate, because a debate full of racism is not constructive and an attack is not a debate at all. And now it is not the height to the ceiling that is threatened by this proposal • No, I believe that you are punching a hole in the floor and digging the debate even further into a dark hole so that the public debate can become even uglier and more hateful. The other day, Ekstra Bladet closed the Nation, which was part of the network's racist trash can. Is it Denmark that we saw at the Nation that New Citizens want a hateful universe filled with racism, sexism and hatred? In the proposal, the authors of the motion state that it is for freedom of expression that they make this proposal because, according to them, a racism clause restricts the free debate. But in what debate is racism relevant? What kind of debate will be improved by expressing oneself racistly or, for that matter, hating other minorities who are today protected by the paragraph? Who, apart from those who wish to express hate, serve it? This will certainly not make us wiser or improve public debate. It's just gonna create more hate. We have recently seen violent hate crimes committed against Muslim women and, as the research points out, the number of hate crimes is linked to a toxic public debate. When politicians talk ugly about, for example. Muslims or other minorities for that matter, we legitimize violence against and assault on Muslims and other minorities. So I dare not think about how it will end if New Citizens allow themselves to express themselves even more hatefully than what is already being done today and which we can see today on the web and elsewhere in our society. Taking good care of our minorities with the racism clause has been part of Danish legislation since 1939 when it was the Jews who were next. It is a proud Danish tradition that goes hand in hand with freedom of expression. That is why the Greens cannot vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165125	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165129	I understand that the rapporteur cannot vote in favour of this because if he voted for abolition, he would also allow the ideology of Islam to be criticised, and the rapporteur basically does not like that. Otherwise, he would vote in favour of this proposal. Abolition of this paragraph would mean criticising Islam; that one should take the ideology of Islam and compare it with another totalitarian ideology: Nazism, but the rapporteur does not want it. It is clear from the platform this time to say: No, Islamideology must not be criticised, so we must keep a paragraph that ensures that we cannot criticise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165215	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165216	I noticed that this question has been put by the rapporteur to several other rapporteurs, but when I came up here, this is the addition that I should not be able to tolerate religious criticism. It really tells a lot about how much focus is really on, yes, you can say the religious background of New Citizens, and that really makes me rather sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165239	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165240	That should not make the rapporteur sad, it should just make a little more aware, because I said that criticism is not ideology, but the rapporteur is immediately linking it with religion, and perhaps it says more about the thinking of the rapporteur than it does for everyone else: that one cannot decouple ideology and religion. But fair enough! I am talking about the ideology of Islam, where someone has been convicted of comparing it with Nazism, and to that the rapporteur says: yes, he must be judged for that; we must not criticise this ideology; we must not compare it with Nazism. You think it's quite fair that people should be judged for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165315	The rapporteur keeps putting words, opinions and opinions in my mouth about things on which I have not spoken at all. I do not know the specific case. All I know is that it is crucial that we have a racism clause so that we do not make anti-Semitic statements. I think it is crucial that we have a racism clause so that we can ensure that we do not get the basement people out. I think it is crucial that we have a racism clause so that we can protect our minorities from hateful rhetoric.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165350	The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165353	I think we really want the same thing here. In other words, we are all against racism, anti-Semitism, friendly talk about the holocaust and so on. and so on, but what's just interesting is that Mr. Sikandar Siddique's position seems to be that if you have a strict management of that part of freedom of expression, it is also the right tool to fight it. That's where I'd like to hear sir. Sikandar Siddique's reflections on some of the countries such as: Belgium and Germany, where holocaust denial, use of the swastika has been banned, etc. Is that sir? Sikandar Siddique's view that in those countries there is more or less a tendency towards Nazism and right-wing extremism than in Denmark where it is not prohibited?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165444	In other words, it is going to be such an academic debate on something that I have no evidence of being able to comment on. At any rate, I can only say that the Freedom of expression Commission has done a thorough job and they say that the racism clause, § 266b, of the penal code, does not prevent us from having an open and proper debate and that we have a completely clear and clear freedom of expression. That's what I'm concerned about. Besides, you just have to keep in mind, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, to abolish the racism clause, then anti-Semitic statements are allowed. Is that what the Danish People's Party wants? Because Free Greens won't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165529	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165530	What I am saying is that if we look at the countries where we have taken a firmer hold on freedom of expression, for example. in Germany, but also in other European countries I have described it in my latest book, which I can give to Mr. Sikandar Siddique, if he is interested in it then unfortunately you see a tendency for there to be even greater radicalisation on the right, in Nazi environments etc. than in those countries where you have a free debate. And if so, sir. Sikandar Siddique wants to fight right-wing extremism, Nazism and such things, so it is strange that he speaks in favour of moving towards the methods used in those countries where there is more right-wing extremism and Nazism than there is in Denmark. - Sir... Sikandar Siddique doesn't see that it's not connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165606	It is just not related to what the research that is in this area shows. Susan Benesch, who has researched in hatepeech, links it together and calls it: corralation between hatepeech and hatecrime. She has researched what she calls dangerous speech and the parameters underlying the fact that expressing oneself hatefully results or may result in hate crimes. So there is a lot of research in this area which shows that we should not, of course, give a free hand to discriminatory utterances.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165641	The next thing I would like to give the floor to is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165642	Thank you. Does the rapporteur think that the following should be legal in Denmark: Ideology Islam is as disgusting, disgusting, oppressive and anti-human as Nazism?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165701	We have a division of power in Denmark, and I am therefore not going to act as a court of law. But all sorts of discriminatory hate speech... Islamophobic hate speech, anti-Semitic hate speech... must of course be forbidden.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165721	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165723	However, the rapporteur stands here as legislator. Does the rapporteur think that it should be legal to express what I read before?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165734	Of course I have an opinion on this, but I do not know whether it falls within or outside the racism clause. What I can say is that we need a racism clause, for example. in relation to those Members whom Mrs Pernille Vermund himself excluded from New Citizens because they have spoken extremely; there was no room for them in New Citizens, and then they have been excluded from the party. There must be a reason for this, and it is that these are attitudes that are so wild. And attitudes that are so wild are some of those in society, and that must of course be combated with a racism clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165806	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. There are no more brief comments. You have to remember to drink off. As the last speaker on this point, Mr President, we have the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323165839	Normally I have an understanding that in a busy everyday life in the Folketing we must be different places and that we cannot all be here. But I hope that the cameraman can look over this Parliament hall and look around and see all the empty seats in the Parliament hall today. Not a single representative of the minister and government is sitting here, not a single representative of either the Social Democratic Party, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Left or the Conservatives are here to hear this speech and to finish this case. Thank you to the parties that are here. Thank you to the parties that take the debate seriously and believe that our freedom of expression is worth a few minutes on such an afternoon. Because our freedom of expression is under pressure, and when it is under pressure, our democracy is also under pressure. And I would like to start by reading out a quote which highlights how much our democracy and our freedom of expression are under pressure: Ideology Islam is as disgusting, disgusting, oppressive and hostile as Nazism. ▪ Those words were written by Mr. Ole Flemming Nielsen, who was convicted by Helsingør Byret in 2016 for writing those words. A criticism of a totalitarian ideology was found by the court to fall under § 266b and he was convicted. Fortunately, the case was appealed, and the court dismissed the man. But only the fact that these statements may be indicted is extremely problematic, not to mention the fact that a Danish city court could then pass judgment to criticise an ideology in 2016. This should cause all alarm bells to ring from all members of this Parliament, for then we have reached a place where this paragraph is no longer protective, as it was intended in 1939, namely to the Jewish minority, but has become a political tool and has been completely watered down and lost its value. That's why it's important that we address this paragraph. We in the New Citizens' Party believe that it should be abolished, but we also hope that the debate will open up the way for a review of it so that it may be able to return to what it was originally intended to do, namely to protect a minority. If there is something that is clear today, it is also that there is a very big difference between the red side of the Chamber that has the power or the blue side of the Chamber that has the power. Thanks to parties such as the Danish People's Party and Conservatives and also the Liberal Alliance, I know, for supporting the abolition of this paragraph. Let us hope that after a parliamentary election, if power changes, we can press the Left to go all the way and abolish this paragraph. I also think it is important to emphasise that this is not about allowing everything, that it is not about allowing every behavior in society, because we do not want that in New Citizens. And that is why it is important to stress here that even if you either remove or revise § 266b, you will still be held accountable to the courts for what you say. You can still not threaten people; we have § 266 to protect against that. And you still must not write lies about people; we have § 267 to protect against that. But between these two sensible paragraphs, there is a disgusting paragraph that limits our freedom of expression; which limits and limits our freedom of thought. In this way it is deeply damaging to our democracy, and that is why we in the New Citizens want it to be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170406	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170412	Thank you to the rapporteur. As I said, the Greens do not support the proposal, and I would say that I too think it is a pity that there are no more in the Chamber. I have two questions. Question number one: Can the rapporteur confirm that by abolishing the paragraph on racism, Paragraph 266b, it will be possible to make anti-Semitic statements in the future, for example. Calling Jews Black Death Muslims cancerous? Can the rapporteur confirm that it would then be possible for the racism clause to be abolished to be able to say in the public debate: Jews are the Black Death? Can the rapporteur confirm this? Yeah, I think that's the first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170507	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170509	But we have to consider: what is best? Is it being said or is it being thought? I do not want us to shield the racists or the anti-Semitism in our Danish society and hide them away. I want them to be exhibited. I think their totally awkward and absurd attitudes should be displayed, and I will have a debate at any time about those people who have those opinions, instead of hiding them away. I do not need a state to defend it, because I think the Danish people do. I believe that the Danish people out there will defend it, and they will never accept that it should be the view that it should be uncontroversial.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170608	Thank you. I would just like to ask Mrs Susanne Zimmer to move a thank you further so that you do not sit so close and just remember to log out and log in again. Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170624	So I hear the rapporteur say that with the arguments that now exist and for various reasons we must be able to say in the public debate that Muslims are cancerous tumors and that Jews are the Black Death because it is no use hiding them away. I think that is problematic, because we have seen what has led to historical results, just as research shows what that can lead to. Then I would just like the rapporteur to comment on something else that I mentioned from the platform, namely that we have Lars Kiil from Gentofte, who is running for new citizens and who has been excluded. What's this all about? And now I was not allowed to ask the question completely, but yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170704	No. I must, however, reject the fact that it is always a certain speech that creates a certain regime. So now reference is made to the German regime. It was national socialists. I come from a bourgeois party. And if you just get the historical context in place, then you'll know that what happened in Germany was largely based on a strong state that suppressed freedom of expression and burned books and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170735	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170742	Thank you. I just want to sign off on the fact that New Citizens have raised this debate. Now I was able to hear the speech that it began with a great surprise that no one was present in the Chamber. Now we have been on the floor in the debate, we have been following the debate, and we have just been sitting out here listening to the excellent speech and now asking a question. It's just that it's not supposed to be called, that you can cut it together for a video for Facebook and then illustrate that you speak for completely empty halls, because that's not how it works. So I just want to say thank you for a good debate. It was a good opportunity to mark why it is a bad idea to abolish this paragraph.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170816	Well, at least I'm glad I can pull Mr. Kim. Jeppe Bruus entered from his coffee out in the hall and that he would like to take part in the debate on freedom of speech. So I just want to thank you for coming to the square.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170825	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170829	It was quite touching to hear the talk of democracy and the concept of democracy, etc., when, moreover, in the case before, New Citizens supported one of the greatest restrictions on personal freedom in the foreseeable future, namely this with the general residence ban, which will really constitute a restriction on the freedom of movement of innocent Danes and hence the right of freedom and thus a core of being in a democratic society. What I would like to ask the speaker is about some of the things I have experienced in this debate, and that is that there are a lot of people who are reluctant to use their freedom of expression on the basis of all the very hateful speech that is going on and that we also have an obligation to put an end to. Does it not touch the speaker at all that there are very many who are reluctant to use their freedom of expression, and should we not also have their voices with and thus optimise the democracy that was mentioned so touchingly in the speech before?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170929	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323170930	We fully acknowledge in New Citizens that we must use various tools that we do not like. However, this is due to a long-standing misguided immigration policy supported by the Radical Left. It has created some problems in Danish society that we have to deal with, and if we do not deal with them, they just grow bigger and bigger. So, yes, we are in trouble in Denmark, and we are doing so because of a failed immigration policy that has been conducted for very, very many years. When it comes to the debate, I also see many people who do not want to express their opinions because they are afraid that they will be judged by § 266b. So it is a balancing act, but it has hardly been easier than in the public debate today to unplug some people who do not like people whose opinions are not shared. Well, on Facebook you can block people if you think their opinions aren't right for what you want to have standing on your thread or something else; then you can use that option. So it has hardly ever been easier to reject people whom you do not want to be part of the debate that you have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323171024	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323171026	The interesting thing is that in this motion for a resolution the remarks mention that there are some subjects that cannot be discussed, and I would like to hear whether the rapporteur thinks that there are some subjects that cannot be discussed, but that there are only limits to the extent to which there can be very, very hateful speech in the way that it is discussed, and that all subjects should be easily discussed and with a high ceiling, as in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323171053	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323171055	But if one always speaks within the lukewarm oatmeal, one never gets into trouble, but in the specific case there is a person who criticises the ideology of Islam and compares it with Nazism. That's reality. The man was convicted in a Danish court in 2016 for making the comparison. It should also make the alarm bells ring in the hands of the radical rapporteur, but obviously not, because when it comes to Islam, there are other guidelines for radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323171129	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323171151	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 6 April 2021. First, we need a explanatory statement from the questioners, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323171224	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we are not very excited that criminals are getting away with low penalties. Unfortunately, all too often the courts take all the attention of the perpetrator, which is why the perpetrator gets away very cheaply, but the victim is forgotten, because there is rarely enough consideration here. It is often the perpetrator's perspective, personal circumstances, any previous circumstances, rights and conventions and the like that are distinguished, and all too often it gives an image of a punishment that is not approaching a punishment at the maximum end of the sentence, rather the opposite. It is often at the mild end of the penalty, the penalty ends, and then it is really no use for us here in Christiansborg to set the penalty, because we believe that something is particularly violent, particularly dangerous for people, if the courts do not listen to the signals we send here from Christiansborg, that we want certain forms of crime to be punished more severely. That is why we have called this inquiry debate to hear about the government's and the whole parliament's views on minimum penalties, and whether the Folketing agrees with the Danish People's Party that we need to have minimum penalties to a much greater extent than is the case today, simply to ensure that the public's legal awareness is respected, so that the penalties we give in Denmark are in line with the public's legal awareness. This is not the case today in several different areas, which is why the Danish People's Party wants to tighten up these things, and we hope that the Danish Parliament will agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323171421	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup for the explanatory statement. Then it's the Minister of Justice for a reply in a moment. Even if it's a little tricky, we'd better make sure it gets spritted off. That's great. Thank you. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323171442	Thank you for the floor. The use of minimum penalties is something that we have discussed several times before in this Chamber. That is why I do not think my position on the matter is very much behind the House today either. The short answer is that I am not a big fan of minimum sentences. I believe that we should, as a starting point, allow the courts to determine the penalties in the specific cases. That's their job. It is the courts that are presented with the full picture, and it is therefore also they who are best able to take account of the overall circumstances of the case. When the government is not in favour of increased use of minimum penalties, it is basically because we do not think it is a good instrument for achieving what I understand the questioners want, namely stricter penalties. Crimes come in many variants, and it is rare that two offences of the same crime are completely identical. That is why the penalties are not the same, nor should they be the same. No matter how much we want to, we cannot predict in our determination of the level of penalties what is happening in the specific cases that will come. Life is not black and white, and the same applies to infringements of the law, although it would of course be easier to deal with it if it were so. Therefore, there must also be room for the nuances to be taken into account. However, this is not the same as the fact that the Folketing should not be given the opportunity to set a level of punishment with clear indications. We have to, but it should just be stated not as a minimum, but as a starting point. And that is precisely the approach we often take when we tighten up the penalties by indicating the level of penalties in the comments, not as minimum penalties, but as a desirable level. And I also think it has to be said that this approach actually works. The courts are actually following that. It is not necessary to specify a minimum penalty in the legal text itself, in order for the courts to apply the level of punishment that we would like to see. As I said, when we set a level in the comments on the legislation, we have to say that the courts are complying with it. And on top of that, the courts will maintain their ability to make the concrete estimate required in the specific case. I support the intention in the question that punishment should reflect the seriousness of the crime. This is also something that we in the government have been constantly focusing on, and that is why we have not been reluctant to make penalties where we have found them necessary. Let me take a few examples. In the summer of 2020, we significantly increased the penalty for violations of the criminal code's terrorist regulations, so that the penalty was increased by 50%. In December last year, we tightened the penalties for attacks on people on public service, among other things. with fireworks, and it could also be rocks. And, most recently, we have adopted a significant increase in the level of penalties for breaches of the criminal code's provisions on dangerous driving or driving madness, as we call it. I am glad that we came through with the punishments and I think they better reflect the distance that we have to the crimes that are being committed. The government's position on minimum penalties has therefore continued to be that they should not be used as a starting point. However, it is essential that the levels of punishment we have reflect, of course, the seriousness of the offence and the intentions of our Parliament and the government. That is why I am aware that the courts must have the best framework for establishing appropriate penalties. But once again, thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting this question on the agenda and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323171907	I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for the time being. It is now the case that the rapporteurs can have a brief comment in the first place, and if there are no brief comments, we will move on to the negotiations. There are no immediate brief comments, so I would ask the Minister to spritze off. Then we move on to the debates and the general rules for short remarks. First of all, we must welcome the rapporteur of the questioners, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323171950	I think that minimum penalties are, frankly, a good word and a sensible concept which conceals the fact that there are certain forms of crime in which we want to make sure that there is a minimum level of punishment, because all too often we see that crime is punished much lighter than what we, as legislators, have thought should be the case. That is why we would like to see the current two places in the criminal code, where there are minimum penalties, it is killing and possession of weapons, to include several forms of crime and dangerous personal crime, and that would be an obvious place to start with personal crime, such as the death penalty. rape, where today we see punishments that are far too low. In fact, we even see that people who commit rape and group rape are allowed to stay in Denmark even if they are not Danish citizens. So there is a need for minimum penalties, both in terms of number of years and in terms of the Danish People's Party wants 6 years in prison for rape and in terms of a minimum requirement to be deported if you are not a Danish citizen. When I say that, it is because, as politicians, we need to take the lead and ensure that the penalties we have today are sensible, while at the same time they are actually being filled in. And we must look at the punishments given to the courts, such as those who are often far too mild in relation to the penalties we have. And if an extended framework of penalties, which we in this House adopt with open eyes, does not work and does not make an impression or gives sufficient expression to the judges, then we must resort to other tools, and it is simply to set minimum penalties, and on the basis of the minimum penalty, the judge can assess further where the actual penalty should land, but never go below the minimum penalty. I fully agree that it should be the courts that define the penalty to a large extent, but it is also the case that the penalties we actually adopt at Christiansborg should be used. We saw, for example. It was as usual in immigrants' dense areas that it ran completely off, and in the light of those incidents, the Danish People's Party did so that we took all the cases that were brought to judgment and looked at whether some of the cases that led to a punishment were relatively sensitive, because the punishment is, in fact, good enough in this area. In the light of the incidents that took place, we found that the highest sentence sentenced after the turn of 2019/20 and all the fireworks incidents that were there was a penalty of 60 days of unconditional imprisonment. In fact, the person was ex-convict. He deliberately shot a couple with a bomb tube on the street, and one of them was hit. This is an area where there is a penalty of up to 8 years in prison in section 252 of the Criminal Code, but he was given 60 days in prison despite a penalty of 8 years in prison. So it is in a case where bomb tubes are deliberately directed at other people and one of them is thus hit. Since then, we have asked the Minister for Justice to take care of our work... about what it really took before using the full penalty framework in a case like this. Unfortunately, and now the Minister of Justice is present, we did not really get an answer that made us much wiser. It is not always the case when we ask the Minister for Justice about things and matters, and that was not the case here either. Perhaps the truth is that, with the case-law, it is inconceivable and completely impossible to approach the penal framework of the eight years of imprisonment, because in practice the sentences are considerably lower. And we see, in fact, in relation to quite a lot of forms of crime, when we look at the treatment of the courts, that we have a practice that means that we end up much lower than the penalty framework that actually exists, and that is what we need to correct, and there are minimum penalties, and that is why the Danish People's Party would like to have it, because we believe that in some separate areas there is a gap between what we call the legal awareness of the people, and then the penalties that are actually measured by the courts. The Danish People's Party has a proposal for adoption which I would like to read out. It sounds like this: Proposals for adoption The Parliament sees with great seriousness when crimes are punished milder than the intention behind the legislation adopted by the Danish Parliament. That is why the Folketing wants minimum penalties in more areas than today. Punishment is a tool used by society when crime has been committed. The punishment to the perpetrator must give the victim and society a sense of justice on top of the atrocity that has been committed. Most recently, we have seen how many women dare not go home alone at night because of fear of being attacked or raped. It is insecurity in its purest form, and the low penalties for rape contribute to insecurity. The punishment for rape is far too low. According to figures from 2019, the average sentence was just 989 days in jail • less than 3 years. In the case of rape, a minimum sentence of six years in prison and expulsion for foreigners must be introduced. • V 93).
ParlaMint-DK_20210323172606	Is the proposal for adoption by DF alone? Peter Skaarup Yes. ) Then there is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323172624	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that the Danish People's Party has long wanted what lies behind the question here, namely to get further into the courts in general and in general. It is not so many years since the beginning of this parliamentary election period that the Danish People's Party also criticised a newly appointed Supreme Court judge because it was thought that he was not the one who should have been appointed. I would therefore like to know what the position of the Danish People's Party is: should there be some judges who had certain political views that the Danish People's Party helped to appoint? Or where, like the Danish People's Party's approach to moving into the courts?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323172710	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323172713	We appoint a number of judges as such now. I don't know if sir. Kristian Hegaard is aware of this, but it is, of course, through the system of judges and jurors in which the political parties, out of their midst and also others, submit names which are then included as judges in the cases. However, it is important that we have a popular element in our courts. This simply does not change the fact that when we talk about these things with the judges elected from among the political parties from among the people, then the clear and clear impression is that the practice that one has taken is what one has decided in advance is the approximately penalty that it gives for the relationship in question and that the practice is just what it is. It is clear that if we are really going to make the judges understand that we are serious about this, we have signalled it many times in different contexts, then we need to have minimum penalties, because that is how we say that the practice has been eliminated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323172830	Thank you. It turned out to be another 8 seconds, so it was fine. Here you go, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323172841	Thank you. I agree that the lay judge system is very good, and what is actually happening in practice is that the parties can set some names, and then by later drawing of lots it will be decided who will then be selected. But there is something I would like to ask you about and the rapporteur did not answer. In the Supreme Court there is, for example. No lay judges. Does the Danish People's Party think that judges should be more elected on the basis of their political views? The Danish People's Party has previously criticised which judges are sometimes appointed. Is it the policy of the Danish People's Party that there should be judges with certain political views?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323172920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323172922	We're gonna have some Supreme Court judges accredited, and I think that's quite right, as Mr. Kristian Hegaard says, without even remembering it. But it's not really that crucial here. What matters here is whether, as politicians in here, we will appoint our judges, just as we know it from the United States, and we do not have any plans for that. There we have an excellent system today. What is at stake then is that we do not accept that the practice in the courts is the final answer to where a penalty should lie, but that from in here we set a minimum penalty for certain crimes, which we would say in particular must be severely punished. That is what has been done with regard to killing, and that is what has been done with regard to the possession of weapons, and now we are proposing that it be done with regard to rape and other serious areas where it is important that the will of the Danish Parliament, and thus with the will of the people, be put through.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323173015	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we shall now turn to the other rapporteurs. The first to speak after the despriting is Mr. Jesper Bruus of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323173041	Thank you for that, President. This isn't the first time I've been called Jesper. I'm also going under the name Jeppe, but I don't want to hear a bad word about that. It's not the first time, it's the last time, so it's all forgiven. This question is indeed about the minimum penalty and, as we could hear from the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Peter Skaarup, it is of course to be sure that the courts are in fact also judging at the level desired by the Folketing. We have had this debate in the past, and we have also had it in the Committee on Legal Affairs and with the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr President. Preben Bang Henriksen, where we have discussed it clearly to indicate in the comments and in the preparatory work to the legislation what is the standard level of punishment that should be. We have also had a discussion of this in the negotiations we have had about a new agreement for the police and the prosecution. And I just note that the rapporteur says in his speech that we cannot count on the courts to follow the wishes of the Danish Parliament. This may in fact be a bit contrary to some of the things I have observed at least. In the past, it was known to me last summer that the Court of Justice carried out an analysis of the convictions given in relation to dangerous driving, and it can be seen that, as a general rule, the courts follow the level of penalties indicated in the proceedings of the regulations. In the past, the Criminal Law Council has also dealt with this issue back in 2014 about the investigation of sentences and the interaction between legislators and courts. They also state that it is preferable, that is to say, to refer to punishment in the comments, because this is the most appropriate way to deal with this issue rather than with minimum legislation. This leads me to believe that this is a good debate. It is therefore important that we, as legislators, should be able to make a clear statement if we are dissatisfied with the practice that is taking place in relation to any particular legislation. Then it is often that we have a debate with each other in public about the criminal framework. However, the penalty framework can in principle be less significant if the actual judgments that are handed down are in the mild end in a perhaps otherwise reasonable penal framework. Therefore, it is worth having this discussion about where the level of punishment should actually lie. There we are also in favour of making this clear more clearly in the comments and thus setting out a practice for how these judgments are to be implemented. That is also some of the things that include. have taken place in the discussions and negotiations and decisions that have been made in relation to increased penalties for driving madness. That is why we have drawn up a text for adoption which I would like to read on behalf of the Social Democrats, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party. It reads as follows: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government is accommodating to the intentions behind the request that the level of punishment for violation of the criminal code should reflect the seriousness of the crimes and that this is something that the government is constantly focusing on. In addition, the Danish Parliament notes that a broad majority of parties with the agreement on the police and prosecutor's economy 2021-2023 agree that an independent investigation is to be initiated in 2021 to identify the relationship between the level of punishment for criminal offences and the applicable criminal framework, as well as the legislator's instructions on punishment. At the same time, Parliament notes that the government generally does not support minimum penalties. It is therefore the government's view that the legislator should ensure that the courts have a clear framework for determining the penalties, but that the determination of the penalty in specific cases • including the assessment of any aggravating or mitigating circumstances • should be left to the courts. • V 94). With reference to the study to be carried out independently this year, I also think that on the back of it we will have a qualified material to discuss on the basis of, and I am certainly looking forward to that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323173500	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323173508	Thank you. Of course, I think it is a good thing that the government thought that the intention we have with the question is real enough and that in this way we are accommodating. What is important then, if you have that position, is that there is agreement between what you say and what you do. I have to say that it is of little use to send things that need to be done now to corner kicks. If, for example, we do not know what to do. Takes the penalty for rape, you can see that the average is less than 3 years in prison. In fact, I think that most Danes are surprised that we are punishing it so fairly lightly. The penalty is 8 years in prison and, in aggravating cases, 12 years in prison. Today, however, an average of less than three years of imprisonment is punished. Is Mr. Jeppe Bruus does not agree with me that when there is a rape, it is totally unacceptable that it should not be punished more severely than the approx. Three years in prison, is it being punished today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323173614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323173617	I would say that there are many of the rape sentences that I have seen over the years, when I think that it was really low. So I do not know exactly the level of punishment, but I kind of agree that there have been many judgments over the years when I have thought that it was good enough at the low end of a sentence. We have, for example. With madness driving, in fact, a very good example of what we are also discussing today is with the joint agreement we have made, after all, precisely what the levels of penalties should be increased to. It is not minimum penalties, but it is, after all, a sharpening of the levels of penalties. So the way to work is very familiar.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323173700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323173704	After all, it is not because rape cases and penalties, and the procedures and things in this area have not been debated in the Folketing over the last few years. In fact, the government entered into a much-spoken agreement with the Red parties, which completely forgot penalties for rape. And as things stand now, they continue to do so. It is said that there will be a committee work. It is fine with committee work. But we have the challenge right now that it violates the legal awareness of a great many Danes, that rape is punished so relatively mildly, and that it is even the case that there are people, foreign citizens, who are committing rape in Denmark and who we do not even exhibit. - Sir... Jeppe Bruus didn't see that there's a problem here? There is a gap between the legal awareness of the people on the one hand and the punishments that come out of the mouth of the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323173750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323173753	Thank you. As I said, I have also come across convictions about rape, which I think is very low. I think that if we are going to go in and look at it, we need to find a way to do so, in other words at a different time than discussing the overall issue of minimum penalties. I cannot stand here either, it is not my job to do it and to go down in it, but as a principle in relation to setting the normal penalty, it is something that I think is a good idea when we do it, both when we review legislation and when we make legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323173829	Thank you very much, sir. Jeppe Bruus. You gotta be careful with those names. Jeppe Bruus It's so fine). I've been in it every once in a while. I'm sorry. I've also tried it with the next one, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323173855	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this important inquiry debate. DF asks about the government's attitude to minimum sentences, including, for example, insanity carism, gross violence and vice crimes. And I can understand DF's desire that it should be punished when we talk about such serious offences and that it should be severely punished. So, of course, it may be tempting to put on some number, in relation to how much it should at least be punished as a minimum. Take, for example. the crazy driver who recently drove directly into a mother and her only 5-year-old daughter on Peter Bangs Vej right on the border with Frederiksberg in September. The mother was injured, the little girl was killed on the spot, and the man was then so cowardly that he fled on foot, but fortunately later was apprehended by the police. Later it turned out that he had several convictions behind him, and that it was not even the first time that he had hit another human being. In 2019 he, also in an affected condition, hit a young woman who ended up in a coma. When one hears of cases like this, and has to do with a perpetrator who acts so dumbly, yes, there can well stand up a thought in the back of one's brain that such a person should be thrown into prison forever and forever and the keys must be thrown away. And that is why it is probably very good that it is not us politicians who set the penalties, but that we have courts to do so. They will clarify the matter and bring in all aspects before they pass judgment. There are several people in here who remember the Knife Act back from 2008, when a minimum penalty was just laid down. It was said that the minimum should be 7 days in jail to wear a knife. The result was that some cases were brought in, among other things. artisans who had been stopped by the police, and because they had a hobby knife in the glove compartment, they had to go to jail for seven days and get a stained criminal record. Everyone could, I think, see that it wasn't as smart as that. Minimum penalties may be inappropriate. There may always be cases where the exception confirms the rule and where there are reasons why a minimum penalty would be too high a penalty to give in the particular case. However, this does not mean that the level of punishment should not be at the level of the seriousness of the crimes, and that is why we are looking forward to the independent investigation which has been announced and which has to cover many of these issues. After all, we have a situation in which, in some penal regulations and special regulations, we have a criminal framework that is being exploited to the maximum. For example: manslaughter and drug crimes go up to the maximum in a wide range of cases. And then there are other cases where you're in the lowest third and you're up to half. There is no really reasonable explanation for why the courts use the penalties to the extent that is so different. What we should instead do rather than propose minimum penalties is to write in the comments to the law what we imagine the normal punishment should be. In other words, a type of offence in question is what we imagine to be punished in this way and so on. And, of course, you can go upstairs. If it is a serious crime, you have to get into the upper part of the criminal framework, and if it is a less serious crime, where there are various mitigating circumstances, you have to go into the lower part. After all, we also have sections 81 and 82 of the Criminal Code, which tell us exactly what it is that the courts must place emphasis on as mitigating circumstances, and what they must emphasise as aggravating circumstances. We will be careful that we do not go into too much detail as legislators with exactly how the courts are to judge. We have a division of power, and judges must judge by law, but we can be better able to determine what we consider to be a reasonable level of punishment. So, we cannot support the proposal for minimum penalties, but we would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the debate. Then I have a proposal for adoption which I would like to read on behalf of the Left and the Liberal Alliance. It reads as follows: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the criminal framework should be exploited to punish a serious crime in the upper part of the relevant criminal framework and a milder crime in the lower part of the criminal framework. In a number of judgments, this spectrum does not seem to have been exploited, and the Folketing therefore welcomes the fact that the government in 2021 will allow the relationship to be the subject of a closer investigation. In any new criminal law, the Folketing should signal the normal penalty for the more normal customary crime of the kind in question, and the courts should base this on the final reduction of the penalty, taking into account, inter alia, the individual circumstances of the case. Section 81-82 of the Criminal Code. The Courts should be bound to a minimum extent by minimum penalties. • V 95).
ParlaMint-DK_20210323174426	Thank you. It is part of the further negotiations together with the previous proposal for adoption. There is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323174438	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen for the rapporteur's speech here. When I'm gonna ask mr. Jan E. Jørgensen on something about minimum penalties, it is because it is said several times that minimum penalties are not a good solution. That's not what you want, and you don't want to be a part of it. On the other hand, it is good that there is a committee work to take a position and assess back and forth on this issue. But now it's like we have we have, for example. minimum penalties with regard to the possession of firearms. It is actually something that has come about at a time when the Left has been in government. That is why I would like to ask the following question: if minimum penalties are so wrong and unreasonable and that the courts have to decide, it means that you have regretted that, together with others. In fact, the Danish People's Party, we demanded that the minimum penalty be increased to 2 years in prison for possession of firearms, for example. Getting around the gangs that make the streets uncomfortable?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323174539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323174542	We also have it on manslaughter, i.e. five years. I am aware that this has always been the case, or at least for a very, very long time. So it is not the case that it cannot be imagined in individual cases, but it must therefore be the absolute exception. And just such things as illegal possession of weapons are also many things. It is also the kid who inherits an old machine gun from his freedom fighter's father and does not realize that it is illegal and has it at home. Is he going to jail for years, or should the courts be able to say that ah, that's not exactly the type of crime we're thinking of? So minimum penalties are something we must be very, very careful to fix, because there can always be a case that we have not just thought about in here, but which we are then presented with in a court of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323174638	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323174640	I must admit that I have never been presented with examples that the minimum sentence we made with regard to the possession of weapons has meant that someone has been unfairly treated. On the contrary, I have only been given praise from police officers who have told me that it is a great tool you have made there. It is a great tool, because it makes it possible to put the gangs in a much more difficult situation when you see some people hiding guns from others and then being used in conflict between gangs today. Time and again, we see guns being used. They use them against each other, and there are some others who hide those guns, and that gives rise to a reasonable punishment, I think. I would like to repeat the question. Does this mean that the Left regrets that together we introduced a minimum sentence of two years in prison for possession of firearms?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323174729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323174731	Now it is Parliament's speaking chair and not a confessional chair, so what we may regret etc., I think we should take on another occasion. But I just want to make it clear that the example of Mr. Peter Skaarup mentions, I completely agree with having to be severely punished, and that is one of the ways we can get the shovel under the gangs. But that may also be the case, for example. The young man I told you about, who has a grandfather who was a freedom fighter, and he has inherited his old weapon at the time. This is not the type of crime that we believe should be severely and for a long time. And there may be a very good idea for the courts to have the possibility of punishing, of course, but then not punishing quite as hard as these types of cases that were intended to be affected by the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323174819	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. We now move on to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323174844	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by stating that we in the SF think it is really important when you are subjected to an offence or a criminal offence that it is then punished. It goes without saying that it must never be without consequences to expose another person to crime. We're punishing because it generally has a preventive effect. That's what makes you and me and others not commit crime. Above all, however, we are punishing the victims to see that the experience they have had is taken care of. And in addition to that experience of justice, the case comes quickly to court, so that we can quickly put a stop to the case so that the victim can move forward; at least that is something that the victims often describe as much need. Unfortunately, it is a great deal because we have courts that are at their knees in terms of resources. We in the SF have problematized that so-called serial criminals can just commit new things and thus push a case to court because there is a rule that you can put all the facts together and get them sentenced in court all at once. We saw, among other things, that on TV 2 they described how a stalker and assailant harassed a number of ex-boyfriends and were incredibly aware that he could just push the case by committing new circumstances and in the case in question it went on for eight years. And when a long time goes by, there can also be a penalty rebate, because the case has been going on for a very long time in the judicial system. And I also believe that in the field of road traffic we can find people who do the same. Of course, in our optics we should not be able to do so, which is why we are a little satisfied that, in relation to the police agreement, we actually agreed to take a closer look at the mechanisms of the sentence, which are seen as extremely unfair. On the other hand, I believe that we also have a political responsibility to ensure that matters do not get so old that they trigger a penalty rebate; it is a bit backwards that we have to abolish the penalty rebate because the courts and the police have suffered for years in terms of resources, but that is the reality right now. Anyway, we have an agreement to take a look at these things. But I also have to say that in the SF we are not concerned with minimum sentences or normal sentences. We think there should be room for the judges to take stock of mitigating and aggravating circumstances. Finally, I should like to mention that the most important thing is that we should have criminals convicted at all for what they are actually doing, and that is a huge challenge here, because in these years, too, there are many, many cases going on because the police are under pressure on their resources. I am sure that there are a great many cases among which we might have been able to get more if there had been a real investigation. Last but not least, I also think it is important to bear in mind that the rights of victims also include the right to obtain prompt compensation and to get help to recover from the violation. The punishment can help put an end to the case, but that is rarely what alone causes the victim to heal mentally. It can contribute, but it may not be able to get the victim fully to the finish. And that is where I think we need to make psychological assistance free of charge, and the SF actually has a proposal on the way. Today it is the case that there is an own payment of 40% if you are exposed to crime. And when we know at the same time from VIVE's studies that victims often also have a weak socio-economic background, then it is actually the people who have the worst opportunity to pay for psychological help that needs it, and I think that is wrong. So I think that there are a great many things that we can still do for the victims and that we need to deal with, but minimum penalties do not seem to me to be one of the tools that lies straight ahead. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323175253	Thank you very much to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. There are no brief comments. That is why we shall move on to the next rapporteur, and his name is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323175337	Thank you for the floor. In Denmark we have a division of power. It is quite practical in section 3 of the Constitution. The theory of distribution of power is devised by Montesquieu after inspiration from John Locke; we can go even further to the bottom of that story in another day. This means, among other things, that the courts judge and the Folketing legislate. For many years the proposers of the Danish People's Party have wanted the Danish Parliament to enter the courts and that the Danish Parliament should set minimum sentences and have made criticisms of appointed judges. The Folketing is not going any closer to playing judges. The kind where you do it, we usually distance ourselves from it. When the courts vote, a judgment will first assess the issue of guilt, and if it appears that a perpetrator is found guilty, then the sentence must be determined. So when the proposers want minimum penalties to be rolled out to a much greater extent, they restrict the courts' ability to act and thus show a degree of distrust of their work. The Radical Left will not be involved in this. It is also based on the assumption that everything that happens in criminal proceedings, what can be counted and what can be counted down can be foreseen here in the Folketing, and that is only what happens in the main proceedings of the courts that can end up in a decision on what the penalty is set for. It is a legitimate wish to contribute to the work of the courts, but I must then recommend instead that you take a legal education. It is never too late, and then you can apply for employment in the courts. I myself was a lay judge before I joined the Folketing. It's quite an exciting job. The judges you work with are smart. Danish judges are among the most productive in the EU. We must have confidence in them. We must respect the division of power, which is why the Radical Left does not want any more minimum penalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323175617	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments, so we will prepare for the next rapporteur. As far as I can see from the list, there is no one from the Enhedslisten. Then we'll go over to mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323175638	Thank you, President. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that consideration for the victim must always weigh more heavily than consideration for the criminal. That is why we have been working for many years to tighten up the level of penalties for perilous crimes, most recently when a conservative minister sat in the Ministry of Justice, where the penalty for serious violence was increased by one third. However, we believe that minimum penalties are something we should be careful to legislate on, and minimum penalties should be reserved for very specific types of crime. It is the task of the court and the judge to find an appropriate punishment equivalent to the crime committed. One problem is often that the penalty framework is not exploited to the extent that we politicians intend when we make legislation. That's a problem. However, there are areas where we want criminals to be punished more severely in general, and that is where we can fulfil it by increasing the penalty by one third or to double it. It's an excellent tool. It is no good that the level of punishment does not reflect the nature of the crime and that the criminals laugh at us because their actions have virtually no consequences. We must strike hard at the perpetrators and become better at exploiting the penalties we have. That is why we are pleased that in 2020 we reached an agreement on further measures to combat madness driving, including a significant increase in the penalties for manslaughter committed in the course of driving madness. It is absolutely crucial for us that we have the victim in focus. Precisely for the victim's sake, it is important that we look at how we can be better at applying the entire penalty framework to each case. We need to be careful about minimum penalties, because we risk losing the nuances of the cases. We need to assess each case and consider how best to meet the needs of the victim and to create the greatest possible justice. The problem with the mild penalties today is for us not to see a lack of minimum penalties; it is rather that we do not make good use of the penalty framework. The Conservative People's Party recognises the intention behind the Danish People's Party's question, and it is an important topic to have a debate, so thank you for that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323175909	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments here either, and in a moment we shall be giving the floor to Mr Beazley. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323175931	As you may have noticed, the legal rapporteur today has a slightly different hairstyle from our usual legal rapporteur, who is unfortunately prevented from being here. But I hope I'll be thanked. I'll try to do as well as I can. Before I joined the Folketing, and it wasn't very long ago, one of the things that I was just looking at as a citizen was this about whether the politicians couldn't take and get some other rules on this. I had this feeling that the sense of justice and justice were not present in our community of law. It was such a fundamental feeling that I had, and I do not think we should overlook the fact that it is out there in the general public. When you look at the issues of the people, you shake your head and say: is this our community of law? Is that our legal system? The sense of justice may have disappeared in some areas. When I've been reading the papers and looking at these things and reading these verdicts, I've shook my head and thought, "Well, can that really be right? Sometimes I have been in favour of reading some of the judgments to see what has been the reason for them to have judged in the way they have done. Sometimes I've gotten smarter, sometimes I just think I've confirmed my immediate attitude and thoughts, that this is really wrong. That's why I understand the desire for you to do these things, so that you want to do this. The question then is whether minimum penalties are the right solution. It may be that it is in some cases, and it may also be that it is not in other cases. There are, of course, a number of areas where we have minimum penalties, and I do not see much controversy about that. Then it is proposed that there are a number of other areas in which minimum penalties should be introduced. I look forward to getting a little closer to that and looking at it in connection with, for example, the situation. rape, where you want to impose a minimum penalty. Because here, at the same time, a new legislation on consent has been drawn up which, in my optics, makes it possible for some people to get into a mess. That is why I am a little worried about how it is going to play along with imposing such a high minimum penalty if it is a general minimum penalty. Maybe you can get smarter. Now I am not the legal rapporteur, but I know that you can judge by either a tough paragraph or a mild paragraph, so you still give the judges away the opportunity to avoid these unfortunate cases. I think it was the honourable rapporteur from the Left who mentioned something about the law of knife and some craftsmen who had got into trouble there. I would like a combination to be found which restored the sense of justice that I think is lacking, while ensuring that there was also the possibility that we did not get these cases, which, with such a somewhat populist expression, might best be described as a crime of justice or something else, because one thinks that it is not fair and that it is simply not connected. So my hope is that you can find some way to combine the two things so that we get our sense of justice back, while giving the judges that opportunity, so that we don't have to think about all this on the part of the Folketing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180309	You're welcome. That is a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180314	It was interesting to hear Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's interpretation of the text. And it seems to me that sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen wants to be creative in order to actually achieve the same goal that the Danish People's Party has: that there will be consistency between the public's legal awareness on the one hand, and then on the other hand the judgments that are actually handed down in Danish courts so far, so well. What you can say is the challenge of that view, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen and New Citizens have here the same view that the government has also taken is that you want to come in and look at some things and look at some things. But the action is missing. That is the challenge, and I would have liked to have it when you say that we have to go in and look at this, that it is critical and that there is no agreement between the public's legal awareness and the court's practice so do something. There I am missing and I would like to hear what New Citizens will take a position on the acute problem we have in Denmark in relation to rape being punished so fairly lightly and that a number of other crimes are punished relatively lightly in relation to what the intention is. And it's not just a coincidence. In relation to rape, there are eight years and there are 12 years in aggravating circumstances. So there's a significantly higher penalty frame... it just isn't being used. What, then, will New Citizens do if they do not want to take part in minimum penalties?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180445-2	After all, we are pragmatists, and if you take note of that, I did not say that we were opposed to minimum penalties. We have this in a large number of areas, in other words, which were mentioned just now, in relation to manslaughter, and it is also true of foreigners, whom I believe must be consistently expelled after the first sentence. This can also be described as a minimum penalty, because it will not allow for interpretation. So we're pragmatic on this. We are not ideological on one side or the other, and that is why I spoke into that sense of justice. So I kind of think we're dealing with it. Now we're not in government, and we're not the ones who have the right to serve this. However, if DF makes a proposal to ensure that in here, the Danish Parliament is given harsh penalties for rape, what we also believe there should be in a large number of cases, while at the same time we do not create an opportunity for there to be people who, with the new consent law, are convicted there and then automatically gets into it. That's why I'm talking about whether there can be two blocks where the judge can judge by the mild and the hard, and then the hard one can be significant, but that still opens up for you to have this opportunity within the mild ones, so we avoid these cases where there is an ex-wife who gets mad at her husband, and says, in relation to the new consent law: If you know what I didn't get consent, last time • boom, then I can throw him in jail for 3 or 6 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180604	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180605	It's very good what New Citizens say here. The problem is, if it means "" and that's what I hear we still have these low penalties." Because there can be no agreement on that, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen says. That is why the Danish People's Party says: OK, for rape it is not 3 years in prison as it is today, no, it is 6 years in prison, and then it is expulsion, always if you commit rape and are not a Danish citizen. I would like to ask you that now we have put forward a proposal for adoption • whether New Citizens will support 6 years, at least for rape, and always expulsion if you are not a Danish citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180645	The policy of new citizens has been that for five years foreigners should be deported consistently after the first sentence. So it may not come as a surprise that we support it. I am not sure that it actually says something about expulsion in that text of adoption. I am glad that the Danish People's Party is mentioning it now, but I do not really think that it says so in that text, I must check whether it says exactly; whether there are also foreigners. Actually, I don't think there is. That is one of the things we thought we would have done on that occasion. But we are glad to take a pragmatic approach, because we believe that some of these penalties are too low. As long as we still have room for us not to get these cases where there's an ex-wife who can throw her husband three years in jail because she's gotten mad at him.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180724	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180726	I can see that it says on the screen: We have an update for you. I hope it is not the Folketing that is being completely updated here; then something is going to surprise me at least. But let it go. I really wanted to ask the questioner about something. I think it was a very objective speech that was made as regards minimum penalties. One of the things that may also be inappropriate interference in the judgements of the courts is, of course, the issue of double sentences, which are very topical at the moment. I have read something quite wise on the rapporteur's facebook page about what is happening with corona crime and double punishment. I have also read something I disagreed with less when I read further on the rapporteur's party leader's facebook page about the same thing. That is why I just want to hear where new citizens are actually standing when it comes to double penalties for crimes committed by an event dealing with coronacriticism, such as criticism of the way in which those in power deal with the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180826	I can refer to what is on my side, but I must honestly admit that I have not read so carefully what is on my party leader's. I'm gonna go home and read it again, that's exactly what the differences are. Then the questioner can give concrete expression to precisely what the difference is? I would very much like to reply and also reply quite precisely, but can the questioner perhaps say quite specifically what the difference between what I have written and what my party leader has written is?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180855	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180857	Now it's both screens where it says we're being updated. I hope it is not because there is an election or something that we are in the process of being updated, but leave it at that. What I read from the rapporteur's party leader was certainly that there was a greater consensus, I sensed, about the assessment that there was to be double punishment in the specific situation. That is why I just want to hear: what is New Citizens' attitude to the double penalty for crime committed by an event of corona criticism, such as criticism of the way in which those in power dealt with the specific situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323180935	As I understand it, nothing gives a double penalty by criticising some authorities or something for a demonstration. The double sentences referred to violence against officials, as I understand it. Well, I'm not a lawyer, but at least that's how I read it: that's what was in that judgment and that's how it was. We are in favour of increasing the penalties for violence against civil servants and increasing them in general. We have no objection to that. I remember when this law came into force... I remember raising it... that the main area of the law was that it was supposed to be a guarantee against people not using financially the aid packages that would come out, because a lot of money had to be paid out really, really quickly. That is what it was all about, and a small element of it was then the matter of violence against civil servants. But it does not say that you should have a double sentence because you speak in a speech or anything else, nor do I remember reading the sentence, as I have said, and I do not know whether the whole transcript of the sentence has even come to light yet. These were the actions which were behind and which were then covered by the second paragraph, namely violence against civil servants. But it had nothing to do with freedom of speech or anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323181044	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no more brief comments. There is no one here from the Liberal Alliance, and then we go to the Justice Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323181110	Thank you, President, and thank you for the debate, which may well be summed up in the fact that, as a society over the past many years, we have moved away from minimum penalties. In the period 1961-2004 alone, 15 minimum penalties have been abolished in the criminal code, which means that today we are in a situation where we have three paragraphs left, which contain minimum penalties, and some have said two today, and others have asked for a little more. But if we look at the penal code, we can see that there are three paragraphs. One is Paragraph 112, where, if a head of state is killed, there is a minimum sentence of 6 years, the other is as it is, among other things. Mr. Peter Skaarup in some questions, section 192a, paragraph 192a. 1, where there is a minimum sentence of 2 years, and finally there is the one most people refer to and know, namely the classic manslaughter clause, § 237, where there is a minimum sentence of 5 years. But the trend and legal developments have been to abandon minimum penalties, and why so? It is, of course, because there is a need on the part of the Folketing to signal the severity of the penalty, and this can be done with the penalty framework, and it has not been a very effective means, but it can be done by saying in the comments what we expect the normal penalty to be. In this way, one achieves a level of punishment that one would like to have, and the courts can take into account the specific circumstances that may exist in the case, which is perfectly reasonable. However, we are left with a situation in which we have a framework of penalties which, in a number of cases, is not fully exploited. And that is also why, in broad, broad agreement, namely in our agreement on police and prosecution, we have said that we simply need to have an independent investigation into the relationship between the criminal framework and the level of punishment and, above all, the legislator's instructions on the punishment, in other words, to ascertain whether what we assume, namely that the courts are actually quite responsive to what the Folketing says, is also true in reality. I think that is a wise consensus that we have reached in the agreement and I look forward to seeing the outcome of that study. Because I am quite convinced that it will show that the right way to go is to continue to indicate what we would like to have as a punishment in the comments to the law. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323181347	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323181349	I am, of course, grateful for our determination to ensure that there will be an independent investigation into the relationship between the penalties and the targeted penalties. But I would just like to arrest what the Minister says that minimum penalties are on their way out. Is it not, in fact, rather the opposite? Actually, I think it was the good old sir. Villy Søvndal, who is now tempting a slightly different political life that struck a hole into the wall in relation to minimum sentences for possession of firearms due to gang crime. After all, it built the Danish People's Party a few years ago together with the previous government on top of which we increased them from 1 year in prison as it was originally, to 2 years in prison. It has sent out a very significant and good signal that is at least what I am told by various police officers to some of the gang criminals, that is to say that it has an effective effect. Then it's just that I'm asking the Minister for Justice, where does it come from, that the Minister for Justice says it's on its way out? On the contrary, we have received more minimum penalties with the two initiatives I have mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323181459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323181459-2	I was also trying to say in my speech that in the period from 1961 to 2004, however, which is a relatively long period, experience has therefore been gained that minimum penalties have been lifted. I actually think it may be that I am wrong, but the way I remember it is that if we go back to the Danish Law, and I know it is so far back that the main rule was that they said what the penalty for the actual infringement is. So I guess it depends a little on the period as you see it in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323181532	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323181533	Yes, but nevertheless, when discussing such a thing, it is quite crucial what has happened in recent years. And it is my clear impression here from the parliamentary work and from the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs that in recent years we have torn ourselves apart from some of the punishments where we have actually thought that we sent a good signal, for example by 8 years and 12 years for rape by aggravating circumstances, and where people today give down around the 3 years in prison. There we have torn ourselves apart from the fact that we are not judging by the penalties, and then it is very good to use the protection that the minimum sentences in recent years have actually been because we have sent a signal. Then the Minister says "normal punishment." Yes, yes, and that is perhaps the possibility, but it is certainly important that we tell the courts what to judge. Because they can't always find out for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323181616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323181616-2	After all, it sounds on the edge of the end of this excellent question debate as if we are approaching each other, recognizing that the comments on the level of penalties in the legislation are an effective means, and that is a sensible way to go. And I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323181639	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is therefore closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 6 April 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323181720	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Industry. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323181732	I would like to start by thanking you for the citizens' proposal here. After all, it is a proposal that fireworks should be handled exclusively by certified fireworks and not used by amateurs for private use. The aim of the proposal is to limit the harmful effects on the environment, climate, animals and people who have fireworks according to this citizens' proposal. In Denmark we have a tradition of celebrating the New Year with fireworks in the sky. It is a celebration that many appreciate and welcome, and there is no doubt that this must of course be done in a sound manner. When we celebrate the New Year, it is important that this is done in a sensible way, because we must, of course, take account of each other and deal with fireworks with caution and respect. In order to ensure the right balance between those who are happy to celebrate the New Year with fireworks and those who feel bothered by fireworks, tighter rules for the sale and use of fireworks were introduced back in 2014. Before 2014 the period of application of fireworks was from 1 December to 5 January. Before 2014, the sales period also started on 1 December. Today fireworks can be purchased from 15 December to 31 December and the period of application has been shortened from 27 December to 1 January. I believe that the existing regulatory framework ensures a balance so that there is room both for those who like to buy and fire fireworks, as well as for those who do not like it. It is important that there is continuous information and communication on safe fireworks behaviour, so that we are better at taking precautions and preventing damage. I would like to emphasise that the government is continuously monitoring developments in this area, in terms of whether there is a need for regulatory adjustments and the efforts of the authorities. For many Danes, the New Year and fireworks are inextricably linked. It is a tradition, and I believe that it must continue to be possible to celebrate New Year's Eve with fireworks in the sky. By the way, this is something that the vast majority of Danes can manage. Of course, there are still fireworks accidents, unfortunately, but the number of accidents is at a stable and actually relatively low level. In connection with the recent New Year, we have seen the lowest number of casualties since the mid-1990s, with a decrease of 27%. from the previous year. I think it is positive that this is a declining trend when it comes to fireworks damage. It is clear that this year, of course, we cannot deny that the coronapandemic has had an impact on the decline in the number of fireworks damage, but of course the impact involved cannot be said with certainty. The falling trend in the number of fireworks damage is, of course, a development which we will make a great effort to continue. In connection with the New Year, the Danish National Security Agency also runs communication campaigns, such as: is committed to changing the behaviour of young men who appear a little too frequently in our accident statistics. In addition, a targeted control effort is being carried out to keep fireworks with faults out of the market. I fully understand that you would like to see the least possible people injured, as I really do, but I believe that with the austerity of 2014, we have found an excellent balance that is more appropriate than a definite ban on all fireworks for private consumers. So, against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182116	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182121	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. Last year, as the Minister says, was a very special year because of corona, so there were probably not so many on the street. If you look at the year before, there were actually 60 children who were injured. Is that acceptable to the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182140-2	No, of course not. That's what I'm saying: we have to figure out a way, I think, to do this where we can have fireworks on New Year's Eve, but where it's going to be in a way that helps each other try to get these accident statistics to go down. It is both about information campaigns; it is about control action against fireworks with faults in which I actually think is running as a sensible offensive by the Security Authority; and then it is also about that the period of application is limited. Those things in combination can probably be further strengthened, but no, of course they are not good numbers, and we must help each other to get them down. But I just don't think that a total ban on fireworks for private New Year's Eve is the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182229	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182230	I am, of course, glad that the Minister acknowledges that this is not acceptable. I think that there might also be the possibility that some fireworks were made around the larger cities, otherwise also in smaller towns where you have professionals to fire it off. But something quite different is the sound, i.e. the load that fireworks give in relation to the loud sounds. There are both people who are psychologically vulnerable and particularly sensitive to sound, and this also applies to many animals, that is to say a lot of animals, and we find it especially in relation to our pets, but it also applies to animals in nature, which are heavily strained by the sound. It doesn't necessarily help a whole lot for them that it's for a shorter period.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182315	No, but there are very many different groups, both humans and animals, to which we must take account and show consideration. We all have to do that when we celebrate New Year and think about how we do it. And I would say that I think that this is as limited as it is, because you shouldn't listen to fireworks out on your street or near where you have your pets as from 1 December, but that it's late December, i.e. that it's concentrated around New Year's. And that is where I think a sensible balance has been struck. Then we will probably be able to do more with regard to controls and campaigns and so on, and we will have to try to investigate this so that we show good behaviour towards each other when we launch the New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182403	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first one is Mr. Malte Larsen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182438	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution we are debating here is a proposal for a parliamentary decision to ban the sale of fireworks for private use in order to limit damage, pollution and nuisances for humans and animals. In Denmark we have the strong and joyful tradition that at every turn of the year we can celebrate the new year's coming with beautiful fireworks in the sky. It is a festive day that is appreciated by the Danes. We have to hold on to that. However, as the motion for a resolution shows, fireworks also cause discomfort. Therefore, the applicable rules were introduced in 2014 to ensure that the period during which fireworks can be purchased and fired is limited and that there is a difference between sales and firing periods. The limited period for the sale and use of fireworks has been specifically decided for the benefit of persons and animals experiencing fireworks nuisances. The difference between the selling and firing periods ensures good and flexible opportunities to buy fireworks as a consumer, but also ensures that the operators selling the fireworks can meet the safety requirements such as: is for transport and storage. As far as the damage caused by fireworks is concerned, it must, of course, be taken very seriously. At the last turn of the year, we have seen a significant drop in the number of people injured in fireworks, in fact the lowest in 25 years. This is probably due to a strengthened and targeted communication effort with campaigns, just as product control and supervision are important in order to detect cases where fireworks suppliers do not meet those requirements. Instead of a full ban on the sale of fireworks for private use, we think it is important that a balance be struck between the consideration of the genes that fireworks can cause on the one hand, but also the pleasures that it gives on the other. This contributes to the current rules and the efforts of the Danish Security Authority with communication campaigns and product control and supervision. Social democracy cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182649	Thank you, sir. Malte Larsen. There are no brief comments. After a thorough despriting, it is possible that Mr. Jan E Jørgensen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, gives his rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182720	Thank you. Nor can the Left support the citizens' proposal. It's not that there's no problem with fireworks. There is. The problems have been reduced and, as has been mentioned, an historically low number of people are being injured. But this does not mean that there are no challenges and problems associated with fireworks: Dogs are not enthusiastic, individual fires are caused by fireworks. It must then be kept up against the fact that it is a tradition we have had for quite many years in Denmark, and that it is something that is beautiful and beautiful and brings joy in not least many, I think I dare say, fathers and their sons' eyes when they set fire to the big battery out on the road. But we recognise that there are different views on fireworks. Some people don't like it, while others like me love it and really will think it would be a shame if we were no longer allowed to fire fireworks. But one must also bear in mind that just because we prohibit fireworks in Denmark, if we chose to do so, one should not think that it disappears. I find it difficult to imagine that the police should be able to stop all those who may choose to drive to Germany and buy illegal fireworks, which are of a different caliber from what can be legally sold in Denmark. There are, among other things: permitted gunfights and other in Germany. So there would probably be a lot of fireworks fired by anyway, but it would then be illegal, and one would risk going out judging family fathers etc. for something that most people regard as relatively innocent after all. So we cannot support the motion for a resolution and think that the restrictions we have made in the period when fireworks must be fired and so on are reasonable enough, but further restrictions are not supported by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182915	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182918	Thank you. What is the rapporteur's view of setting up central firing points, so there is an area where there are professionals to fire fireworks, and so there will be an opportunity for you elsewhere to be free from the sound of the fireworks?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323182936	It is hardly realistic to imagine that a lot of fireworks should be trained which could stand around Denmark and ensure that it was fired. And if people themselves are going to a central firing point to fire fireworks, I must point out that another tradition on New Year's Eve is that people are usually senselessly drunk. Therefore, it is hardly wise to get into a vehicle at least not in your own vehicle to drive to some central firing point. So this is hardly a realistic proposal. We are not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183011	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183013	Of course, I do not think that you should get in a car when you are insanely intoxicated. But we have, of course, got a culture that has developed in the direction of firing fireworks at city parties and big parties, so even though we have defined the firing period to be in connection with the New Year, there are now many other periods where fireworks are also fired.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183036	Now I'm a Copenhagener, and fireworks are fired in Tivoli. When I was a boy, it was every Wednesday and every Saturday. Now it's not that often anymore. It is also something that is being used for weddings etc. That's festive. That's why people do it. It is beautiful and provides an experience and a very special end to a good party. This is something to be applied for in individual cases. We think that's okay. However, we acknowledge that there are some who feel bothered by it, not least by dog owners who can see that dogs are not so excited about the noise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183117	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. However, I can add that on my street there are also mothers and young women who participate actively in the fireworks, so it is not just a sport for the male sex. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183153	Thank you. It is then a citizen's proposal, that is to say it is a proposal that is being discussed here in the Folketing, because there are a great many citizens, voters, people who are interested in social conditions who have considered that this is actually a proposal in which they can see reason. In the Danish People's Party we thus have a great deal of understanding for many of the reasons that people have for supporting a citizen-friendly proposal like this. There are a number of advantages in limiting or definitely removing fireworks. As has already been mentioned, this is undoubtedly something that bothers a number of different animal species, and people who have dogs have probably also experienced that a day like New Year's Eve and also the days up to, and unfortunately also sometimes the days after, may be a bit of a challenge. But from there on, to support a proposal such as this, which categorically goes in and says that we must ban fireworks, the Danish People's Party cannot, unfortunately, support. That is to go too far after all. Some of the things that are to be banned are, of course, what our terminology defines as insignificant fireworks. These are types that are not associated with any kind of danger or risk. I could mention a witch's hut, I could mention a dog-prop gun, I could mention an old-fashioned sun and finally also a star-thrower. Yes, some will, for example. also could say that a match is also fireworks. This is not the characteristic of this citizens' proposal, so we must ban matches. But it is, after all, a little more balanced, compared to the fact that we have seen that there have been major problems with, among other things. battery types, which have been associated with faults and deficiencies, there have been a number of accidents in relation to battery types, which may not have been approved for the Danish market, and there have also been in particular major challenges with illegally imported fireworks, not least cannon strokes in quite massive amounts. It is absolutely the batteries and cannons that make it difficult for many animals when the rest of us think it is festive. If you look at things from an accident statistics, it is true that it is certainly going the right way. If you go back to 1998, there were 457 accidents with fireworks, and the 89 of them were in the category serious. Last year there were only 141 accidents, and fortunately only 24 of them were serious. If you go back to 2016, we'd actually have as many as 279 accidents recorded with fireworks damage. So the figures actually speak their clear language, compared to the fact that considerable efforts have been made to provide more information to people, to users, and there has also been a considerably greater awareness by the Security Authority in terms of approving various products on the market. Then we can also see that fortunately more and more people are going to use batteries as rockets instead of these stick rockets, which we all know from our childhood, where we took one at a time, and then vupti was gone. Then there were times when the bottle rolled over and all that stuff we all know about. Fortunately, there are not so many examples of this anymore. Overall, we believe that it is entirely justified to have the opportunity to celebrate the New Year, but the Danish People's Party has then tabled a motion for a resolution saying that what makes the most sense is that we are restricting the rights to when to use fireworks according to New Year, at least from 31 December to 1 January. We think it is right to limit the firing period to that. So there are some things to work on and, of course, I think we should take this resolution back in committee, and then we should try to see if some of the things can be in harmony with other proposals. We have also seen that there have been some who use different types of fireworks as a form of small arms, i.e. people firing fireworks after the fire department, after the post, after Falck and also after the police and even after private ones. It is clear that when fireworks are used as a form of small arms in order to deliberately harm other people, it must of course be extremely severely sanctioned. So there are things in this citizens' proposal in which there is good sense, but a definite ban cannot be supported by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183710	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183714	Thank you to the rapporteur. I welcome the fact that the rapporteur recognises the idea behind the citizens' proposal, but the chain is a little off when the rapporteur goes on to talk about sparklers. Perhaps it does not seem very appreciative to me: what is the reason for the rapporteur's mention of star-throwers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183736	I mentioned gunfights, I mentioned batteries, I mentioned starfighters, I mentioned witchhyls, I mentioned dogguns, it's all fireworks, in my best judgment it's all fireworks. And I think it is important that when we mention the things that give rise to the major problems, that is to say those that we could see the purpose of perhaps banning, we should also look at all the types of fireworks which at all do not involve any risk in relation to use, and here these examples are covered. So I think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183812	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183814	I can just say at my own expense that I don't consider star throwers or dog corks as fireworks. In fact, I also think the rapporteur made many good arguments, among others. that fireworks have great consequences and high costs for many when they are used as weapons. However, what is the rapporteur's view of the progress being made in firing on more and more occasions? Is that okay with DF?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183845	Yes, where people hire a fireworks to fire fireworks in connection with a wedding or a city party or other things, we think it can make a great deal of sense to fire fireworks, and then, of course, you get permission to do so under the conditions and requirements that must then apply. I think that's good sense. Then I would like to reply to the second question about what Mrs Susanne Zimmer considers to be fireworks: that is what we need to clarify in relation to the resolution. In other words, if you go in and look at the definition of fireworks, you see that there are more types of fireworks than just cannon strikes and rockets, and I think Mrs Susanne Zimmer should be aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183926	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to know whether any of my colleagues are speaking on behalf of the SF in this matter. Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323183945	Thank you for the floor. First, there must be a huge thank you for addressing an important issue. This citizen's proposal gathered 50,000 signatures quickly, and it also means that there are a lot of people who have an opinion and an attitude towards fireworks. This is a debate that is often recurring. As we approach New Year, we talk a lot about it, and when we're over New Year, we forget about it. Generally speaking, we in the SF believe that a total ban on fireworks could well be a solution, but at the same time we would also say that it is not a grip we will resort to straight away. In general, we think that the current legislation is too weak, so we would like to start by tightening up in order to subsequently evaluate and keep an eye on what happens then. When I point to a tightening up today, I can say that we could impose a ban on rockets, mostly because experience shows that the greatest damage is caused by rockets. After all, we could look to our Scandinavian neighbours, who have made use of the removal of the rockets with a very fine result, namely to reduce the damage. I can also mention Aalborg fireworks factory, which has already announced at this stage that they do not want to make rockets in the years to come. We could also point to a tightening around the time of launch. It has been mentioned by the DF today, i.e. that you can only shoot at 31 December. So these were some of the suggestions. At the same time, we also want to say that it is very important to continue an increased campaign against young people in particular, because the obligation to provide information is very important about fireworks. There's no doubt that this is something that separates the waters. To come back to the proposal, we can also see that we often fill our animals with sedatives. We also have sick people who think this is really difficult and is max. pressure during these periods. So in the SF we say yes to start off by tightening the grip on the law on fireworks, and here we want to start. So the proposal that lies here cannot be supported by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323184210	Thank you to Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323184234	Thank you. It's always nice to have a citizen's proposal, also because it really makes you have to think about some things that you might not have spent so much time thinking about or else here the fireworks legislation. And just to be honest, it wasn't exactly what I spent the most time on before this citizen's proposal came up. So it's nice to have a reason for that. For me, it's really important that there's a good balance in these things that there's a balance in allowing you to have the New Year's party you want to have and celebrate it with fireworks, but that we also take into account those who are not so fond of fireworks. And I have to admit that, as a starting point, I think that there is some balance in the legislation that exists today, that is to say, where it can be bought from 15 to 31 December and then it has to be dropped from 27 December to 1 January. I am actually also reasonably open to whether to look at whether there are some things where we can tighten up and where there can be some better balance. I would like to take part in this, but I do not think that we should simply ban fireworks for private use. Now there have been mention of these places in towns around, and I think we should also remember that not everyone lives in the cities. I also think it is fair to want to fire some fireworks of other places, but I am open to some of the things that are being mentioned, and I have also become aware of some things, in relation to whether you could go in and investigate which types of fireworks that are most appropriate are allowed, and whether there is something that is more harmful than what is good, whether we can do anything further to take care of our environment when fireworks are fired off. And all these things we would like to share in trying to see if we can get a better light. But as this citizen's proposal is here, I think it tips to the wrong side and therefore Radicals do not support the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323184502	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323184505	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. A lot of emphasis is placed on balance, but where is the balance when you live in the city and for a period of 3-4 days must be prepared for fireworks to come during the days and during the evenings and nights? So, is the balance to be moved somewhere else during that period, or what does the rapporteur think the balance is there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323184531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323184533	Well, I think that the balance for me lies in the fact that there are a lot of other days when you do not have fireworks and you know that there is not, unless special permits have been granted for special events. That is why I think that the balance there is, of course, that we take into account all those who are bothered by it, but that we also take into account those who then think that it is part of the party that it is part of it. If we can then look at how that party is made better and safer, we would of course like to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323184606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323184608	Then I've been thinking about something that we haven't mentioned, and it's all the garbage that's in town and in the countryside after we've had New Year's Eve. Well, it's everywhere. On the one hand, it is a mess, an environmental mess, and on the other hand it costs labour to pick it up. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323184628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323184628-2	I think, first of all, that we should be better at thinking that we should also clean up after ourselves after New Year. It should actually be the same as everything else that we pick up after ourselves. But I also agree that it looks like shit when it's out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323184647	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. I understand that the Enhedslisten has upgraded to have the whole of two rapporteurs, but I also understand that it is Mrs Victoria Velasquez who is the rapporteur on the matter itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323184706	Thank you, President. It is not the case with legislative proposals that can have little to do with the area of justice, animal welfare, the business sector and all sorts of different things to do. Well, I'm not pulling this out anymore. As the citizens' proposal shows, there are many harmful effects on the environment, climate, animals and people when individuals shoot for millions of dollars of fireworks around New Year, and that is why we in the Enhedslisten have on several occasions both in the public debate and in debates in this Chamber had the opportunity to express the Enhedslisten's position on the fireworks issue. We do not believe that there is any reason why private individuals should be firing fireworks, which is why I am also pleased that we are today debating a citizens' proposal on this particular issue. However, I can hear that there is not necessarily a great deal of support in this House for a definite ban, but I wonder if we can find some way of striking the right balance in the committee's work on this proposal, in other words to take account of the fact that soldiers who have returned from war react to it or that animals react to it. Perhaps we can agree to find a way to limit the use of fireworks so that it does not have the major consequences that the way it is used today has. It may well be that today there are only a few days around New Year where fireworks are allowed to be fired, but the period when fireworks can be bought is much longer, and that also unfortunately means in practice that rockets and other things are fired outside the period. I think everyone here can confirm that otherwise you may need a hearing aid. And here I am not just talking about illegal cannon battles, which are generally a major problem, especially among young people. This is a separate problem that we need to solve, but in concrete terms we have a problem with legal fireworks, which families of young children are enjoying firing off on the villa road or in the garden outside the legal period. There could be a solution to limit the period during which you could buy the fireworks. We can, of course, take a closer look at this in committee. In relation to environmental and animal ethical considerations, one could also look at whether it is really necessary for rockets to be fired from anywhere in Denmark. You could introduce a wider protection zone than those that we now have, or vice versa, you might say that we actually have some zones where fireworks can be fired, in order, as in this way, to harm the environment and animals as little as possible. At any rate, there are many opportunities for us to do better in the future than we are doing today, and I look forward to the further debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185007	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185012	Yes, thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for expressing an opinion that I can easily share. And I'm thinking that the idea of making central firing points, so you know where it is, could well have its way on earth. Because if you now look at soldiers who have been sent out to war and who have contracted post-traumatic stress, then there is, like, no way to accommodate it unless you have some areas from which they can move. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185040	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185041	Yes, but I also think it is important that we do it in a good way, so that it is not the case that we should go far away and that it can almost be dangerous in itself, because everyone has to crawl together in those areas where there will then be fireworks. But I think that you can land a good way of doing it, so that you can, for example, do it. as a veteran who has war traumas, has the opportunity to take away from that place. So, yes, I think it will be possible to land it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185108	Thank you to Mrs Victoria Velasquez and welcome to Mrs Birgitte Bergman from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185125	Thank you. Today we are debating a resolution on banning the sale of fireworks to private individuals, which has been tabled on the basis of a citizens' proposal. The citizens behind the proposal believe that fireworks have no useful value and only harmful consequences for the environment, climate, animals and people. Therefore, fireworks should be handled exclusively by certified fireworks and not used for private use and not by amateurs. In the context of the citizens' proposal there are many sympathetic parts, and I understand very well that animals may have difficulty in a certain period of time. However, I also believe that current legislation ensures a sound fireworks market and that a ban will simply make illegal sales more accessible and make it much more dangerous. I would like to touch on the arguments in the citizens' proposal and also respond to the proposal that has been put forward by the citizens. One of their arguments is that fireworks are produced in China and that child labour is often involved in production. To that I would say that child labour and general working conditions in China are, of course, something that needs to be taken seriously. A Danish ban on fireworks will have no effect on this. At least we don't think so. Instead, Denmark may have to, together with the EU or other allies, press China to improve human rights in that country. We have already proposed abolishing or reducing aid to China. The citizens then talk about CO2 Most of the Danish fireworks consumption takes place in connection with New Year's Eve. This is therefore primarily one day when the fireworks are used, which must be said to have a limited CO2 There are many other places where you can take hold of CO2 Of course you can inform about fireworks CO2 When it comes to reducing CO2 emissions, they say that fireworks are often handled by drunken people. The number of fireworks injuries on New Year's Eve is generally decreasing. This may indicate that we have become better at handling fireworks safely. In addition, it can be pointed out that you cannot ban anything potentially harmful or potentially handled by drunken people. Fireworks on New Year's Eve are an important tradition and a ban can only be justified if something has massive negative consequences. The right way to go is information, not prohibition. In addition, every year a major campaign is launched by the Danish Security Authority on the safe use of fireworks as we approach 31 December. The citizens then say that fireworks have been used in the past year to attack police, fire brigade and random people. This is a worrying development, but the answer to this must first of all be to take tough action against those who abuse fireworks. It can never be accepted, but few people's stupidity should not destroy it for all those who use fireworks occasionally and responsibly, mainly on New Year's Eve. We must not have collective punishment, criminals must be punished individually. Then they say that the fireworks accident in Seest can happen again. It was, of course, a terrible accident that happened more than 16 years ago, and there has been a lot of tightening up on the rules following the disaster in Seest. When I'm going out to buy fireworks for New Year's Eve, I'm going out to a field to buy it. Fireworks on New Year's Eve are a tradition, and it is already only legal to use fireworks during the period from 27 December to 1 January if you are a general consumer. And then I can only encourage everyone to go out on 1 January and clean up better. I will admit to the citizens behind the proposal that it looks like something worse out there on the streets and streets and on villa roads. The Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposed restriction and therefore does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185544	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185549	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur recognise that there are noise problems in connection with New Year's Eve? Where I am, it's not just New Year's Eve that happens a few days before, and it does the next day. What is the rapporteur's view of noise nuisances both to animals and to humans? Are they just gonna live with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185611-2	I recognise that this can be a problem, especially for our animals and also for some people. But to ban fireworks we simply do not support it. We need to take account of each other, and we only have to fire off during the period when it is legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185630	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Birgitte Bergman. After a despriting, I would like to welcome Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Civil Society and the rags are not intended for personal care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185705	Yes, thank you. I am also pleased with the citizens' proposals, but they are not all of them with which I fully agree, and this is probably one of them with which I do not entirely agree. I would also say that now I have had a dog, actually several dogs, for many years, so I know that it can be a liability. In the old days we fixed it by pouring a single can of beer or two over dog food, and then the dog fell asleep out there, and then there was no problem with it. We must no longer do so; we must finally not give it half a lager, so it sleeps. So now we need those tranquilizers for them and everything else, and then you can do it, and that's the way we do it here in 2021. And otherwise you can do what I actually did for many years, namely that because of my dog I went to the cottage New Year's Eve, and then I was out there, and there wasn't so much shooting and spice and stuff. Perhaps we should relax the rules a little bit. If people could buy even bigger batteries, it might be that people wouldn't fire so many of them and not do it so many times, and then there might be fewer injuries. So if you could go that way, maybe it was the right thing to do. So I understand the genes, and I also hear that some people are going to get hurt. But I must also say that people should also not be fools. We cannot legislate about it because people choose to stand with two rockets in their hands and say: Hey, Happy New Year! 'Cause then there's gonna be damage. And we should not go into banning that from the state. I mean, we should not ban stupidity, although I know that some socialists would like to try. So we're not going to support this proposal. We acknowledge that there is a problem with But otherwise you have to live with it; we live in a beautiful land that celebrates New Year, and we shall continue to do so. Four out in Harlev. Because that's where I live, and then you can start there, and then I don't have to go that far for it, if that's what you do. So it was just a small suggestion if you go that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185914	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. I do not see any representatives of the Liberal Alliance, but Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups, as it is called, but as a member of the Free Greens, has asked for the floor as a privateist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323185940	Thank you for the floor. This is a citizen's proposal against the sale of fireworks to private people. In fact, in the Free Greens, we had had the same proposal made, with a slightly greater limitation, in relation to the fact that cultural institutions and public bodies were only allowed to fire for limited periods. That's what we pulled because it was so close to this. In the Free Greens we look with great earnestness at fireworks and the consequences that result from them. Fireworks have many negative consequences for society, nature and individuals, which is why we need to address and regulate it. This is especially true now that more and more events are being fired from silver weddings to city parties. Unfortunately, injuries are a natural consequence of fireworks. Every year, a great many citizens get hurt, which for some causes consequences for the rest of their lives. In New Year 2020 228 were sent to the emergency room due to fireworks, and 27 of the cases were serious, and 9 of them were children under 18 years of age. The year before it was 60 injured children who are now living with physical and-or mental injuries to some extent. We cannot be familiar with that. As adults, we must take responsibility and ensure that those children do not get hurt by fireworks. We also have adults who suffer from fireworks. Sound-sensitive person, psychologically vulnerable people and people who have been in war zone and who have contracted post-traumatic stress syndrome. But it is not only children and adults who suffer from consequences; it is also animals. Fireworks have negative effects on animals, fireworks often cause stress and anxiety and cause violent reactions and panic attacks in both pets and wild animals. Moreover, the waste from fireworks can be dangerous for pets and wild animals and is located everywhere and not necessarily where it has been fired. For nature and the environment, fireworks are also a burden. Fireworks pollute both in production, in its packaging, in incineration itself and as waste on the streets and in nature. We cannot argue that it is fair for us people who need fireworks to have that need met at the expense of other people, our livestock and wild animals or the environment. In many other countries, bans and restrictions are also being considered. There are more countries that have more restrictions on the use of fireworks than we have in Denmark. In the United States there are several states where it is prohibited to buy fireworks for private individuals. In France, several municipalities and cultural institutions are behind fireworks shows. So there is inspiration to retrieve several places in the world where it works fine. It is time for us here in the Danish Parliament to hear the wishes of the people to limit fireworks, which we in the Green Group fully agree with. According to several opinion polls and surveys by various organisations and media, there is a desire on the part of the public to limit fireworks to a greater extent than is being done today. According to one Epinion survey, 67 per cent say that small fireworks should be fired for New Year, and in another study almost 50 per cent think. of those who have been asked that there should be a total ban on fireworks. We Greens want to take responsibility for all those people who are at risk of harm in the use of fireworks or, moreover, suffer from the sounds. We want to stop the risk of our children being harmed by the use of fireworks, and we want to help animals and nature by reducing the use of fireworks. Let us take joint responsibility and reduce the use of fireworks. Of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323190328	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323190333	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I certainly recognise some of the arguments that Mrs Susanne Zimmer uses in relation to, among other things. animal welfare and all the families with whom I can definitely recognise the frustration that is, of course, when there is too much noise for a few days, for example up to New Year. I have also noted that the rapporteur used the concepts of noise nuisance and also the environmental issue as arguments for it, and I would just like to hear what the Greens' position is on this in relation to, for example, the environment. Distortion here in Copenhagen and in relation to huge demonstrations. We've just had a whole month, when people have been wearing pot lids and clamping out here in the Palace Square. So, what is the party's attitude that we have people who demonstrate and also make noise? You can, for example. as a former soldier having post-traumatic stress and living in Copenhagen and listening to the noise that was out here. Does the rapporteur also believe that demonstrations should be banned?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323190433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323190435	Now I would like to say first of all that this proposal is about fireworks and not all sorts of other things. If you were to go into it at last, I would say that where there are demonstrations there is a limited area. So you can discuss everything else, but this is about fireworks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323190449	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323190451	However, the rapporteur made this a debate on noise and environmental pollution, and the environment is also noise. Noise is a form of environmental pollution. We know that people get stress from noise, unnecessary noise, and that is why it is fair enough to take it in as a logical question and say that if the Free Greens believe that we should ban it here, what there are many good reasons for, then I just think that we should go all in and say that we should also ban other types of noise pollution, such as unnecessary noise in demonstrations, and look at why they are standing and making noise out here in the Palace Square for 30 days with pot lids.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323190528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323190529	I still want to hold on to the fact that this is about fireworks. If we start talking about everything else, we can also talk about noise from motorways. So it doesn't make sense to start taking this up now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323190539	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323190552	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323190612	Thank you. The motion for a resolution, B 125, which we are about to discuss, has been tabled by the Danish People's Party. It wants to require the government to take the necessary initiatives to ensure that all web shops operating on the Danish market, whether they are a usual web shop or an online marketplace, follow the same legislation in terms of consumer protection and VAT rules. The government believes that Danish consumers should be shielded from dangerous and harmful products, and it is whether you are shopping online or in physical shops. But we cannot support B 125, and I would like to try to explain a little more why. The digital economy, including trade via online shops, is basically cross-border. By introducing national rules it is likely that we will restrict trade through online shops in an inappropriate way, and if the proposal is adopted here, we risk putting Danish online shops at a disadvantage in competition in the internal market without really being able to hold the foreign platforms to account. That's the dilemma in this case. In order to ensure the most effective solution, the government wants primarily to lay down requirements at EU level in the context of the negotiations on the regulation of an internal market for digital services that are in progress right now. It is also the Digital Services Act, or DSA, as it is also called. In this context, greater requirements must be laid down for online market sites in relation to the flow of information. So you can say it's easy to say, but is something going on? Actually, there is. The government is working specifically to ensure that this DSA includes: are required that the platforms proactively make efforts to track down and remove illegal product from their marketplaces; that the products taken down do not reappear; and that the platforms cooperate with the responsible authorities. At the same time, the government is working to ensure that the platforms verify the identity of sellers on the platform, so that the right ones can also be held accountable. In addition to working with the DSA, our ambition is that a new European product safety legislation should ensure that those who play an active role in making products available to European consumers are also those who can be subject to responsibilities that can actually be enforced in practice. In addition, the EU's new market surveillance regulation, which will come into force this summer, also provides a new and better framework for monitoring the safety of products, which specifically addresses online trade. So, in relation to the part about VAT rules, it is true that the VAT rules in force actually create a certain competitive disadvantage between companies in the European Union and outside the European Union, which allows for VAT fraud. For this reason, I had fortunately said that the new VAT rules for e-commerce will enter into force on 1 January. July 1st this year. The new rules aim to create fair competition and reduce VAT avoidance and fraud. And some of these rules are aimed at precisely electronic marketplaces, platforms, etc., such as: Wish and Amazon, which are also referred to in the B proposal. Specifically, the new VAT rules include, firstly, that the current de minimis limit of DKK 80. in the case of imports of products from third countries, they shall be abolished. This means that all companies have to pay VAT from the first crown. Secondly, a common and lower e-distance selling limit is introduced, and distance selling limits govern when an EU company selling to consumers in another EU country has to pay VAT in its own country and in the consumer's country respectively. This means that much more sales will be taxed in the consumer countries in the future. Thirdly, the new VAT rules will mean that when goods are sold from third countries through electronic marketplaces and platforms etc., the platforms, not the individual third country companies, but the platforms, will be responsible for settling VAT on the goods sold. As requirements for storage etc. are introduced at the same time. In addition to the information on sales, there will also be increased control possibilities. So overall, the government is of the opinion that the new VAT rules will have a significant positive competitive impact on Danish net shops and at the same time reduce VAT cheating significantly. Therefore, the government considers that no further VAT measures are currently needed in relation to e-commerce. To sum up briefly: We fully agree with the proposers that Danish consumers must of course be protected from dangerous and harmful products, whether they buy them online or in physical shops. We keep an eye on whether there are national measures that can help to strengthen this protection, but the solution does not exist by putting Danish web shops at a disadvantage in competition in the internal market, and therefore we cannot support the B proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191153	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191156	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to the motion for a resolution. Of course, I do not think that the Minister is taking the right approach to this resolution. It is the case that, in the current EU, there are negotiations on new rules for online platforms, and online markets are placed in the same category as other online platforms, such as Facebook and YouTube. This is untenable, because it means precisely that consumers will not be given the legal status that we have, and there is no mention of a sufficient degree of safety in relation to the products that then cross borders. That is why I would like the Minister to reflect on whether this does not make sense in the negotiations that are going on and where Denmark has a vote • we are paying at least 4.5 billion. kr. extra a year now on top of the others, what is it, 19 billion? kr., so maybe they will start listening to us; I am an eternal optimist in this regard to be prepared to have that division secured.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191304	I am always optimistic, and that is what I share with the rapporteur about the fact that it makes a difference when we take the floor and push. And what we are pushing with right now is precisely to try in a good way to put both consumers, but of course also Danish traders in this field, better by ensuring that we create a common regulation across the EU. And, of course, we must also look at how the actual division takes place. After all, there is going to be a committee reading on this B proposal, and there we can also try to delve deeper into the concrete approach that is being adopted in Europe. But politically, I can at least say that the government is very concerned about us and that is why I say it as openly as I do and agree with the intentions of this proposal. But it is regulation at European level that must carry us through, and we are pushing it on eternal optimists as we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191407	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191409	Yes, some might use the word naive instead, I would say in this case, because the Minister is using his answer to again highlight the competitiveness of Danish companies vis-à-vis other foreign Internet trading providers. And it is a known mistake, I actually think, because you can't use the Danish companies as those who have to take the lead in relation to it. It is indeed the Danish shops that are experiencing quite unfair and unhealthy competition, and then the Minister uses it as an argument to ensure that Danish companies have better competition, by waiting for something that is going on elsewhere than in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191459	Well, it's all about if you implement this B proposal, you hit Danish companies, but not the others. And that is why I say that I fully understand the intention, and I actually believe that we share it or rather we do, because I can hear that we do it, but the B proposal is just not the right answer to it. What you have to go in and regulate is something that we are working for, among other things, that the new rules. should contribute to the sale in online markets of fewer products that do not comply with the rules on product safety and other things, because what does that mean? This means that where you can find out how to make decent products, and that is among other things. In Denmark, you will then have a competitive advantage. So there is no doubt that we are also working for the Danish companies in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191540	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191547	In the Left, we share the Minister's view that this is something that needs to be sorted out in the EU. But I just heard the Minister say again: fewer dangerous products must be sold. After all, we in the Left have put a number of questions to the Minister about this particular area, and I do not understand the level of ambition of the Minister, that is to say that fewer dangerous products have to be sold. In the Left, we believe that zero dangerous products should be sold on these online market platforms. So will the Minister confirm whether it is less products to be sold or whether the level of ambition is equal to that of the Left and that it is zero products that the Minister takes down into the EU and negotiates an agreement home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191634	Of course, dangerous products should not be sold, because it is in the word that dangerous products are dangerous. I was out watching a toy store here in Denmark. It was such a online store where they said that the problem with some of this cheap shit you can buy around is that it might be cheap, but if you have such a toy that there's too long a leash on, then your child can suffocate. I don't want to sell things like that at home. So I fully agree with the Left on that level of ambition. I could then add that we are actually moving on to this agenda. It is, of course, our Security Board, and by ours I mean our joint here in Esbjerg, which are some of the ones we are really looking at at at European level, in terms of screening the network for dangerous products and then pulling them off the shelves, if that is the case. So here we must keep a high level of ambition; we must take the lead, and we are already doing so. The good news is that it also benefits decent Danish companies, because they can find a way to produce toys where children cannot be strangled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191737	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191739	After all, I heard that the minister of the former rapporteur said "frights': now I hear the Minister saying that there must be no one It is so now that if you are a European online market platform, you have to meet the product safety requirements that we have in this country and in the European Union, but they should not do so when they come from outside. So can the Minister agree that there should be zero dangerous products? We should not wait for the accident to happen until we take off the products. We must have zero dangerous products sold on online marketplaces and that is the negotiating mandate that the minister takes down to the EU with him.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191814	In relation to what we are taking to the European Union, I think it is already divided or we will make sure it is. I share the ambition which the rapporteur of the Left has mentioned here, and it is also true that if you want to go down to zero, there will also be fewer products. For today there is still a basis for active action here, and it is an effort that will benefit consumers, but also benefit Danish companies. I feel that everyone must comply with the rules on product safety. Of course it is difficult to deal with outside the EU, but that is why we should not throw our ambitions overboard. We should keep them intact and I can almost hear that we share the level of ambition here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191856	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Business. Then we start with the rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Malte Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323191925	Thank you for the floor. And thank the proposers who, with the proposal, want to ensure consumer protection and good conditions of competition for Danish trading companies. We are in complete agreement with that. The proposers problematize, among other things, that international online marketplaces communicate and sell products that do not comply with Danish product safety rules and consumer rules. It also points out that certain companies are circumventing the VAT rules. Therefore, the proposers want all web shops operating on the Danish market to follow the same legislation regarding product safety and VAT, regardless of whether it is a usual web shop or an online marketplace. Social democracy agrees with the important intentions behind the proposal. The challenge of establishing national rules, however, is that it can put Danish companies at a disadvantage in the internal market, because much trading, including trade via online shops, is very much cross-border. That is why we believe that the best approach to ensuring more uniform and effective enforcement is through EU legislation. Negotiations on a regulation on a single market for digital services, as the Minister also mentioned, have recently begun here. The government is working through this to set greater requirements for online marketplaces for the benefit of Danish consumers. In order to ensure consumer protection, it is also important that we take action against the sale of dangerous and illegal products from third countries sold to European consumers. That is why the government has an ambition that products should not be put at risk on the European market for which no responsibility can be placed. Finally, on the challenge raised by the authors of the motion for a resolution, in relation to companies which circumvent the VAT rules, I would like to point out that this summer new VAT rules will enter into force which aim at creating fair conditions of competition and reducing VAT avoidance and fraud. Because of the cross-border nature of trade in online markets, Social Democracy therefore supports the fact that rules that need to be regulated and that affect the digital economy are set at EU level. Therefore, in order not to put Danish companies at a disadvantage in the internal market by setting up national rules, the Social Democratic Party does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192152	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192156	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur a little bit about what the rapporteur has said, and which the Minister also mentioned, in relation to the fact that the government and the Socialists are very much aware of the fact that in the toolbox there will now be more scope for increased control and for combating fraud. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is aware of the amount of additional funds that are being set aside, not only in order to ensure that the rules on improved controls are in place, but also that more checks are being made. In addition, I would also like to ask the rapporteur about the sanctions that can then be expected in cases where there may be fraud. What is the position of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament on the sanctions that will then have to be imposed, and what we already know is that many of these fines will end up not being paid? How will the Socialists ensure that the three elements are improved?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192257	After all, it is absolutely certain that it has been part of the effort that we have wanted and on which we have gone to the polls, and which has also been delivered since then, that we, for example, have been able to do something about it. in the area of VAT, several employees in the Danish Tax Office are putting in place to check that this work on the actual payment of VAT is also going to work. For the rapporteur is quite right in saying that if we set up rules without wishing to sanction them, it is of course not important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192322	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192324	Thank you. In other words, the rapporteur believes that there is a
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192345	What I am saying is that the Danish Tax Office is being strengthened with an additional 1,000 employees over a four-year period, after a very long period of time, in which we have systematically tried to saw our tax administration so that control was not existing and that at some point the population loses confidence in one of the fundamental elements of our welfare society. We have changed that because we want to strengthen confidence that things can be done. The rapporteur then challenges me in individual areas. There I am not in a position to say whether it is exactly here or elsewhere that control is going to take place, but of course it has to be done in a way so that we can all be comfortable with what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192427	The next brief remark is to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192433	As I also said to the Minister earlier, we in our party agree that this is an EU matter. However, we are still a little worried about the level of ambition, and I have no more questions for the Minister, so the rapporteur is now getting some from my long line of questions. It's just the same for being in on it. Because we can take the example of the Wish platform I think we all know the one who sells diet pills, dentistry products, electronics, cosmetics, toys and much more, i.e. all that stuff in it works, and much of it doesn't comply with the law. One is that it may not work, but something else is that it can be directly dangerous. If you as a consumer go in and buy it, you can see that it is in Danish and you simply cannot see that this is something foreign that is not dangerous or that is something worse. That is why I would like to hear: can we please put the bar higher? In other words, will the government work to ensure that at least consumers are informed that they are not protected by EU rules when they go in and trade in these places?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192539	After all, I have six children myself, some of them sometimes act on the Internet, sometimes some strange things come into my home, and I have been wondering for a long time that this could be done at all. Yes, perhaps it was also a process that could have been started many years ago that we are actually going to have to limit this. That hasn't happened. However, I am delighted that what we are doing here at EU level, after all, will mean that we will have a safer future. Then the rapporteur asks if I can guarantee anything. We live in a very changing world where digital criminals have a much greater imagination and sometimes also creativity than any of us who regard us as law-abiding citizens ever come close to. So that's why it might often be the case that we come necky a little later. However, I am delighted that we are in the process of solving these issues and that the government of the European Union is actively working to ensure that we get through better legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192637	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192639	What I fear is that the government will come down there and then act too little, too late and too unambitious. So that's why I'm just trying to figure out where the level of ambition is with the government. Yes, I have now got the Minister to say that we are going down there with a negotiating mandate where we want zero errors in the product and they should not be put on. When it comes to such a platform, will you also work directly to ensure that, when it is all written in Danish, it can be seen that here you are not protected by the EU? It's really just that. Do you want to work for it? Do you want to do your best and your best? Come on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192717	I certainly think I heard the Minister say that we are going to the European Union to work to ensure that this is not possible in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192724	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192728	I should just like to ask whether the rapporteur can explain in such a low-practical way how it is detrimental to the competitiveness of Danish companies that foreign companies have to meet the safety requirements of the Danish market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192739	If we in this country now make some very sharp demands which mean that our own companies are not allowed to trade with a product that you can trade with out in the European Union I do not have the imagination to imagine what that might be, but of course I am listening to it being an option that is • then we are going to put ourselves in a worse position than other European companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192759	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192800	Yeah, but that's not what we're talking about here. There is talk here of living up to the current rules, which are in Denmark for foreign companies. So it is not a deterioration of the Danish conditions that foreign companies have to meet the conditions that are in Denmark. So that's not exactly what I asked. But I ask how it is detrimental to Danish companies' competitive conditions that foreign companies must comply with the rules that we have in Denmark at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192823	I note that the strongest way we can solve this is to ensure that dangerous products cannot enter Europe and that we have everything under control that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192838	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is from the Left. Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323192901	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this important issue of ensuring that Danish and foreign online shops and marketplaces are subject to the same rules in terms of consumer protection. This is an area on which the Left also has a great deal of focus. There should be no doubt that in the Left we have great sympathy for the resolution. All Danish consumers must be able to be safe when buying goods online. It is therefore not reasonable for online outlets to allow traders from China and other Asian countries to put their goods on the market without checking whether they comply with EU rules and without being responsible to consumers. In the end, it could put the lives and health of consumers at risk, and we have already seen horrible examples of PC batteries that suddenly burst into fire, and toys with a harmful chemical level or asphyxiation risk. It's scary reading when the Consumer Council Think can show that 66 percent. of tested products from the well-known online market platforms failed in testing. This concerns, among other things: on smoke alarms that could not warn of fire, light chains that shocked and toys for young children where it was easy to swallow batteries. At the same time, the lack of legislation from online platforms outperforms the law-abiding Danish and European importers as well as retail shops that spend a lot of resources to ensure that the goods comply with the rules. In the Left we therefore share the Danish People's Party's concern that these companies' offences may ultimately lead to the loss of Danish jobs and shop deaths. There is no doubt that the government has not done enough in this area. I myself have previously asked the Minister for Industry about the matter, where the answer was that the government is working on the sale of fewer products that do not comply with the product safety rules in online markets. It is not enough, in the view of the Left, that the government will only work to ensure that fewer dangerous products are sold. It should simply not be possible or lawful to put dangerous products on the market to Danish consumers. That is why the Left does not see it as a solution simply to oblige online market places to remove dangerous goods more quickly; it is far too late in the process. And Danish consumers should not risk becoming guinea pigs for harmful products. The Left therefore has great sympathy for the Danish People's Party's proposal, and the Left takes the view that the problem must be resolved through the EU with a high level of ambition. It should simply not be possible or lawful to put dangerous products on the market to Danish consumers. The Left looks forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193135	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193139	Thank you. Of course, I am sorry that the answers received from both the Left and the Socialists are simply that we need more EU, in other words, in many of the other EU countries we unfortunately have more EU than we have in Denmark. In such a country as Germany, for example. Amazon's entry into the market was experienced in a year that it took about 24 per cent. of the retail trade. So you can't just say, I think, that now we are making more demands on the European Union and that you just have to see what we can do. What is the problem is, of course, that we are standing in here talking and talking and that companies are being competed out of business. And it will not be better if there are even more multinational foreign market platforms that go in and trump the legislation we have in Denmark. There is certainly an improvement in the competitive situation of Danish companies compared with that of their competitors in other countries. Why can't the Left support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193242	Now I do not quite know what the rapporteur has heard the Left say, but we have at least said that we have very much sympathy for this proposal. The fact that we are great advocates of the European Union is, of course, because, with all due respect for the wonderful country in which we live, we simply do not believe that we, as a small country, can do a hell of a lot about Wish, which is one of the world's great platforms and has billions of products. And what do we do? We can go down into the big European Union and there we can negotiate, and that is also why I am extremely interested in what the minister is going down with, what negotiating mandate, what level of ambition he is going down with. And I think that if you ask the Minister who has asked the most questions about the level of negotiation in this area, the answer is not DF, but Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193326	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193328	Well, it's nice to ask a lot of questions. So, time went by! ▪ Action, is the Left not in favour of action? What is the point of asking a lot of questions and saying that now we have to go down to the European Union and now we are putting on the big high hat? The problem, of course, right here outside the door, and it seems that the Left should only be dealt with with with a lot of questions, and then the Minister's officials should sit and write on old typewriters and everything else and give answers to it. What's the point?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193404	Now I don't know which calculators you write over at the Ministry over there, the minister himself has to answer that. But yes, we demand action, and I do not think the Minister is in any doubt as to what kind of action we demand from him in particular, and we have high expectations. He may be optimistic, but we expect him to come home with a proper negotiating mandate and that something is happening in this area and that it is happening now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193425	There are no further follow-up questions. And there are no more brief comments either. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Ina Strejer-Schmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193519	It's nice to get on before the Radicals get there, you don't have to be an injury frog. Thank you and thank you to the Danish People's Party for presenting the motion for a resolution, which highlights a major problem, what several of you have mentioned: Are dangerous products sold on online platforms, how many Danes also trade? The consumer has a legitimate expectation that products will comply with EU consumer protection rules when products can be sold to the EU. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case, which is why it is important for the government to do everything in their power in the negotiations on the DSA so I now hope that the Minister will listen, because that is not exactly what the Minister has put in place so that online platforms are responsible for the products sold from their platforms. And I hope we can bring together a majority that commits the government, among other things. by requiring the government to write a new consultation response stating that online platforms must have the status of importer and thus be responsible for the products on their platform. The reason why it should not be regulated in the Product Liability Act is because online platforms belong in the DSA, and this is also the regulation currently being negotiated. Otherwise, it may take quite a long time before it is introduced. Moreover, that is what the Minister's own colleague, Schaldemose, says: That there must be a section in the DSA that commits online platforms in relation to their products. So I would urge the Minister to listen to her. 'Cause she's got some smart ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193702	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, sir. Henrik Vinther. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193726	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the proposal with which I and the Radical Left very much agree with the intentions. It is important that we as consumers can count on the quality of the products we buy on the Internet and that they are safe, and it is at least as important that we can count on compliance with rules and laws, both in relation to what the products may contain and whether, for example, there are rules and regulations that we can do. has been paid VAT. That is why, as the Minister said, I am pleased that there will be new VAT rules this summer aimed at ensuring fair competition and reducing the risk of someone cheating on VAT. Then I think I share the wish that I have not heard the rapporteur say that we have better control over what kind of goods come into the country and that customs officials can do more and better controls that ensure properness. If we are not happy with the resolution then it is because we see very great disadvantages in introducing special rules in Denmark, and very great benefits in making this kind of rules common to the whole of the European Union. National rules risk having the opposite effect: to put Danish web shops at a disadvantage in competition. Regulation must take place where it is most effective and, when it comes to online trade, common EU rules are preferable. We also note that Danish Business and Consumer Council Think agrees with this. That is why we in the Radical Left are also pleased that the government is going to the negotiations on DSA, as it is so beautifully called, with the wish that there are common requirements for pan-European product safety and certainty that it is possible to place responsibility for all products sold within the EU, also online. Against this background, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193900	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323193904	Thank you. The joint letter from the Consumer Council and the Danish Business Administration, which has been sent to all rapporteurs on this motion for a resolution, outlines some bell-clear examples of how Danish companies experience it here when they are going out and sell their products also in relation to foreign retail, for example on platforms etc. via e-commerce. It refers, among other things, to: for the experiments that have been over in Dansk Erhverv, where 50 different products have been purchased at some of these large online outlets. And there have been depressing reports, and that is actually not very positive. There the rapporteur says that the Radical Left does not want any special rules for Danish e-commerce stores and that we need to get this thing going with the European Union on this issue. But does the rapporteur not recognise that there are actually special rules for Danish shops today, namely that they are unduly out-dated by other countries' players? That's not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323194014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323194016	When each country makes rules separately, it becomes a Chinese box of rules to find out how to navigate around in. We believe that the solution is to create pan-European rules that ensure that there is transparency and properness, including in the area of online commerce. It is also the case to settle in relation to VAT, and that applies to product safety. And we have faith that the government will listen and go to Brussels and see to it that it is enforced.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323194037	There are no more brief comments to the radical rapporteur. So we move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323194053	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for a resolution with good intentions, which we share. We fully agree with the objective of harmonising VAT rules and consumer protection legislation for all online trade, both Danish and foreign. It is a recurring problem that foreign web shops circumvent the rules of the digital marketplace. It has been repeatedly demonstrated that products are dangerous and that trade conditions are misleading. Consumer safety is at risk because online shops do not comply with basic rules on product safety, and this puts their law-abiding competitors at a disadvantage. We simply need to sort this out before further serious accidents occur. There is a political task in securing order in the wilderness. Nowadays, the network shops are circumventing the rules because they have the status of intermediaries. So we need to extend the rules so that they also apply to the intermediaries. We have dealt with similar proposals in the past under the auspices of the European Union: the Digital Services Act. However, the problem has still not been resolved, because the EU's proposal to regulate liability does not address the issue of product safety and dangerous products well enough. The EU wants to impose on intermediaries the removal of illegal and harmful products from their websites when they are brought to their attention, but this is too weak a measure and it hardly protects consumers. That is why we support in the Enhedslisten the intentions of DF's proposal today. It must be used as a basis for making the intermediaries responsible, and this requires us to elevate intermediary status to digital importers. At the same time, more resources should be allocated to, inter alia: The Safety Authority, the Chemicals Control, the Consumer Ombudsman and the Customs Authority, so we can strengthen control of the imported goods and keep up with who is cheating. I look forward to the further reading of the committee, because there are many things that are difficult here. How, then, do you check outside the EU's borders? And there are all sorts of other things that have also given previous governments headaches. So I can't wait for us to find out together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323194316	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323194326	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution which is good and very relevant. I will be relatively brief. In Denmark, we have strong and necessary consumer protection that ensures that manufacturers do not make products that do more harm than good, that shops do not sell toys and T-shirts with poisons. Danish shops can't just sell anything and just make the space available. They have a share of responsibility, regardless of who is the supplier. The same responsibility should, of course, apply to similar web shops. One should not just be able to provide one's platform, score the box and then be indifferent to what is being sold and whether Danish VAT is being paid. It must, of course, be stopped. But we cannot do that alone. That is why it is good that the European Union is in the process of the so-called Digital Services Act. Instead of trying to fight against the major international platforms ourselves, we must, of course, stand together and ensure a common solution. In this cooperation, we believe that the government should get into gear. We need to have a more active attitude in the EU negotiations on future platform rules. The main point here is that they should be quicker to remove dangerous goods if they are brought to their attention. That's not good enough. The sale of dangerous products should not be allowed at all. We intend to focus on this in the committee work. By the way, let me finish with my personal hoop, which I have also mentioned in other debates about the same thing: no matter how much legislation we bring in, it is ultimately your responsibility and my responsibility. We know that there is a lot of junk, and we know that a T-shirt for 7.5 kr. and a baby bite rattle for 2 kroner. has not been tested and neither yourself nor your child is worthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323194511	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323194524	Thank you. I was listening down there. I think it is nice that we sometimes say that we as Denmark should be a pioneer country, and that if we take the lead, the others will follow suit, and we must dare to take the lead and something like that. Then it comes to this, and so it is: Oh, now we must not take the lead, we must go with the European Union and things like that. But in other areas, for example. In terms of the environment and climate, we would like to emphasise that we are taking the lead in Denmark, but not just in this area; there we have to go along with the others down in the European Union. But let it go. I think there are some good initiatives in this proposal. It is about securing consumers, securing our children, and we like that. We are not so worried that we are bypassing the European Union. What we are concerned about is whether there is a harmful effect on Danish companies. The motion for a resolution does not make that clear. It's the kind of thing that you might be able to get an answer from the Ministry on exactly where these challenges lie. It is clear that this is something that we will take into account in our deliberations on it. However, I do not think that the authors of the Danish People's Party can be blamed for not having those calculations with them. But these are the kind of people we would like to see to see what it has to do with the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323194638	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323194649	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to sign for the debate we have had here in the Danish Parliament today about what we can do in Denmark to ensure better and more equal conditions of competition among online shops, but also in relation to the market of players, which of course applies, how much of this trade is going on cross-border and cross-border. The reason for the motion for a resolution is relatively well worded, because the rapporteurs have been able to understand what is really the motive behind why we in the Danish People's Party have chosen to proceed quite specifically with this proposal. It is simply because today it is wild west, and it has been for years, and as digital online trade increases and increases and increases in market share, this wild west mechanism is unfortunately becoming more and more visible to everyone. When you hear the debate here today in the Danish Parliament, you have to say that, despite the fact that there is a great deal of what we have clarified in the written motion for a resolution, unfortunately, a number of parties in this House who live in a fantasy world are living in a delusion. It is believed that this can be resolved in the European Union. I agree, then, that things can be done better, but why not start by finding some of the opportunities that we actually have the opportunity to take rather than waiting for supranational legislation where others have to sit and negotiate on behalf of Danish interests. We do not have the same optimism in the Danish People's Party, in relation to whether there will be a good solution tomorrow, in relation to whether the fantastic EU will succeed. We don't have that mechanism in our minds, and we don't believe it. Denmark has had some experience in a large number of other cases, and you can just look at the driver area, where we have been fighting for many years to get the same rules in relation to cabotage and ensuring wage and labour relations across borders, while foreign trucks rush across borders and drive illegal cabotage in Denmark. There will be a good solution tomorrow! So there isn't in this case. That is why, of course, I am appalled that so many parties have spoken so little about this and have said that there are good intentions. Yeah, but where's the action? It's like where we're going. It is a fact of fact that the legal position of consumers has been seriously undermined for years. It is a fact that VAT rules are being broken daily, and every minute some people get goods across national borders. We also know that transit conditions are being defrauded. Romanian cars drive around Denmark and deliver packages on foreign license plates at 10:00. 3 and 4 at night. Are we just gonna keep accepting that things are kind of wild-westy, or are we gonna start making some demands? There it is, I think, a rather sober, relatively small, uncomplicated speech to make precisely in relation to the facts about the lack of consumer protection and the deliberate circumvention of the VAT rules in force. It's something that really, a lot of people outside Christiansborg can nod to. We have tried to outline this in the comments on the proposal, and if otherwise the rapporteurs have taken note of the letters we have received, for example from the Consumer Council Think and Danish Occupation, they will know that during the last year the Consumer Council Think has bought and tested a wide range of products from toys to cosmetics and everything else and has been able to fully document everything from dangerous construction to high content of illegal chemistry in a wide range of products. Nothing is being observed. And then we can only say, after years of trouble and ramashang, that there will be a good solution soon, because you sit down in Brussels and look at it. We can also take the studies that have come from Danish Business, where you have bought 50 different shipments and had them delivered to the Kingdom of Denmark in three different online markets, and what was the depressing result? Yes, it was funny that in all 50 cases there was a total breach of all applicable regulations. The European consumer organisation BEUC has done the same, as has the European toy organisation TIE, and even the Swedish Elsäkerhetsverket and a large number of other organisations have been advocating this for years and have proved that it is happening. That is why we in the Danish People's Party think it is a pity that we cannot raise the debate a little higher than that we come up with feel good and good intentions. I am glad that there are rapporteurs who say that this is a sympathetic proposal, but all the Danish online companies who are trying to make a profit by entering into international e-commerce cannot use good intentions for anything, at least not to pay the interest at the bottom of the bank. You can't do that. You can't use good intentions for very much more than fries and air roasts. That's kind of the way it is. I am, of course, pleased that the SF was positive about finding a report which could contain some of these things and which could address the problems, I would like to acknowledge that, and I also thought it was a good thing that the Radical Left said that there should be more control. After all, we noted that the Social Democrats' rapporteur said that there are now a thousand new employees at SKAT, and now the tax minister has also come to the Chamber, but the rapporteur forgot to say that before the previous government was a government as red as the one we have now removed 1,300 jobs from SKAT, that is, under a social democratic regime. Then we're still missing the last 300. But if this gives us better control over the many jobs that are coming, we have to say that there is no one to sit and botanise over which packages come in large-scale across national borders, because they have to look at a whole range of different things, and that is why the Danish People's Party is of course interested in knowing how much of this new control measures can then be translated into catching some of those who are committing these violations. It is not only a question of making the rules more significant, but also of stepping up controls, and also of getting a greater degree of sanctions against those who are then caught and then getting some fines that they will then end up paying. This is the next problem, because many of those who receive public fines end up not paying them, because as soon as the bill is delivered in the e-box, the company has gone bankrupt, and then we don't see much about that money. So I think we should have grasped the root of the nettle in this case. I am, of course, a little too sorry that there are so many people who do not think that it is as wrong as it is experienced in many places. It is, of course, fair enough to have a different agenda for it, but now the matter is going on in committee, and then of course we have to see whether a majority can be formed for something written which can at least clarify and address that we are actually trying to take this seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195454	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195456	Thank you. So, I think the rapporteur seems a tiny bit sad that almost the whole parliament supports the resolution, but has little difficulty in finding out what the solution should be. I think I just wanted to say that I would probably have embraced it a little bit more, because we can actually do some things, and perhaps that was what we should have looked at, rather than necessarily doing exactly what the Danish People's Party is proposing here, and thus not making this a debate about Romanian cars on the roads and for or against the European Union. At any rate, I hope that we can agree on this in committee, so that we are now focusing on the ball, because I have not heard a single rapporteur object to the intention of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195545	Now Mrs Mona Juul has been here for some time now, and one of the many highly used records in the Danish Parliament is that they say: thank you for the motion for a resolution, there are many fine, good intentions. You can get a little tired of hearing that when people don't like to convert this kind of goodwill into actively going in to say that we have to do something about the problem. That's what gets me a little provoked by. I fully agree, and I think I mentioned a number of the rapporteurs and said that I was glad that there are more people who would be involved in drawing up a good report, at least try to do so, and that there were many who went in and said that we should have better control and more control, etc. At least that's what I think is very characteristic of this, but it doesn't change the fact that we're not gonna get to grips with the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195637	It says that sir... Rasmus Horn Langhoff has pressed in, and I have been sitting here trying to guess who it is that has pressed in, because I certainly cannot see Mr. Langhoff. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. That is Mrs Victoria Velasquez, I understand. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195716	Thank you, and I'm sorry. I just couldn't help asking for the floor, and then apparently I got so eager that it didn't come from my own chair at all. But it is in relation to this that the proposal has good intentions, and so, I think that the proposal has, and I must admit that in some areas, for example. social dumping and business, are places where we think the Danish People's Party has good intentions, there are also places where Enhedslisten may not quite think that Dansk Folkeparti has good intentions and does not want to continue working on it. So I actually mean it when I say that I think we should continue working on this, and I also hear that there is support for it. As we worked on product safety earlier on I do not remember when it was we did it; it must have been before New Year's I actually saw that there was support from the various business rapporteurs to solve some of these problems. So perhaps the rapporteur should enjoy the fact that there are also some new rapporteurs in this area and that when we say that we support the intentions and actually want to put on the work gloves and see what we can do, we actually mean it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195825	Well, I certainly don't doubt that, and I also think I was on the Enhedslisten and commented that you were the ones who were the most positive if you're finally going to do such a test of who is the most positive in these times. At the same time, however, I have just had to say what the feedback has been, for example from the Social Democrats and the Left, and there has clearly been more EU, more EU. You can get a little irritated about that, and if someone has felt trampled on their toes and annoyed about it, they just have to get used to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195858	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195900	I can only agree with the rapporteur on this. It will be a jam jar, and unfortunately we can also risk that there are quite other things that will make a lot of mud in it if we were to wait for the European Union and total harmonisation, which will then not solve the problems we have and everything else. So I think we should accept the good, encouraging words from the various, put on the work gloves and then have a look at it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195931	Well, I don't mind working gloves. I think it sounds very good, and I will certainly give it a chance. But then time will have to show how far we get with the good intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195946	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323195948	I just want to hear the rapporteur: as Mrs Mona Juul and many others have also said, not a single rapporteur does not recognise that there is a problem and wants to help solve this challenge. Now the rapporteur has kept his somewhat ■ what should I call it? So is what I would like to ask the rapporteur: if we are now making a report on imposing an extremely high level of ambition on the government, i.e. on negotiating mandate etc., is that something that DF sees itself in, or will DF just not be in a report if the word EU is included?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323200043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323200045	There are many reports that the Danish People's Party could agree to where the word EU is included, for example. withdrawal from the EU. We'd be quick to sign that. But this is probably not the one to which Mrs Honoré Østergaard refers. No, of course we want to help look at what can come of written comments in relation to it. We have been talking about this in several of the threads we have had today in connection with these EU rules, which are currently being debated and where online platforms have, after all, been equated with online market platforms. That separation is the one I would like to see at least become a reality, and I hope we can get the government to do that. Could it be included in a report that we get the government to work actively to ensure that this is not just something you say, but something you do too, of course we would like to support a report which also includes the word EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323200141	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323200143	Well, I actually think I just want to say thank you for the last answer. For the rapporteur started out a little interesting, where I had some doubts as to where the rapporteur was going. But I'm thinking that if we look long enough at the Minister down there, he'll start raising the level of ambition so we can get something done about this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323200203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323200205	That's what we're counting on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323200210	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323200222	The debate is open and the first to speak is from the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Troels Ravn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323200253	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. For the Social Democracy is important that everyone pays the taxes they have to pay. It is an important priority for the government to strengthen the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, which is why it was also a joyful day when last week the government and all the parties in the Danish Parliament agreed to strengthen tax control in order to combat fraud, errors and cheating. Today we are then discussing a bill that has been tabled on the basis of an early warning from the Danish Tax Office about an opportunity to exploit the tax rules contrary to the intention. The draft law must close down this possibility and make the tax rules more robust against attempts to circumvent it. The draft law concerns the tax rules applicable to the acquisition of a business under the corporate scheme. It is important for the government that companies have good framework conditions, but it must not be the case that creative exploitation of the rules means that you can avoid paying the correct and compulsory tax. The Danish Tax Office has then identified several options for separating the funds in the corporate scheme from the tax obligation. The draft law therefore provides for a change in the rules so that the transfer of the tax liability follows funds corresponding to the tax obligation. It shall prevent situations in which the trader transfers part of his business and gains access to the values of his business arrangement, while at the same time taking over, for example, the deferred tax liability, for example, the child or a related family member who is transferred to a part of the business. In these situations, the owner will be able, contrary to the purpose of the rules of the company scheme, to withdraw funds from the company without tax. Therefore, the draft law ensures a link between the assets and liabilities and the holding in the savings account that can be taken over in the context of a transfer or distribution of an entity. As is customary for early warning legislative proposals, it is proposed that the legislative proposal takes effect from the time of submission, so that the loopholes described are not exploited in the meantime. The proposed changes will therefore make the rules in force more robust against speculation, which is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. I should like to welcome the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323200527	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. So the next rapporteur is from the Left, sir. Kim Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323200551	Thank you, Mr President. As we have just heard, this proposal aims to limit access to the acquisition of savings in the business system. In concrete terms, the proposal adjusts a number of tax rules in order to prevent unintended use of the rules governing the business system. In many cases, this simply means that we are trying to avoid people being top-taxed and being taxed instead in a completely different way, and that in itself makes sense, because it is not the intention to avoid taxation completely when you are in the business system. The reason for the proposal is that, in an early warning, the Danish Tax Office has identified several models in which transfer of business from the corporate scheme can result in the transfer of savings to spouses or children, leaving the owner of the business scheme with financial assets that can subsequently be withdrawn from the scheme without taxation. According to the draft law, the rules in force thus allow funds to be taken out of the company scheme for private consumption without triggering the taxation which is otherwise intended as a result of the organisation of the business system. Everything's fine. What is the problem with the bill is to find out if there are any collateral damage, indirect damage elsewhere, by doing this. That is why it is likely that there will be a great deal of questions for this particular part. The draft law provides for a change in the rules so that the independent trader applying the enterprise scheme cannot transfer an undertaking to a related entity without, at the same time, a transfer of the assets and liabilities of the scheme corresponding to the share of the profits saved which are transferred. The intention is to ensure a link between the values of the corporate scheme and the latent tax liability expressed by the savings account. The draft law also provides for a similar context in the situation in which the company is taken over in connection with death. Even now we can see that for many people this is really hard to understand and for a lot of people who have a business, it is hard to understand. Therefore, we need to be very explicit about what this really means for those who own a business. The draft law is considered to be a protection against tax avoidance and therefore has effect on transfers from 22 December 2020. That's fine. The Left very much agrees that legislation should be amended if it gives rise to unintended exploitation of the tax rules. It is very important for confidence in the tax system that the rules are designed in such a way as to ensure fair and fair taxation. The bill is intended to ensure that taxpayers cannot have an unduly favourable result that seems incompatible with the intentions behind the rules. The Left also notes that the Ministry in its comments on the hearings writes that the draft law will be adjusted on a number of points of a technical nature, e.g.: that account is taken of the problem raised with regard to the inter-account account. This is an important point, and we have also noticed in the Left that there are quite a few comments from the CSFs. Those comments will certainly give rise to several questions on our part. So we need to find out whether there is a need for further corrections to ensure that this does not affect innocent business owners. The Left can vote in favour of the bill when there is no negative damage elsewhere in relation to the company scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323201048	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323201113	Thank you. I can at least start by agreeing with the previous speaker that this is a rather technical proposal. It's about a change in the corporate regime, where there have been some early warnings • I think you write early warnings, but I choose to use the Danish term • about possible circumvention of tax rules. As I have said, it is about the corporate regime; you can choose to have business through a limited liability company or a limited liability company, but if it is personally owned, it is typically under what is called the corporate regime, which is characterised by the fact that you can make income shifts over the years when you pay a provisional tax of 22 per cent, and then you can choose to pull out this saved profit in the years when it suits you best and then pay tax at that time. What's special about this form of company is that you have to raise this saved profit before you can withdraw the money you've actually shot into the company, and that makes sense. What the discussion is all about here is that you can hand over companies to your children or to your wife, someone close to you, and then you can transfer this saved profit to this unpaid tax liability, which in some way also lies in it, you can transfer it. The draft law states that the self-employed person may thus have access to financial assets which remain in his or her business system without taxation. And this is where I think it's gonna be a little difficult, because they say that if the savings have been passed on, you shouldn't pay taxes if you pull the money out, which you just shot in, but you shouldn't do that in advance. I mean, if you bought a property worth $1 million. kr. And made 100,000 kroner. And then you sent the $100,000. on to the children and the treasure then comes later, and if you pull out the million you have shot in from the beginning, then you should not pay tax on it, and that is already true today. So I find it kind of hard to see what the treasure hole really is in it. Because what we are talking about here is that we postpone taxation until someone takes over it. It may be the wife, the children or the grandchildren. So I guess it's a deferred tax, more than it's actually a tax hole. I mean, who's gonna get screwed with this? I can say that I actually have a company in the company scheme myself, so I actually know a little about it, and I find it hard to see why it is actually that there is a problem here. For whom is it really being cheated? There are, of course, many places in tax legislation today where taxation between generations, or indeed others, can actually be moved if fiscal success is achieved. So it's already an option for other types of business, so what is the real problem with this bill? I'm having a really hard time seeing that. I am, of course, also opposed to this if there is any possibility of fraud, and that must, of course, be closed down. But I really don't see it the way it is now. As a parliamentarian, of course, I am only a layman, and that is a difficult technical proposal, which I also started by saying, so it may be that I am wrong. So before we in the Danish People's Party can say whether we are voting 'yes' or 'no' to this, we would really like to have a technical review at committee level, where we could perhaps get some examples up or perhaps make it a little clearer what it really is that should be the tax gap or the opportunity to speculate on taxes. Because I actually think that, as I know the system, it looks perfectly legal to move a tax hump between generations. That is what is being done about all other forms of society, so why not here as well? So how you can actually cheat on it, I'm having a really hard time seeing, and I can't see it either from the example you actually have in the bill that you can cheat. As I said, I am only a layman in this situation, but a technical review can make me wiser, so we would like to wait to say what we are voting on this proposal until we have had such a technical review.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323201443	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323201501	Thank you. In the SF, we believe that we must have a fair tax system in which we all contribute to the community, and the debate we have today is about some self-employed people being able to use the legislation on savings and the transfer of businesses to refrain from paying the tax to which they are actually obliged. And, of course, that was not the intention of the legislation. It seems to me that there is a gap in legislation, and we need to close that down. It is important that, as a citizen, you can rely on our tax system as well as as as an ordinary self-employed person or as an employee who every day goes to work and pays tax on his or her salary. This requires that we all pay the tax that we have to pay, and I would therefore like to commend the Tax Authority for bringing this so-called early warning, or early warning, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær said I'm not really that excited about this idea either; I very much agree with DF in that part. The bill we're dealing with here seems to be able to close the gap. It is also important, however, that the draft law does not go unnecessarily beyond the opportunities for generational change, so here too I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left with the nice last name! In SF we will therefore also pay attention to that part of the further examination of the bill. We can support what it is now, but we would also like to continue working on it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323201617	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323201636	Thank you very much, President. As a starting point, we support the intention of the draft law and, as several rapporteurs have already mentioned, the draft law aims to adjust a number of tax rules in order to prevent the transfer of a company within the company scheme from being used unintentionally. In the Conservative People's Party, we are very concerned that law and order must be maintained, so when a gap is identified in tax legislation, it must, of course, be closed. At the same time, however, we believe that some relevant concerns are raised in the consultation material. There will be among other things. pointing out that there is a tax difference between the transfer to a spouse or to a child, and in such a situation one must always consider, as a traffic rapporteur, how hard one presses the brake when it has to be printed. However, we are looking forward to a thorough examination of the committee, in which we will have a full response from the Ministry to some of the substantive concerns raised in the hearings. It may well be that there is a need for some adjustments to the proposal, as the Ministry already opens up in the answers to the consultation answers, and we will probably ask a number of more detailed questions in this regard. However, as a starting point, we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323201756	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323201812	Thank you. I feel a bit like the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. I also know a little bit about this scheme, and I just had a hard time figuring out where the hole in it was. But it is clear that if the Danish Tax Office says that there is a problem, we are also open to looking at it. Now I am not in committee, but it may be possible to get a written reply with a technical examination, and we will wait for that to happen before we finally take a position on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323201903	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the New Citizens' rapporteur, so the next person to be on the platform is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323201914	Thank you very much for that, President, and thank you for receiving this bill, which is, I admit, rather technical, and which was tabled before Christmas on the basis of an early warning from the Tax Authority. It is important for the government, and I am pleased to see that confirmed by a majority here in the Danish Parliament, that the business community naturally has and must have good framework conditions. They must also do so in the field of taxation, but it should not be the case that, with what can be called smart tax models, we can avoid paying the tax that was otherwise intended. The maneuver described by the Danish Tax Office in its early warning here is not in line with the intention of the applicable rules. The tax rules must not be used to obtain unjustified benefits contrary to the intention, and therefore the government will intervene and stop it. It is important that the Danish tax rules are, of course, robust, and they must also work as intended, and it is therefore the intention of the bill to ensure that. In this early warning, as it is called, the Danish Tax Office has identified several models where the current rules allow you to speculate in avoiding the tax that is otherwise assumed to be paid. In accordance with the rules in force, business owners applying the corporate scheme can easily have access to low-tax funds. This is not in line with the intention of the company scheme, where a low provisional tax is paid, but where full taxation is to be reduced when, for example, it is paid. take funds out of the business. A selfemployed person who transfers part of his business may thus have access to assets in his business arrangement, while at the same time, for example, a child takes over the deferred tax liability under the scheme. The child takes over the tax obligation, but does not necessarily take over the values to pay the tax. Thus, the funds are separated from the tax liability, and this transfer then allows the owner of the business to withdraw funds from the company without taxation. That is what is not in line with the intention behind the rules here. The proposal then ensures that there is a link between the assets and liabilities and the holding in the savings account that can be taken over in the context of a transfer or distribution of an entity. That is to say, in the situation in which a tax liability is transferred, we ensure that funds are also included corresponding to the tax liability. The point is, of course, that it has to be paid at some point. A question has then been raised about the date of effect, but, as we know from previous early warnings, the draft law has, of course, taken effect from the time of submission, since it has to be said that the draft law provides a recipe for how the applicable rules can be applied. And if that were not the case, there would of course be a risk that, after the legislative proposal had been tabled and the legislative proposal would then have entered into force, speculation could occur in the use of the existing rules to circumvent taxation as described in the draft law. Why is this bill so important? What we want to do with this bill is to ensure that, as I said, there is no question of speculating on the current rules for the benefit of our own economy and, as I said, of looking at the disadvantage of the economy. The legislative proposal is then about ensuring that the rules in force actually work as intended and cannot be used. At the same time, we have tried to draft the bill so that the rules continue to ensure good framework conditions in terms of operating, including in relation to being able to transfer its business to the next generation. I am happy to admit that this is a very technical draft law, and we will of course be happy to provide answers to questions in the future in committee and will also be happy to come up for a technical examination if that is what is needed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202342	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202345	Thank you. It's a technical thing, so I also understand if the tax minister refers to committee issues, but I try anyway: if you imagine a father selling his business to his son, and there's just so fictionally 100 kroner. In a latent tax payment, which is then transferred to the son, what is the problem you're trying to solve with this? Well, it's not the danger that pays the tax, but forward-looking is the son, i.e. the tax that is still gone is 100 kroner.? Or is it a small tax payment? Because as I read it, it will still be about exactly the same amount. I mean, no tax is being cheated; no less tax is coming in, but it's just another person paying the tax. Can the Minister confirm that? And if he can, is it really not very normal in the corporate sector when you make a transfer to the next generation that you so typically push such a ball in front of in tax payments? So it's really just to ask what the hole really is. Is it because one is afraid of less tax payments, or is it more the principle that it should be the danger that pays the tax, rather than the son, who can take over the ball and perhaps push it in front of him?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202447	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202449	I think that the question of the concrete example should be put in committee, and then we will be happy to answer it if it can also be illustrative of the core of the legislative proposal. But what's at the core, and it's a little bit like that, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær asks about the fact that the funds are separated from the tax liability of these transfers. That is the point, and that is what the proposal must ensure cannot happen. That's basically what's at the heart of it. Then I think we can try to look at the various examples. There have been various attempts to do so, some situations with it, and I think we should try to drill into that so that we can see if there is any uncertainty about it. We don't think there is. We have also responded to that, as Mr. Kim Valentin said in the hearings. And we believe that where it is now, it is the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202541	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202543	But is the overall problem that one can push the tax ahead, in principle infinitely, from generation to generation? Or is the problem that you expect less revenue? Perhaps the tax minister could at least answer whether we are expecting a small amount of revenue from this, because then it might be part of the answer. Well, I have such a thought that it's all about you just being able to push it in front of you for a lot of years and not being about a tax hole where you're going to pay less in tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202609	Well, the main problem is this: you separate the funds from the tax liability, as I said. What is the main problem, then, is that the transfer that is taking place allows the owner in question, as I said before, to exempt funds from the company without taxation. That's the hole, and that's what we're trying to close with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202634	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202638	Thank you. I will try to make a parallel with companies, because in companies you can also save profits by simply not paying it as dividends or wages. There you can wait to tax it until heirs take over, in other words success, and in a similar way you can wait in companies to tax things until they land with those who receive money in the end. Does the Minister agree that there is a parallel between these parts and that, where appropriate, one should also touch on the company system which one has today, where profits and wages can be taken in a similar way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202729	Well, it's a parallel that we'd like to drill out if it's needed by the Left. As I have said, what has been said here is the possibility of taking funds from a company without taxation. That's what's happened around, and that's what we're trying to close with this early warning. I think it is relatively straight and parallel to the other taxation in the corporate sector, which we can try to draw from it, but I think that here a concrete gap has been identified in our legislation which has not been as intended in the processes underlying the main problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202805	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202808	Thank you for that answer. I am sure that we will get closer to that on all the issues that follow. I just thought it was interesting just to ask about it. The second question I have is: if you now trade a company with assets and all that is in the accounts of all sorts of accounts, does the minister agree that these rules make absolutely no changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202833	I do not have a precondition for answering that question as directly as I would like to do here, but I would like to help demand an answer to that. That's what I think, sir. Kim Valentin asks if we are sure that this has been properly contained and we think so. For example, we can see in the consultation answers how we have dealt with the consultation answers that have come from CSFs, for example, which have that concern. So that is what we think we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202859	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to the Minister of Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202928	The debate is open. The first to speak is actually the tax minister, so it has been cleaned up before the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323202938	Thank you for that, President. The authors of the proposal would like to equate the tax-free tax credit rate for the use of a work-related bicycle with the driving tariff. In addition, it is desirable to analyse which further tax initiatives could promote cycling in Denmark. Let me make a start so that there can be no doubt about it, and the authors of the motion also know very well that it is always good for people to cycle; on the other hand, we should remember that the purpose of the rules on tax-free allowances is that the employer should be able to indemnify the employee when the employee has the cost of commercial transport because the employee uses his own means of transport. The staff member must be able to be held indemnified and must not be undercompensated or overcompensated, for that matter, on the basis of the tax rules, and this is ensured by the fact that, on the basis of an estimate of the actual costs, the Tax Council fixes the rates of tax-free travel allowance each year. This is an important principle which I think we should stick to here. As I said, I agree that we can say very well about bicycles and cycling and, of course, I also think it is very good that more people choose the bicycle rather than the car. This requires investment in, among other things: cycling infrastructure. If more people have to choose the bike, it requires investment. And in the agreement on the green conversion of road transport, we have just had a very strong focus on promoting cyclism, and we have actually agreed that we will allocate as much as 520 million. kr. for e.g. Municipal bicycle projects and construction of bicycle paths. This is the area of my colleague, the Minister for Transport, and I am quite sure that it is also in good hands and in progress, of course, because of course we must continue to be very ambitious when it comes to promoting cycling. Although we would like more people to get out of the car and on the bike, it must also be done wisely. There is the proposal that it should be possible to get a very high tax-free mileage rate when driving a professional bicycle, for example. between meetings or customers, i.e. systematic tax-free over-compensation of employees, and this is not the best idea in the view of the government. We cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I would, of course, like to expand on that. As mentioned above, the Tax Council sets the rates annually on the basis of an estimate of the actual costs of the various modes of transport. Rate per person kilometers for driving in your own car is in the year 3 kroner. And 44 cents. The bet is 54 cents for riding on bike, electric wheels, moped and scooter, i.e. 54 cents. What is proposed in the proposal here is that employees receive 7 times the amount corresponding to the estimated actual cost of riding a bicycle, i.e. tax-free, by the employer. I do not believe that such systematic tax-free overcompensation is the right way to organise our tax system. The rules on tax-free allowances should indemnify the employee. We agree with that for the payment of expenses in the interests of employers; that is the principle. It has never been the intention to systematically make tax-free money by using a particular means of transport. In addition to conflicting with the general principles of tax law, as I said, there is also the risk that such tax-free overcompensation will be used to minimise tax payments, so that less is paid in ordinary taxable pay and instead a high tax-free mileage allowance is paid. For example, it could be for employed bike messengers in the big cities. At the same time, I think we can agree that it would be incredibly difficult to control this, in other words that the employee has actually used his bicycle to the extent that it is indicated. But we must also bear in mind that the tax concession we are talking about here benefits only a limited group of people, namely de facto employees in and around the large cities, which have short distances between jobs and do not have to travel, for example, over very long distances and which do not have to transport very large and heavy goods. After all, it will probably be employees who will already often use the bike. In the view of the government, it is not a good use of tax dollars, as I have said, to tax-payers who ride on a large scale in advance, while employees who need to use the car, for example. Because they work in the countryside, as it is called, does not have this opportunity to earn, if you like, tax-free money on cycling. As I said, the tax dollars are better spent on general improvements for the benefit of all cyclists rather than supporting a probably relatively limited group of employees. Finally, of course, I also have to point out that there is no provision for funding of the proposal. After all, an increased mileage rate for business on its own bicycle is estimated to lead to a relatively small amount of revenue, since both time consumption and also the bicycle on which it is riding are taken into account, because it will now be very technical ■ its relatively limited load capacity in practice will only include commercial driving within, as I have said, limited geographical distances in urban areas. You can hear that was a fantastic formulation. This proposal is of course also considered to have a relatively limited effect on behaviour when it does not have a very high revenue effect. Then you can discuss whether it is in line with the ambitions you have. If you want to promote cycling, promote the health and climate benefits of cycling, spend the money you now have to invest in better conditions for everyone, that is what the government's position is, and that is why, with the Green Transport Agreement and the broad majority behind it, we have chosen to spend more than half a billion dollars on precisely that purpose. So in those words, the government cannot support the proposal. And that hangs, among other things. In addition to the fact that it violates the fundamental principles of the arrangement of the tax system. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323203649	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and that is from Susanne Zimmer, outside the Groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323203655	Yes, thank you, and thank you to the Minister. In relation to the Tax Council and the actual costs, it is certainly not something that has been cut in stone, that is to say that you cannot change it. Because I totally understand that this is a small thing, but small things are also right. It's a small, easy thing, and we know that every time someone rides a mile, society actually saves $8 compared to driving a car. So there is good funding to be obtained there, in fact, really good funding. Then we could not change the principles and say that we are going to do so now that we encourage the cycle during working hours for those who have the opportunity to do so. And that is also true in small towns, where, for example, there are towns and cities. home helpers and sosu assistants, etc. I'm driving around. So it's a lot of places; it's not just in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323203740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323203741	A great many of them are being made available today, and a great many of them are also taking advantage of the very large investments that we are putting forward, for example. With the infrastructure agreement and the infrastructure initiatives that we have made. Principles can always be discussed, but I think that just right here and it may well be that it is not quite the big dyke slip, whether you want to be aware that you are making a rather violent overcompensation, where you spend quite a lot of money on relatively few people who drive very little in a very limited area on bike, and therefore the government does not think that it is a good use of our tax dollars.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323203826	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323203828	So, in 2016, the then tax minister said it wouldn't mean anything socio-economic to have this introduced. In fact, many people in the City of Copenhagen would like to do so, but there are problems in relation to doing so, among others. Because of the Tax Council. In Randers City, they do it. How can they do that? I don't know. So, could we not at least give the municipalities the freedom to do so without it being problematic? Because if you just take a municipality with municipal employees, they have a great interest in doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323203902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323203903	I fully agree with that. In the municipality where I live, a great deal of effort is also being made, and a great many municipalities do. And that is why I think that when you look at how the municipalities promote cycling, which is being asked, I find it hard to see what would be of limitations if I were to be completely honest. And you can always look at that, but I really don't think there are any major limitations. On the contrary, I see many who make bicycles available to the employees and who have a policy of more cycling in the municipality, and much of this is due to the fact that you broaden the bike paths and create super bike paths, that you make bicycles available to the employees, and that you connect to the system for sharing bicycles and place the sharing bikes in the major public transport hubs. This is the type of thing that I can at least see happening in the area I live in. So there are great ambitions, and I think that is very good. So the intentions we share are just not quite sure that the key is the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204007	The next brief remark is to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204011	The effects of getting people to ride more are clearly good. I think we are broadly in agreement on this in the Parliamentary Assembly. And I noticed that the Minister said that the revenue effects, that is, what it will cost, were very small and there was a good indication of why they would be, but we also heard that the effect might be quite small. But that's the kind of thing we don't really know. So I really just want to hear about something in relation to a way of solving it, where this is a permanent deduction. But what if, for example, you're gonna have to... Said we were doing an experiment with this all year 2022 and doing some pick-up on it? Because if it doesn't cost anything, what's wrong with us trying to try it? After all, we could get some knowledge, because, as I said, the effects are clearly good. I think we agree on that, so why not try it out for just one year instead of making some kind of permanent arrangement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204055	You can always discuss that. We believe that perhaps here there are some principles on which, when we look at how tax legislation is otherwise organised, we should be equally obscene. That's one. The second is: if you want to promote cycling, then I think you should link yourself to the very exciting discussions that are under the auspices of the climate agreements we are making and which are under the auspices of the transport agreements we are making. As the attention of many people may not have been lost, there will soon be new discussions, and there I think the right thing to do is to continue with what has been done: super bike paths and better accessibility in cities, so as to ensure that employees in the public sector • those who live close to jobs • thus have better opportunities to ride a bike. That's all we've put in the lake, and I think the reality is that you get a lot more for that if you want than you do with this initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204156	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204158	Well, it's true that you can connect to the discussion anywhere else, but now we have the discussion here about this specific proposal. And I agree that you can look at bike paths, super bike paths and all sorts of things, and that comes later too, but now this is what we are discussing specifically, and that is why I do not quite understand: what is the resistance to trying to do this? In other words, if you say that it costs virtually nothing, you cannot say that the money will have to be spent better elsewhere. Well, you don't get very much bike path for nothing. So why don't you try it for a year and see if you could get anything out of this? It may be that the Minister is right that no one is using it. All right, then we've only spent a year on something that, in the Minister's own words, doesn't cost much. But if the effect has been super good, then it could be something to consider, that is to say to walk away from these principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204239	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204240	Well, we don't think there's any reason for that. We do not think there is any reason to sevenfold the overcompensation of those who cycle in relation to their employer, for example in the city. We may think it's just as violent as it is. That's one. And the second is that it may well be possible to make a limited attempt... we do not think there is any basis for that... but it still leaves a main problem with the control of it, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also in other contexts helps to strengthen with the government. So you have to be aware of those elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204315	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. That is how the rapporteur can proceed and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204343	Thank you for the floor and thanks to the authors of the motion for a resolution, who wish to promote cycling in Denmark. In the Social Democratic Party we think it is positive that the proposers want to promote cycling, but at the same time, like previous governments, we believe that this is a task which is most appropriately carried out outside the tax systems. That is why 520 million was set aside. kr. for investments in the development of the bicycle infrastructure under the agreement on the green conversion of road transport. And it is a sensible way to go to promote cycling. In addition, there will be a number of challenges by comparing the tax-free allowance rate for the professional use of a bicycle with the driving tariff which makes the proposal inappropriate. First and foremost, it is contrary to the basic principle of tax-free travel allowance, which means that the employer compensates the employee for the actual costs of commercial transport using its own means of transport. The rates of tax-free travel allowance are fixed annually on the basis of the tax council's hurry and actual costs of the respective modes of transport, and the rate per year. driving miles by bicycle this year is about seven times lower than the rate per year. driving miles by car. In practice, it will mean that cyclists can receive an amount seven times higher than what is estimated to be their actual costs. Thus, it is a significant overcompensation and very far from the principle that the employer should compensate the employee for expenses incurred in the interests of the employer. Secondly, taking advantage of the measure to minimise tax payments may have the secondary consequence. It can, for example, be done. by a change in the compensation which reduces taxable pay and increases the tax-free mileage allowance. An obvious example is staffed bike messengers in the big cities. We do not think this is a fair or sustainable way of using our tax dollars or, for that matter, promoting cycling. Promoting cycling in Denmark is instead about ensuring general and lasting improvements for cyclists, and these are the funds provided by the agreement on the green conversion of road transport, which I mentioned earlier. It is a very good example of this. For these reasons, the Social Democrats do not support the proposal, and I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that neither do the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204634	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204640	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. If we are now playing that we have introduced this, does the rapporteur think that more people will take the bike during working hours instead of taking the car and perhaps even cycling to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204656	Well, it can be difficult to give a precise answer, that is to say, there is the possibility today of receiving a transport allowance if you use your bike, that is to say, you are like users of other means of transport. In other words, the intention to promote cycling I fully share with the proposers, I just do not think it should be in our tax system. It can, for example, be done. This is what we have done in the context of the green conversion of our road transport, our traffic, where we have found a pool of 520 million. kr. here to improve infrastructure for cyclists in Denmark. That's the way we're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204744	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204746	Now I want to say that we actually have a lot of bicycle paths that are not used very much, so there may be a need to do another financial incentive to get more people on the bike, and it could be one of them, but it could be many others, and part of this proposal is also to get an analysis done to see what financial incentives could actually make a difference. Because if you're going to set up bike paths for 520 million... kr., you don't get many.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204816	At any rate, I do not think that this is the way to go over-compensation to ride and get transport allowances or to get an increased deduction as a driving allowance during working hours. However, a number of analyses have been carried out over time of various tax incentives to promote cycling. What we have actually come up with is that where we get the most money, that is, where we think about general improvements for cyclists, and that is, for example, when we build a better bicycle infrastructure, i.e. bicycle paths, even now that we make it possible to charge at charging stations for electric bicycles. In other words, that is the way we are going to go. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204914	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323204940	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we fully agree with the proposers that there are many advantages to cycling. Denmark is and must remain a cycling nation. This is good for the climate, air pollution and, above all, public health. We are in complete agreement on this. But we also have to separate things just a little bit. After all, the driving allowance is not there for companies to provide their employees with an economic incentive to take the car to work. The driver's allowance is for companies to be able to compensate their employees for the costs they incur in connection with transport in working contexts, so that there is no economic disadvantage. In this respect, there is a very special reason why the rate for taking your car is higher than the rate for taking your bike. It is simply far more expensive to take the car. After all, the driving allowance covers the costs associated with the transport. If you take the car, for example. expenditure on petrol, maintenance, weight tax, depreciation, financing and insurance. Of course, if you choose to take the bike in working contexts, the cost is much lower, and so is the driving allowance. We in the Left believe this to be a very good idea, and that is why we do not think that the tariff for the tax-free driving allowance for the use of work-related use of bicycles should be compared to the tariff for the use of cars. However, I would like to say that the Left is in favour of the proposal to require the government to draw up an analysis which identifies which further tax initiatives could promote cycling in Denmark. It might be interesting to see what proposals the government will make. In those words, I look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323205137	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323205140	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for supporting an analysis. That would be really nice, because then we will have more tools in the toolbox and can look at what is worth the best. So I'm glad. In relation to the financing of cycling, it can be said that it is true that if you raise the cycling allowance rate to be at the level of the driving tariff, you will have to pay something extra. But you could also turn it around and say that every time someone drives a mile by car instead of riding a bike, it costs 8 kr. in social costs and health costs. Isn't it a big price to pay if you keep the two things against each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323205222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323205224	Now I am glad that the rapporteur has heard that we are in fact interested in some sort of analysis work being done to look at what we can do to promote cycling in Denmark. That's one thing. The second point is that, just when driving during working hours, you are compensated for the costs that you have, i.e. the individual person, so I do not think we are going to mix it up, but we are really positive that there are other things you can look at doing and other measures that can be taken in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323205303	There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. Thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur, who is ready. It's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323205326	This resolution, as has already been mentioned, is about promoting more use of the bicycle at work, not on the way to work, but when you are at work and going to and from meetings, to another company, to a nursing home or whatever. It has to be said quite clearly on our part that there are only good effects, by people taking the bike somewhat more, it is everything from less CO2 So the list is really long and, as the rapporteur for the proposers has also mentioned, the proposal also says that an analysis has been made that shows that society saves DKK 8. for every mile extra riding on a bike. It is certainly a huge potential that you have to look at if you can exploit, and the potential has not been diminished by the fact that we now have electric bikes, so you might be able to go further by bike than you could in the past, where you were inclined to take the car. As has also been mentioned in the debate, it is of course the case that the driving allowance is approx. 50 cents when riding a bike, and about 3.40 cents when driving a car, and we really think it would be sensible to have a discussion about whether you could not equalise the two rates, so you give a much greater incentive to take the bike instead. Of course, it still has to be the same as today, when it is a decentralized decision, so that as a municipality or company you can choose to set a lower rate yourself. What we are setting here is just the rate of tax-free. One might also choose to say that the rate should be DKK 5 if one wanted to, but then the part that lies between the amount fixed by the state and what one chooses to give is just not tax-free. So I really think it might be a good thing for the state to say that we would like to give this motivation for it, and then you have to find out where to put the amount, and then you can hold on to the fact that it has to be less than 3.40 cents if you want to. Our only appeal in this is not really that we have financed it from the scope, because it is fair enough that we choose to finance it in this way, but we could have done the best we could to tell you what the price was, so that we could also take it into account when we dealt with the proposal, because I have no idea if it cost 5, 50 or 100 million. kr., and that, of course, is something that needs to be taken into account in the context of such a proposal. I would also like to make a fundamental comment on this. That is true, it is the case today that the rates are fixed in such a way that you are compensated for by your actual costs, and that is why the rate is higher for a car than it is when you are riding a bike, and it is true that that is the principle that you then walk away from. But it made me think that when we try to regulate behavior that you want to do with this, that is to say that you want people to take the bike to a greater extent, then it is typically the case that when we do, for example, when we do not have time to take it. Put taxes on something, so it's also for people to eat less candy smoke less. And it is not the case that we say that then the tax imposed must match the costs of smoking or eating candy. I mean, these two things don't add up. Why, then, should it not be the other way, so that a tax is not imposed to punish people for doing the right thing? Here we are giving an incentive by providing an additional tax exemption. It is the same principle, so isn't it fair enough that it doesn't necessarily match the cost of riding a bicycle or driving a car? I just think that if you tie a no to this up to the fact that there should be a tax principle that it can only cover the costs, then I would say that this does not apply to taxes, so why should it apply to encouraging something? So I think you could tie it up on principle and say that you can defend it if that is what you want. As has already been pointed out in my brief remarks this evening, I really think we could try this out. I am not sure whether to make it a permanent arrangement, but why not say that one tried it for a year and said: let us see what happens? According to the tax minister, the revenue effects are incredibly small and you don't know what the effect is, but it is obvious that it is a good idea to get more people to take the bike, so why not try it for a year and say: Let's see what happens? If there are a lot of people who start biking and it doesn't cost much, we can do it permanently; it costs a lot, and there are no bikes and people cheat on it, then we probably shouldn't do it. So my point is that perhaps we could consider changing this motion for a resolution in committee so that it will be a sort of experimental scheme instead. I could imagine, too, that the authors might live with it instead of it being merely a no. After all, it is better to get something started and get some experience done, have some studies done, or whatever it may be, to move forward with the proposal. So we are positive about the idea of using the tax screw as behavior regulation, not just when punishing people, but also when encouraging people to do something better, such as, among other things, better. to take the bike.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323205751	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323205756	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur is quite right; I see it as a good opportunity to try and see how it works. And as to whether people cheat or not, I think we are talking about jobs. After all, there is no such great mass where you do not connect with each other. So shouldn't we just as well be confident that they will? So I'm very positive about making such an attempt. In relation to getting an analysis done, with regard to what other financial incentives there might be, what does the rapporteur think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323205829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323205831	To do an analysis work so you can learn more about this problem, I think it's obvious. Well, it's hard to be against. But I would also like to comment on the other point of cheating, which is that I find it difficult to see how to do it physically. In other words, if, as a company, you provide a subsidy or a contribution to the fact that you can take your bike between two companies, then the companies also know how far there is. So it is not the case that you give a compensation of 1,000 kroner if you should have only paid 50 kroner. It is not the case that the company or the municipality or the nursing home or the care of the elderly, or whoever it may be, just piss off money by giving people a much higher subsidy than they really should have had for these things. So there is also such an internal control mechanism that just keeps an eye on whether you have really drove this far on your bike or whether it is completely unrealistic. So I also have such a feeling that this possibility of fraud must be limited.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323205920	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And thank you for getting ready for the next rapporteur, who is also ready. It's the SF's rapporteur, and it's Mr. SF's. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323205938	Thank you. First of all, I think this is a very sympathetic proposal. SF has long fought to promote cycling and continues to do so. However, I do not know whether the tariff for the tax-free driving allowance is the most important place to address this. The proposal here is, as a starting point, unfunded, and we do not have infinite money, so it is also a matter of prioritising the money where it really moves something. And some of what I believe very much is better bike paths; it is more bike paths; it is to make it cheaper to repair your bike if you need what you often have; it is to ensure good bike parking, bicycle access in buses etc. There are a lot of things you can do to promote cycling. My experience is also that it is not always the economy which is crucial to the choice of the bicycle. It is at least as much about the culture in the workplace and about the conditions for cyclists and motorists, and whether there are loan bikes, for example. can be used at work, which I think could make a huge difference. So it is an excellent proposal, and it is an important debate, but it is not immediately my view that this is the most effective thing to do for the means, neither in terms of behavioural changes nor in terms of climate impact, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210059	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment. It's from Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210104	I mean, I'm thinking that the people who move from car to bicycle have already received driving allowances. So that group won't cost extra. So if the rapporteur thinks that it is suddenly a huge new group that is starting to ride, it will of course cost something, but, on the other hand, it will save on health costs in the municipality. The municipality is, of course, like a single entity. So I do not quite understand why the rapporteur is concerned that funding should be large and expensive. I'm thinking that what we need is a lot of creeks small.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210147	It is not necessarily because I believe it will be extremely expensive, but I would just point out that it is unfunded. And, of course, it is important, when you make some proposals, that they are also funded. But it is clear that how much this is going to cost depends on the changes that are going to be made. Those who take the bike no matter what will then have to receive a higher amount as a consequence of this proposal and they will cost extra. But it is true, as Mrs Susanne Zimmer says, that those who will potentially go from car to bike will not be a major expense then it is what it is. I'm not terribly worried about what this is going to cost, but I'm just saying that, as a starting point, it's not SF's financial priority. We have some other things in the field of bicycles which we think are essential and which we really believe will also be more effective for those funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210228	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210230	I do not understand why one should exclude the other, because this is a small grip that is easy to implement. So the one question is: how about making an experimental scheme, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær suggests? That's one. The other thing is that every time someone bikes, we save those 8 kr. per km in health costs. This means that there will be fewer sick days. So the individual company will save some sick days. We know that sick days cost a dangerous amount of money, so it could really quickly be a gain in the broad perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210309	We have not just decided whether it would be sensible to set up an experimental scheme. Maybe you could take a look at that. I don't want to rule that out. In relation to saving money on people's bikes: Yes, certainly! That is also why we want to promote cycling in all possible ways and fight for both the municipal and here in the Folketing and we in the area have made agreements with the government, as the traffic rapporteurs have stood for etc. So there's plenty of focus on this, and we'd love to promote cycling. The question is, is this particular model the most effective? And we don't necessarily believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210339	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur to come up here, and that is Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, who is Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210403	This motion for a resolution would like to equate the rate of tax-free driving allowance for the use of a work-related bicycle with the rate of driving. In addition, an analysis is requested of which further tax initiatives could promote cycling in Denmark. Cyclism is very close to the heart of Enhedslisten, and we are very proud that we managed to allocate 520 million. kr. on this year's financial law for several bike paths, but it definitely does not end here. We want to create a Danish bicycle infrastructure of absolute world class. That is why we will also go to the forthcoming infrastructure negotiations with a demand that 10 billion be set aside. kr. over the next 10 years to several cycle paths across the country. The rules on transport allowances are now very technical and complicated, and the transport allowance helps to drive more and more by car. It creates tribulation and at the same time harms the climate. It is the view of Enhedslisten that a more general review of the rules should be carried out. When we look at the rules as they are today, there is a great deal of overcompensation in the rules on tax-free driving allowances, and then the question is whether, when we have some rules that really ought to be reviewed and which already overcompensated some commuters, we can support a further extension of these rules in relation to an otherwise noble purpose: to promote cycling. The proposal here could lead to people who today receive the tax-free driving allowance continuing to receive the same rate, just to cycle, which could also make the proposal relevant to people commuting over a little longer distances by bicycle. The cost to the Treasury will thus be the same. We are in the Enhedslisten to be positive about this motion for a resolution, and we are doing so with the following comments: if the proposal should now be able to bring together 90 seats in the Danish Parliament, we will propose in the Enhedslisten: that negotiations be convened on this basis, which should both be about finding funding for the proposal; it does not contain the proposal today; it should also mean that we should more generally have a review of the rules in this area. The last point is also included in the motion for a resolution, since the authors of the motion for a resolution propose an analysis of what further tax initiatives could promote cycling in Denmark. However, we believe that it is also relevant to look at the overcompensation that drivers today can get by, for example. to opt for tax-free driving allowances over the ordinary transport allowance. With those comments, Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210652	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210713	Thank you very much. With the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution would like to equate the tariff for driving allowances with that for the use of bicycles with that for the use of cars. Without necessarily coming as a great surprise to the proposers, I would like to say that we in the Conservative People's Party cannot support this. Of course, there are several reasons for this. We would very much like people for whom it is possible to choose the bike. After all, it is both a healthier and a more environmentally friendly alternative to the car. However, driving allowances are something you get to pay for some expenses. The cost of keeping and using a bike is everything else equal something lower than they are when using a car. My excellent colleague from the Left said earlier about what the costs are for cars, and that is right, whereas there is a little tire and a little oil for bicycles, and these are quite different costs associated with it. This proposal actually seeks to provide a subsidy for the expenses that are not borne by anyone. We think that's a little crooked. Secondly, just less than a month ago, we in the Parliamentary Assembly decided that a new national bicycle strategy should be drawn up, in which case, among other things, it should be set up. That is why I think we should wait for what the overall strategy indicates before we begin to adopt motions for resolutions to short-circuit the work that we have together set in motion. Finally, we do not think that people should be given cool cash, even tax-free, in order to regulate behaviour by choosing a bicycle over all kinds of other means of transport. In those words, I can conclude that we cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210928	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210932	Thank you to the rapporteur. Will the rapporteur support an analysis of economic incentives in terms of getting more people on the bike to save health costs, or is this also completely out of the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323210946	That is how I am going to repeat myself now that we decided that a national bicycle strategy should be drawn up, where it is among other things. It is clear that the strategy must address the great potential for CO2 so we will do so in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323211008	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323211009	In other words, if we come to the conclusion that this could be a good handle on the bicycle infrastructure, will the rapporteur support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323211019	Then the rapporteur will look at it together with all the other good proposals, which will probably also come within the framework of the national bicycle strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323211024	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And thank you also for getting ready for the New Citizens' rapporteur. Welcome to the next rapporteur, Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323211043	New citizens are a party that likes decentralisation, and I wonder a little about this proposal, because if there are any municipalities out there who think it is a good idea, I think they should just run away with it. Then you mention that there's an experiment over in Randers that's done it. I know that the rapporteur is calling for such analyses. I do not know if the rapporteur has had contact with Randers, they have run it in, I think it was in 2016 and 2017, i.e. 2 years, so they must have some experience with it. So there is no reason to put a great deal of work into analysis from here centrally, if in fact there are some municipalities that have experience with it, because then you can draw on the experience from it. But as I see it, Randers City has done it, and if they're happy about it, then they have to do it. Korsør and all sorts of other municipalities can do the same if they think it's something they want to do for their municipal employees out there. That is our position on it. But we do not support having to deal with it centrally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323211140	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323211145	Now it's just that in the City of Copenhagen they say it's not possible. So apparently there's something that doesn't make it simple. So would the rapporteur be interested in looking at what it is then that it is not just easy to do for the City of Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323211202	It's probably because they won't pay for it, I think. It'll just be my guess. And I understand it's not that simple if you don't want to pay the bill yourself. It may well be that the City of Copenhagen would rather have the Treasury pay the bill than have to pay the bill themselves. But the rapporteur can, of course, contact the City of Copenhagen and ask if that is the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323211220	There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I should also like to welcome the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals. This is Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323211247	Thank you for the floor. This is, as is now clear, a proposal to promote cycling in commercial driving. As we wish, the Folketing must require the government to take the necessary initiatives before the end of the 2020-21 parliamentary year to equate the tariff for the tax-free driving allowance for work-related use of bicycles with the tariff for the use of cars. We also propose that the government be required to prepare an analysis which will identify which further tax initiatives could promote cycling in Denmark. After all, driving allowances are one of many factors in promoting cycling, as has been shown here earlier. In Denmark we pride ourselves on being a leading cycling nation, but in recent years several of us have chosen the bike from. Figures from the Road Directorate show that there is a significant decrease in bicycle traffic from 2014 to 2019 of approx. 15% Danish Bike Industry, an association of bicycle dealers representing far more than half of the bicycle dealers, notes a decrease of 46%. from 2011 to 2018, and 63 per cent; for children's and junior bikes. Even during the corona, where we have detected several cyclists, sales have only increased by 2%. in 2020. This proposal will motivate us to take the bicycle over the car during working hours, and it will also mean that we will have more role models. Recently, we had a large majority behind a report on establishing a national bicycle strategy. We were Greens in it, and we think it is very good. Now we are putting forward this small concrete, effective proposal which can help reverse negative developments through economic incentives. A comparison of the rate of tax-free driving allowance for the use of work-related use of the bicycle with the rate of use of the car may be one of the means of reversing developments. At the same time, however, it is important to stress that there is a need for a multi-faceted effort, which is why it is also proposed to impose an analysis work on the government in relation to what else we can find from economic incentives to promote cycling in Denmark and continue to be a cycling country. We need a greener and healthier infrastructure, a structure that reduces air pollution and which increases public health. Jumping on the bike is more climate-friendly. A bike emits 90 per cent. less CO 2 driven kilometers than a car does. If you ask the Danes, they see the bike as an important part of the solution when it comes to creating a more climate-friendly and sustainable society. In a study by MEGAFON for the Cyclist League, 84 per cent say that they either fully or largely agree that we in Denmark should prioritize cycling and remain a cycling country. In the justification for this, 87 per cent emphasise that the bike is good for climate and environment. This means that the Danes support the promotion of cycling. Air pollution causes about 4,200 people to die prematurely each year, and a study of air pollution from 2019 shows that in Copenhagen alone air pollution is responsible for approx. 440,000 annual sick days. In addition, it is of course beneficial for public health if more Danes take the bike instead of the car because it minimizes a wide range of diseases, including diabetes, heart disease and several forms of cancer. In addition to major benefits such as better public health, better climate and less air pollution, taking the bike and choosing the car from, of course, will also result in less noise from car traffic, as well as less congestion and congestion. If we have fewer cars, it will minimise the need for roads and create better opportunities for bicycle paths and for urban nature. It is good for society as a whole. Every time a citizen bikes 1 km, society saves 8 DKK, because the health effects are so great. The socio-economic benefits of cycling are twice as high as hitherto assumed, and this is because the health effects are so great compared to taking a car, bus or train. Jeppe Rich, professor at the Technical University of Denmark, points out that almost no matter how to turn it and turn it, it is good for society as a whole if more bicycles. In addition, in 2016, the tax minister replied that an increase in the cycling allowance to the low car driving allowance would not have significant socio-economic consequences. Today, the remuneration for cycling during working hours is 54 øre, and for driving it is 3 kr. 52 cents. In the case where more people change their own car with bicycle riding, it will not be more expensive for society, as an increased amount of mileage allowance for cyclists will be matched by a decrease in driving compensation for driving. It is problematic that there is no possibility of giving employees financial incentives to make the transport choice that is best for the environment and for health. It is important that we promote the Danish economic incentive to choose the bicycle as a means of transport in everyday life, as experience shows that financial incentives have a major impact on our behaviour. We can look at developments in recent years that have gone in the wrong direction and we need to use other means. The Cyclist League also stresses the need for financial incentives to commute its bicycle instead of in its car. There are many ways to do this and which will have different economic outcomes for the state, the municipality and the employer, depending on which solution one gets put together. In the past, the importance of financial incentives has led many health organisations at home to shout loudly. The Cancer Society, the Heart Association, the Diabetes Association, the Consumer Council, the Danish Bicycle Dealers and the Cyclist League have pointed out in this context that precisely driving allowances using bicycle as a means of transport are an important tool for promoting cyclism. However, there are also tools other than increasing the cost of driving during working hours, which are also necessary. In this context, you can look at experiences of financial incentives from abroad, including Belgium and Ireland. The cycling strategy in Belgium requires employers to pay EUR 0.1 per year. kilometres to cycling commuting employees tax-free, and employers can pay up to EUR 0.24 per year. kilometers without an upper limit, including tax-free. On the other hand, the employer receives 120 per cent deduction for bicycles made available free of charge to the employees, including service and maintenance. In the cycling strategy in Ireland, employees can buy bicycles and equipment for up to EUR 1,250 for ordinary bicycles and EUR 1,500 for electric bicycles via a gross wage scheme. You have to fill in a Declaration of Faith and Law that you use it for commuting. In the Free Greens, we also welcome the possibility of changing the system of driving allowances in order to commute to and from work, so that a proper, ambitious framework can also be put in place to promote bicycle commuting. We must keep in mind that there is an increased possibility of health, that more bicycles, that we save money, that it brings about a climate reduction, and that it alleviates the challenges of hardship and thus saves money. There are only advantages to the fact that there are more of us who cycle rather than driving or using public transport. In those words and the other comments, I refer the proposal to the favourable treatment of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212056	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212113	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. Malte Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212133	Thank you. After all, it is a very good arrangement that there are many places reserved for parking spaces close to the entrance to shopping centres, shops, public institutions for people with a physical handicap. The prerequisite for the good action to benefit the disabled, as intended, is for all other drivers to refrain from using precisely these parking spaces. Unfortunately, this is not always the case, and that is why we are putting forward the first part of this legislative proposal. The second part of the bill is about the fact that there are often unpaid parking fees for illegal parking along the state road network. This is what we are trying to change with this bill by increasing incentives to pay quickly. The draft law introduces a provision that also stops in a parking lot reserved for disabled parking are subject to an increased tax equal to twice the normal tax. Thus, the level of tax on illegal stoppages and illegal parking in parking spaces is treated as reserved for use by people with disabilities. The amendment will apply to all parking spaces which indicate either by means of a board or marking on the asphalt that the parking booth may be used only for stopping and parking vehicles bearing an authorisation. The second part is that the bill is then about reducing the amount of the parking charge by stopping within specified time limits by illegal parking along the state road network. The bill provides for the introduction of differentiated parking charges issued by the Federal Ministry of Transport for illegal stoppages and parking for trucks and buses on state roads. With this new provision, the person who has received a parking charge will have to pay a small tax, the sooner a tax is paid. It is an action to promote good payment behaviour in relation to parking charges by promoting drivers and the vehicle owner's incentive to quickly pay the tax. Since 1 January 2019 Færdselsstyrelsen has carried out the task of parking control on the state road network. The Danish Transport Authority's control is aimed at Danish as well as foreign vehicles. In connection with the inspection by the Danish Trade Authority, it can be noted that there is a challenge to recover parking fees which are issued to foreign vehicles despite the resting places of the motorway network. It is therefore proposed that the parking charge be reduced if the tax is paid within a specified period. Specifically, it is proposed that the tax will amount to DKK 1,530 if the tax is paid within 6-24 days of the issue and DKK 1,020 if the tax is paid within 5 days of the issue. Thus, the levy will be reduced by 50% and 25% respectively. compared to the general tax level of DKr 2,040. The differentiation will apply to both Danish and foreign vehicles. These are good measures that will ensure that our parking spaces are used by the road users they are intended for. If others use them illegally, the hammer will fall harder. At the same time, we are increasing the likelihood that the charges for illegal parking along the national road network will actually be paid by foreign drivers in particular. All of these are good measures which the Social Democratic Party supports with this bill. I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212519	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212527	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for his excellent speech today. I am a little curious to hear whether the rapporteur actually believes that it has an effect to make faster payments and thus cheaper payments for foreign drivers and foreign hauliers compared to the situation we have today, where a very, very large part of the bills are not paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212551	Yeah, otherwise we wouldn't be doing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212556	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212558	Has the Ministry or the rapporteur so far calculated it and had a thought about how much more it would bring, i.e. how much more a percentage would pay the bills, compared to what it looks like today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212613	I have not seen any concrete figures for what the rapporteur is calling for, but it is possible that we can find them in connection with the work that is now going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212622	The next brief remark is to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212627	I would also like to ask the same question about the fact that foreign drivers now need up to 50%. discount because they won't pay their fines. So I really have to say that I was quite surprised when I read this, so I don't really think it makes any sense. So I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether it could be imagined in other areas. I mean, if a violent criminal doesn't want to come and serve his sentence, do you have to give a discount? Or can ordinary Danes, who may stop paying their parking tickets, so forward-lookingly drop by 50 per cent. Of the fine? Well, there's something in principle about this that at least upsets my understanding of the law. If foreign drivers just say to a large extent that they don't want to pay the fines, then they need 50%. discount. That's what this is about. Can the rapporteur himself not hear that it sounds completely crazy in relation to people's legal awareness?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212716	Now it's everyone who gets the discount on a quick deposit. And, of course, the proposal leads to the belief that with that discount you can ensure that there are more people who get paid the bonus they have with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212734	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212739	As far as I remember, the figures are that it is approx. 90% of all the fines imposed by foreign drivers who are not paid. Conversely, it is for Danish drivers 90% who pay. So it is true that the rules apply to all drivers, but it is the foreign drivers who are the problem. I just don't understand the logic of how to come to the conclusion that you have to give a discount on committing something illegal. Well, that is an insult to all those people who pay their fines or their taxes or even just accept the punishment they are now getting for what they have done. But if you are a foreign driver, you must have a 50% discount for committing something illegal in Denmark because otherwise you will not pay your fine. I think this is an insult to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212819	You can also turn it around that it is actually also a discount that will benefit the 90% who pay things on time, because they will also pay with the new ones just in the past and thus also get a share in the discount. Then, of course, there is work to be done to ensure that we never give up these things and that we have to cooperate more effectively in getting fines and charges levied across national borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212842	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur from the Left. It's sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323212902	Thank you for that, President. The bill here consists of two main elements. The first is about disabled parking. Some people are sometimes going to stop parking spaces for disabled people. That is selfish and disrespectful behaviour, and that is why we in the Left support the fact that the tax rate is also doubled for stopping, so that it is not just for parking. So that's a good part of this bill. The second is that we have a problem with illegal parking along the state road network, in particular at our rest stops along the motorways. We have trouble with a number of foreign drivers in particular forgetting to pay their fines. I mean, it's about 17 percent that remembers to pay the fine. In other words, there is a very large proportion which does not pay their fines. We fully agree that we have to take action against this. It is therefore proposed here that such a reward scheme should be made, so if you pay the fine very quickly, you will get a quite a discount. We have some doubts as to whether this is going to work. In fact, we are in doubt about that. But we're ready to give it a chance. In any case, we would like to ask a little more about the impact of this on the committee procedure. I fear it will not have much effect. I believe that, if we are to get those fines scratched in, there will have to be different, firm methods for that, and we are ready to discuss that too. But we are ready to give a chance to what the government is proposing, and that is why we support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323213054	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I appreciate that the platform is being made clear just as the rapporteur makes the next rapporteur. That's the thorough cleaning, I see. Thank you very much. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323213113	Thank you. As the debate has already shown, this draft law contains two elements, the first of which is to impose higher fines on people who wrongly use the parking spaces for disabled people to stop without really being allowed to do so. In short, you don't have this sign in the windshield to show you're actually allowed to park there. Nowadays, if you make a stop, you get a fine of DKK 510, but if you make a parking like that in some places, the fine is DKK 1,020. So in all silence, the proposal is simply to standardise the two rates so that both stops and parking will be fined DKK 1,020, and we think that is quite reasonable. So, as both the rapporteur of the Left and the Socialist rapporteur have said, it is a mistake to use disabled parking spaces in this way when you are not entitled to do so. So I think it is quite fair for the two tariffs to be set on an equal footing, which means that one of them will be raised. Then there is the second part of the proposal, which we are not surprisingly surprised to see in the light of my brief remark before the debate is somewhat more critical of, or rather opposed to. It is about parking tickets for foreign drivers who park along state roads, typically in rest places or on ramps towards highways and such places. We ourselves, together with the previous government, have helped to increase the fine. The challenge is to find it difficult to get the money in the box, to put it as it is, because it is only 17 per cent that pays the fines. Here, in order to solve the problem of discounting if people pay the fine, and frankly, I think that is a rather strange model. If you pay the fine later than 25 days after the issue, you must pay 2,040 DKK.; if you pay within 25 days, the amount is DKK 1,530.; and if you pay within 5 days, you get 50 per cent. discount and is down to 1.020 DKK. Honestly, I think it's a little crazy. Why should you have a discount on punishment? You don't do that in any other area. Think about it if it spread. Should it be that if violent criminals didn't want to be served, they should have a discount on the time they were going to sit in? Or if everyone else drives too fast and doesn't want to pay the fines, should the Danes just generally have a discount on the fines? 'Cause if they did, they might pay them. I think it would be a bad idea to do it that way. The solution must surely be to go another way: to tell these drivers that if they are caught in a rest stop that they have held for too long, they must pay at box one. Then they'll have to pay before they move on. That is how a lot of other legislation works. If you, for example, If you have a car that is not safe to drive, do not drive it until it is in order. Here, too, one could just say to drivers that if they do not pay before they move on, they cannot go anywhere. Alternatively, you could choose to use license plate scanners at the border so that when you come back after a month and drive around without paying, you are stopped and not allowed to drive before you pay. That would be an even better model. I agree that it is said that it is a fine for the person in the cab, and I do not know whether it is the same person who sits in the truck, but why not give the fine in a way so that it is put on the truck itself or the towing machine you drive? Actually, I think it would be much better. One could, for example: put it on the truck with the goods behind it, because it is typically a Danish expedition car. Perhaps East Europeans are hired in on harsh conditions to drive the truck. That's also why they're sleeping in the restrooms. But in this way it will suddenly have a consequence for them that they got these fines, and then it would be their responsibility to pass them on to the people who are behind them who drive the trucks. I understand that there must be a solution so that we get this money in the box, but the solution is not to give penalty rebates. The solution must surely be that we hit harder and demand an immediate payment, or require that the fine be placed either on the truck or on the trail behind. Quite frankly, we think it is a pretty bad idea to give a discount in order to counter the fact that you choose not to pay. It might well be feared that it began to spread to other areas. If people collectively said they didn't want to pay their taxes, should we pay less taxes? Or should we have lower fines if they didn't want to pay their fines? That's not the answer. The solution is to get people to pay, and then you have to hit hard on those who don't want to pay. That's gotta be the answer to this. So the second part of the proposal cannot be supported, and I would therefore ask that the bill be split up, because we can in fact support the first part on disabled parking spaces.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323213523	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323213539	Indeed, this draft law is in two parts, and I think that the content of the previous rapporteurs has been explained quite thoroughly, so I do not want to go into that. But basically, this is about two things. First of all, we need people to stop parking illegally. That's why we have parking fees. And secondly, we need people to pay their parking fees when they get them. That is what is so essential in the two parts of this bill. And right here it is so centered around illegal parking in disabled parking spaces and around the tax for trucks and buses. In the SF we don't have the same doubts, so you have in the Left, in terms of whether this will work, but it has to come to a test. That is why we support the bill, and then we have to evaluate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323213634	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323213651	Travelling in traffic can be a major challenge for people with disabilities, and in many places not enough attention is still being paid to people with disabilities. Therefore, it is also crucial that disabled parking places are established, which are reserved only for people with disabilities and which we must be absolutely sure are available when people with disabilities have to trade or when work needs to be cared for. Unfortunately, the reserved parking spaces are being used by people without a handicap to the detriment of the citizens who need the space. It's really bad style. That is why the Enhedslisten also supports the lifting of the penalty for stopping, as this draft law proposes, and hopefully it will mean that fewer people will stop unjustly in parking spaces reserved for people with disabilities. In the context of the legislative process, it might also be appropriate to clarify whether there is in fact data on whether there is a link between the level of fines and the number of illegal stoppages and parking in disabled parking spaces. The second part of the bill provides for a differentiation of parking charges, which are granted on motorways' rest areas, i.e. that the amount of the fine is determined by the speed with which the fine is paid. The aim is to ensure that more fines are recovered, particularly from foreign vehicles. That is only extremely sensible and something for which Enhedslisten has been pushing for a long time. As the draft law shows, as has also been mentioned from the platform, it is now only a paltry 17%. of the foreign vehicles which pay the parking charges at all. It is unsustainable and far too low. In the past, the Enhedslisten has criticised the lack of recovery and pressed for the collections from foreign hauliers to be managed. That part of the bill must therefore ensure an increase in the collection of parking charges by making a differentiated amount of fines. In practice, it will mean a 50% discount if the tax is paid within five days. It must of course be kept up against the fact that the level of fines was significantly increased in 2018 for among others. to ensure that fewer truck drivers break the max rule. 25 hours of parking at rest places, a dish that is often broken by foreign drivers. The general level of parking fees was then raised from DKK 510. ed 2,000 kroner. and hit drivers across a wide comb. With this bill, we will then give an opportunity to relax slightly on the level of fines if the fine is paid quickly. And that could be fine if it means that the fines are actually paid. I may well have some doubts about that, but despite this bill, we still have a problem in getting to grips with the actual recovery of parking charges from foreign vehicles. We're not really gonna solve that with this bill. Therefore, it would also be sensible for the Minister of Transport to inform Parliament in a year's time whether the law has had the desired effect, namely that more parking fees are paid and the number of illegal parking is decreasing. Despite these comments, Enhedslisten supports the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214018	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214021	I just want to know what the scope of Enhedslisten's views are in relation to the fact that you give discounts on fines if you pay them earlier. Should it also apply to Danish drivers who just drive a car, i.e. who get a parking ticket or a speeding ticket, where, if you pay it within 5 days, there must be 50 per cent. discount? Or what if you pay your taxes on time... do you have to have lower taxes? Or what about your day-care center? If you pay for it on time, do you have to have half a price at the day-care center? After all, there is something here about justice in relation to people who are actually doing what they are going to do, where someone is rewarded, i.e. get half price, because they are not So, can Enhedslisten also see that there are some principles in this that are going to go away when you give a discount on punishment with the argument where you say, well, well, they didn't comply with the rules? I mean, can't you hear for yourself that things are going a little bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214107	No, it will not have to be a general principle if Enhedslisten could be allowed to decide. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I think it is good that we try this out if it is the assessment that it can have an effect on this area of illegal parking in rest places. But I would also very much like to see us get an orientation and a status on it in a year's time, just as I asked the Minister last week to come up with a status on how it looks with the actual recovery out there by the Danish Debt Authority and the Ministry of Commerce.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214139	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214141	It is always wise, I think, also to get an evaluation into when it comes to the sort of things you do here, in fact also when it is a matter of principle. So I really want to hear Enhedslisten about whether you want to take part in another proposal, where you make such a review clause on this, which could be one year ahead or two years ahead, to have a look at whether it has had the desired effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214204	The crucial thing for us is to recover those parking fees, and I think it makes sense to look at whether a review clause should be entered.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214213	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is ready. That is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservative Group. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214230	Thank you very much. As a starting point, we find the proposal generally somewhat sympathetic. It is clear that the first part is even very sympathetic, and it is of course the case that people with disabilities must be able to park in front of their accommodation, their institution, their grocery store in Randers or on Als, or where we are now at Vejle. Preventing people with disabilities from parking close to where they should now be is a deep, deeply unsympathetic act, even if there is only a stop in quotation marks. In relation to the other part of the proposal, it is nice to see that the few Danish road hauliers who take a break and who have very, very difficult to get a parking space in the Danish rest areas have an opportunity at least to get rid of cheaper. We have nothing against this as such from the point of view of the fact that there is simply no place in the Danish rest places. So here I really think that the organisations that are in play around the road haulage industry are coming up very, very well. As far as foreign drivers are concerned, I simply do not believe that there will be more people paying the fines, and it is clear that this is something that I intend to spend some time asking about in committee: what do you see here? And what does the Minister see there are opportunities for? In my world, there must be substantial, considerably stricter means. But something is better than nothing, and that is why we are very much looking forward to following and participating in the committee procedure. As I said, a number of issues will be raised in particular in relation to the last part on foreign drivers, but as a starting point we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214443	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. It's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214459	I can be very brief. First part of this bill about stopping and parking, we think we're fine, second half isn't so good. Firstly, we think that the fines for Danish hauliers may be too high in advance. Secondly, we don't believe that this solves it in relation to the foreign. We believe that we could make an immediate recovery. That would be quite natural. You do that in many other places. Asking them to pay right away is the only thing that's gonna work on this. We don't believe in the other part of the solution. So we're positive about the first. The second is not very useful.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214536	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I see no rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, and I can therefore welcome the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323214555	Thank you, President. Thank you for your comments to the rapporteurs. As you know, as has been said very clearly, there are two elements of the draft law. The one element that concerns disabled parking is very widely connected to. Thank you. I do not think anyone can have the slightest doubt that we must, of course, ensure that those who have a special sign to be able to park in the disabled parking lot and have a special preference for it can have access to it. It is by its very nature that one cannot necessarily know whether the available disabled parking space, which is there, will be used in half a minute by a person who has a special need. That is why the parking lot is reserved, and then there is no point in someone taking the chance, if I may say so. So thank you for the very accommodating words that have been given about it. In relation to the second part, which deals with reducing the amount of the parking charge by payment within specified time limits, various comments have been made. Left says they're ready to give it a chance. I think that is a very sympathetic approach to things. Conservatives' rapporteur, Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen points out that there is also an element in this that there are some Danish hauliers who are currently receiving parking tickets to a rather modest extent. But it is true that there are some who get it. You can sometimes be in a situation where you place your vehicle in an unlucky way, and so it is that you can get a parking charge, and it is true that the figures indicate that payment deadlines are being met, and so it is also true, as Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen points out that there is a very high probability that most of the Danish hauliers will thus also be covered by this discount, and that they will thus also get off a little cheaper. It is also true that the fact that you make this early payment discount will not in itself have such an effect that all foreign unpaid taxes will be eliminated. Therefore, this should not be seen as an isolated measure either. It is very important that a private operator has also just entered into an agreement to recover foreign debts in this area and that, of course, it is playing with this. So the proposal here is not alone. It has been discussed along the way whether it can be imagined that this is being evaluated, evaluated or otherwise. There is no doubt that the combination of an external company, a private company seeking to recover abroad on behalf of the State, and so this scheme, which is being proposed in this bill, will clearly have an overall effect. Therefore, it will also make very good sense that at the end of 2022 we, the Ministry of Transport, will make a further assessment of this to the Committee on Transport. Then we in the Committee on Transport can then assess whether there is a need to go further. Of course, we will do the same from the Ministry of Transport. In any case, I would like to state here that such a detailed assessment of the overall effect of this has certainly been in the right way, without the need for a proper review clause in the proposal. In any case, I would like to make that clear from this point of view. In addition, thank you for the comments you have made. I am, of course, looking forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215017	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister. It's from sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215021	First of all, I would like to thank you for your statement that you want to be involved in evaluating this. I can also live with the fact that it will not be such a review clause that has been written into the law, but it could possibly be a contribution from the parties to the report, which was then indicated that we supported it. We can talk about this in committee. What I really wanted to ask is why has it been chosen to go the way to relax payments? I mean, why do you give a discount instead of tightening up and saying that, for example? was settlement by cashier one, to put it quite directly, or something else • e.g. say that it is not at driver level that you pay the fine, but that you might put it on the truck itself or on the haul? Why has this solution been chosen, where it should be penalty rebates, instead of hitting down on those who do not pay? I'm a little curious about that. I can imagine that the Minister will say that this is a bad idea for me, otherwise it would probably have been proposed. But what are the considerations behind the choice of a soft road, I would say, where I might prefer the hard road?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215118	There have been various considerations at stake. There has also been, it might be said, the opposite consideration, i.e. whether to add to the amount of the fine if it was not paid in time. But from an overall assessment and in dialogue with the government's support parties, we have adopted the model which lies here and which, as a whole, is not unique, but together with some of the other initiatives that have been taken, among other things. with an external company that recovers abroad, is assessed as an overall palette that will provide a larger and more efficient payment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215204	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215207	But can the Minister understand, if it may be offensive to people's legal awareness, including my own, that because some people here collectively do not pay their fines, the solution is that they should have 50 per cent. What is the Commission's position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs? It is a strange logic, then, that because people do not abide by the rules and get a fine, but then do not pay, they must now have 50%. discount. Well, I just think it seems completely illogical with that conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215243	As Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen mentioned in his rapporteur's speech, it is true that there are a limited number of Danish hauliers who are fined, but they do get them, and it should therefore be remembered that the vast majority of them pay the fines on time, and thus they will also be covered by the discounts. Thus there is no discrimination between Danish hauliers who are fined and foreign. On the contrary, this will, as Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen also pointed out that, in the first place, it is probably a discount that falls primarily to the Danish hauliers, and if it is the case that the proposal does not work, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær suggests a little, there will be the advantage that then there is nothing done in it, because the only ones who then get an advantage out of it are the Danish hauliers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215337	The next brief remark is to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215341	Thank you very much. I would like to hear from the Minister about the huge challenge that we know there is here, with the size of rest places and the number of rest places and parking options. Now a European road package is likely to be implemented, and does the Minister see that it will give less parking in the future compared to the rest for foreign drivers? Or does the Minister think that it will be at the same level as today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215414	For the part of the parking tickets that is about parking more than 25 hours in a rest stop, it is mainly foreign drivers who make use of it, and that is already not permitted by the old directive. Now, with the road package, it has become clear that the long rest must not be settled in lorries, but some still do, and that is why I think it was quite wise when the previous government introduced this tightening and control for those who park for 25 hours or more in the rest places. And that is why I can hope that the road package will have an effect, but there will still be a need for parking areas and especially for the shorter rests, that is, typically for those who rest up to 8 hours. So the need for more parking spaces does not go away, but it should be the case that people comply with the rule by the 25 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215527	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215548	The following electoral groups were notified: a group of 98 members: Social Democracy, Socialist People's Party, Radical Left, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA), Siumut (SIU), Javnaðarflokkurin (JF), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) a group of 80 members: Left, Danish People's Party, Conservative People's Party, New Citizens, Liberal Alliance, Sambandsflokkurin (SP), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG), Inger Nøbberg (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG). The groups have appointed the following members: 1 Jesper Petersen (S) 2 Christian Rabjerg Madsen (S) 3 Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen (SF) 4 Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) 5 Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V) 6 Troels Lund Poulsen (V) 7 Sophie Løhde (V) 8 Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF). Notice of who has been elected according to the group recommendation will be included in www.folktingstidende.dk. The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210323215700	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 24 March 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
