ParlaMint-DK_20210826125958	The meeting is open. To begin with, I have the following announcements: Tommy Ahlers (V) has informed me that he resigns as a member of the Folketing per year. 11 August 2021. From a member of the Folketing, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), who has been on leave, I have been informed that from 17 August 2021 onwards she can again meet at the Ting. Mad Andersen (KF) post as a temporary member of the Folketing of the Conservative People's Party has then ceased from that date. From the Conservative People's Party Parliamentary Group, I have been informed that member of the Folketing Nase Khader per. 18 August 2021 is no longer a member of the Parliamentary Group of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826130058	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826130107	Before we start on item 1 of the agenda, I can also say that, after a period of many covid-19 restrictions, we are now returning to more normal conditions in this Chamber too. As Members can see, there is no longer plexiglas in front of the chair it is pleasant and, as far as voting is concerned, it will in future be done by using the electronic voting system from the member's own seat. However, it will continue to be the case that one should remember to wipe off the platform when one goes down from the platform so that it is ready for the next Member. And so we can start with today's only item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826130205	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826130220	Thank you. It's quite a sight from down here with a lot of red shirts that we can see up in the gallery. On the way in this morning I heard on the radio that there was a labour market professor who said that, in order to make an intervention, there must be three different elements present and that the three elements need not be any that occur at the same time. The first element was that the conflict, the conflict at issue, should have been running for a long time, in other words that there should at least be a period of time in relation to the conflict before it was part of it. It should also be the case that this conflict would have a negative effect or a negative consequence in the area of the conflict. And the last, the third element, was that the negotiated solution was hopeless. There, I think, I can only say today that all three of the elements described here are in fact present, and I think that is one of the reasons why we have to work on legislative measures today. It is the case that since 19 June 2021 the ongoing working conflict between the Danish Nursing Council, Danske Regioner and KL has been going on, which means that it is one of the longest conflicts, at least in recent times. I think it is quite clear that the parties will not succeed in finding a negotiated solution to the conflict. That's too bad, of course. It is not the intention of the Danish Parliament to decide on the outcome of an agreement, but it has to be said that both parties have expressed themselves that Christiansborg now had to go in to find a solution to this conflict. And it can be said that this is a tool that we can and must use when these conflicts go into a stalemate, and that is why we are here today, because there are clearly limits to the length of time that important social institutions, such as health care, can bear to be struck by a strike and by conflict. The Danish Health Authority estimates that the current treatment delay for planned operations amounts to approx. 35 500 delayed operations. This means, according to the Danish Health Authority, that if the strike ended now, the backlog could be settled up to 2 years. So it can be said that it will already affect a great many Danes who are waiting for operations, and it is clear that the prospect of allowing the conflict to continue without seeing a solution at the end of it will only reinforce the challenges facing health. So it is now Parliament's job to resolve the conflict that the parties have not been able to resolve at the negotiating table, and that is why the government is proposing the bill here so that the work in the areas affected by the conflict can be resumed. The bill is to renew the agreement in question until 31 May 2024 as well as the agreed renewals of agreements in the other public sector. So the changes will be made on the basis of the mediator's mediation proposal. It is a mediation proposal, which is also recommended by the parties' negotiating committees, and that is to say, as a starting point, it means that the legislative action will be within the framework agreed by the parties themselves. We will then also set up a pay structure committee to create a common basis for further discussions on wage formation in the Danish labour market. I look forward to seeing the outcome of that work because, although I agree that we have some unequal wage challenges, there are a number of mechanisms behind which I think most people do not have the full overview. I understand that there are a lot of frustrated and disappointed nurses around the country. I think that is perfectly understandable. I think there are many of us who are really sorry today that this is the end of a long process, because there are no winners of this conflict. But I also believe that some of these frustrations, and that is also what I have heard, cover something other than pay. I think it is also about the fact that we have been running too hard for a long time, that we have less time with citizens and more time with documentation and computers, and that we have slowly lost codecision over and influence on work. We are also prepared to look seriously at the problems that you are asking us for, and we are focusing our attention on that. I don't believe we're going to make needle-stick solutions, but we owe it to you to proceed properly and seriously and thoroughly, and that's what I think we're doing with a pay structure committee. In conclusion, let me stress that the nurse's conflict cannot and must not be equated with the teacher's conflict in 2013. The government and the Social Democrats do not have a desire to flatter anyone, and I would say that if, like, it becomes the claim that is going to be, I do not think it will be good in relation to the further process. We are ready to listen on the part of the Social Democratic Party, and from this point of view I should like to express my thanks for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826130808	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it is Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826130814	Thank you. I must admit that I think there is something completely paradoxical about hearing, on the one hand, about the vitality and importance of the work that is being done and, on the other hand, about the need for it to be resumed and, on the other hand, about the government's unwillingness to ensure that the people who carry out these critical tasks receive the pay they deserve. That is why I have to ask: can there be a solution to the inequality in the public labour market without providing new funding to increase the female-dominated professions? I would like the rapporteur to reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826130855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826130856	We've already said that we're now making this pay structure committee that's going to look at these different elements. It is, moreover, a proposal that has come from the main trade union organisation which goes in and says: now we have to look at the regulatory mechanism in relation to the private labour market; we have to look at the general wage formation and the structure of it. That is to say, in relation to the discussion we have had about the 1969 civil service reform, etc., we are getting all these elements into this, and there will be a result. I myself mentioned in my introduction that there is an unequal wage problem. So we cannot deny that there is also an economic challenge in relation to this, but to start to pre-discount and put sums on it seems to me to be wrong. We simply have to wait and see what this committee is coming up with. We have then said that we will follow it closely, and we will, of course, do so when the result of this comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826130949	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826130950	However, one could easily vote in favour of the amendment that we in the Enhedslist are going to put forward that the government should call for negotiations, so that we actually ensure that there is some funding that goes with it. For there is a need for there to be some crowns that come with it. That's why I'm just gonna have to bite something. For now the rapporteur himself says that the committee must base itself on what the parties have agreed on, and the Minister has also always said that it is the draft of the parties that is being raised to law, but that is quite wrong. The parties have not agreed on anything. The nurses have voted no twice. Isn't it a little wrong to try to wipe this off on the parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131024	Well, when we talk about the parties, it is after all about the fact that there have been some negotiations, both the first and the second time, between the two parties that have been there. And it can only be said that, in the negotiations that have been held with the main organisation, we have, in fact, reached an agreement twice. I am therefore in favour of, and accept, the fact that Members did not want to say yes to this, but as a starting point they have said yes as a party, as an organisation, in relation to the two debates that have taken place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131053	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131056	Thank you. When I hear the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party speaking, I hear an apology for an apology for making an unreasonable and unfair legislative intervention. One hides behind labour market professors, behind pressure on health care, although one has closed one's eyes to this conflict for weeks, one hides behind a new pay structure committee, although there was also one in 2008 who stressed that one had a problem. I think it is shameful for our welfare societies. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is: where will the thousands of nurses from whom we jointly believe there are shortcomings come from? Where are the midwives who are currently missing in the maternity wards to come from? Where should the educators, whom we would like to have to look after our children when we introduce minimum standards, come from when they are currently fleeing the professions and are likely to do so even more because of your legislative action?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131154	I think I would like to stress that there has been an overall agreement in the public sector, in which most of the parties, except the nurses, have actually agreed to the result and the agreements that have been made in this connection. So I think that when you look broadly, you just have to say that most organisations have recognised the negotiated solution that is in this area. But now it is mentioned, and it was also one of the things I mentioned in my introduction, that this is not just a question of wages, it is also a question of general conditions, a question of norms, that is to say what kind of working conditions we provide, and I would just like to say that there I think that we, as a government, have actually tried to cancel a large part of those automatic 2 percent savings that have been made in the past. In relation to the agreements with both municipalities and regions, we have been in and actually have made some of the best agreements over the last 10 years. So I actually think we're trying to address some of the challenges that are here. It is not the same as that we are in the goal, nor is it the same as that we have solved them in the long term, but I believe that this committee, which is here, will help in some way or other to get the wage part in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131307	Mrs Mai Villadsen for a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131308	I am sorry that the rapporteur does not respond at all to where his hands should come from. But then I would like to ask about the policy of the Social Democratic Party, because the rapporteur must know something about that. Back in 2008, there was a comparable situation. There was a pay committee which stressed that there was a problem of unequal pay and low pay in the public sector. There the Social Democratic Party said that 5 billion would be set aside. kr. Every year with us in Enhedslisten, SF and Dansk Folkeparti, but there was not a majority; it simply failed. What's changed? Why does the whole area suddenly have to be buried again? Why does the Social Democrats not want to contribute to a single extra crown?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131351	I have not denied that there will be no money or that there will be money in connection with it. However, we have recognised, as has been the case, that there has been collective bargaining in the whole of the public sector now, where virtually everyone has said yes. In this way, the parties to the organisation have also agreed to the result that was here at first. So we've said that we're gonna set up this pay structure committee to finally get this 100 percent figured out, and then we're gonna have to see what kind of solutions it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131425	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I give the next question, I should just like to express my regret that there is a little delay in the sound at least from up here when Members ask questions. I do not know if the same applies in the Chamber. Some places nod and shake your head elsewhere. Nevertheless, we are just trying to see whether there are problems with the synchronisation of Members' seats. The next brief remark is to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131449	Thank you very much. Sir. Henrik Møller concluded his speech by saying that if some of us compared it to the teacher conflict, then we could not enter into dialogue. So I will compare it with the medical conflict that same year, in 2013, when it was also a social democratic government that came up with a legislative action against general practitioners. If you had now made the effort to look at what happened after 2013, you would have seen that there were more doctors who subsequently terminated the agreement on the clinic; that there were fewer who applied for general medicine in medical school; and that today we are faced with a dwindling deficit of general practitioners. So what is the effect of once again introducing a legislative measure with exactly the same thing that has been rejected? You hear nurses saying, "We're looking elsewhere." What makes you make the same mistake one more time? And the last question is: does Mr. Henrik Møller, that the Danish model works with the health care staff?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131554	Let me take the last part first, in relation to whether the Danish model works. I also mentioned earlier that what we have to remember is that when we talk about the whole of the public sector, there has been an agreement that has been accepted by virtually all parties. The only thing we have now is in relation to the nursing part where you haven't said yes to this. So I think that, when we have had a conflict in one area, it is said that the Danish model does not work now, it is going a little too far. But it is not the same as that there can be no challenges with the way the Danish model is arranged in relation to the public sector. But I think that's a question you have to take afterwards when we're on the other side of this legislative action, so is there any other way we can do this at all? We could have let this conflict go any further. The only question is, who would it have served? I mean, would it have been good for anyone? Both sides had expressed the view that all the possibilities for negotiation had been exhausted, and it was asked that we should now take action by the government. What we do then is to remove the conciliation text that has actually been made into law, and I think that is OK.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131706	Thank you. Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131708	Yes, you could have continued it longer, but when you come up with a procedure that says nothing but what you said from the start, why didn't you do it already after a few weeks, because then the waiting list wouldn't have been so long, and then no patients had been neglected? So you could have done it right away instead of letting the summer vacation go, sending all ministers on summer vacation and then leaving the nurses out alone to fight their cause. I think that is under all the criticism that has not been made. I believe that the Danish model should be looked at, because we see nurses working in emergency preparedness in advance, and they do not have the opportunities that others have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131744	Well, again, I don't think there are any winners in this case, and I think that should be central to this. There is no one who can then say that this was a good thing or that it was a great result for some. I don't think so. But I also believe that when we intervene in a conflict, there will be many different opinions as to whether it was too early or too late or whether it was timely. First of all, I mentioned the three elements which are at least said to be present before any intervention is made, and there I have to say that they are in the current situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131819	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131822	Thank you. The rapporteur said that the conflict has been stalemated. I agree with that, and perhaps it has been for several weeks. For the truth is that the problem for which nurses have gone on the streets, and for which many other professional groups have also gone on the streets, could not be solved within that negotiating room, and we have always known that. Because it costs money, and it requires the government to take responsibility. So in my optics the negotiations have gone into a stalemate because the government has not taken responsibility for creating equal pay in Denmark. I think it is close to being bold when the rapporteur stands and insinuates that just because the educators, the midwives or the other professional groups have voted in favour, this is not so important to them, or this is not something that matters to them. It means so much to them! They've been out at the Palace Square on Tuesday after Tuesday, but they knew it would end like this. They knew it would end like this, because it is only the government that can change this, because it takes money to change the unequal wages we have in Denmark. Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826131922	It is, of course, a completely different starting point that is being described here, because this is the beginning of the negotiations that have been going on around the agreements. I am just trying to say that in the rest of the public sector, some agreements have been reached on this, but it is not the same as that I do not think it is fair what has been said about this conflict here. But there has been a framework for negotiation in relation to this. In the first place, when the framework agreed by the negotiators was rejected, a conciliation bill was drawn up, which was also accepted by the House. And then you could ask whether we should have intervened immediately in connection with it, but then I know that there had been an outcry. The instrument of conflict, that is to say being able to strike, is an attempt to see whether some negotiations can be started. We have been sitting a little on our hands saying that we hope and believe that the social partners themselves can solve this problem, but at some point it has to be said that it is hopeless. Then it may well be that in the bright light of hindsight one is wiser and will say that we could have said that from the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132033	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132034	But the nurses have made the choice to go on the streets again and again across the country to make it clear to the government that money has to be put on the table, and this time they had to go all the way, because this has been going on for decades, it has been going on since 1969, when the civil service reform was being carried out. There must be money on the table, otherwise we will not be able to make up for the high wages that have been on the table for so many years and that right now mean that we cannot attract nurses to our hospitals and that the midwives are disappearing from the maternity wards and that the educators cannot help to meet our minimum standards targets. That's very serious. Does the rapporteur recognise that it will cost money if we are to safeguard employees in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132119	I would say that I cannot reject it. Now we are setting up this pay structure committee, which is going to go through exactly the way in which wage formation has been done, both in a historical perspective, but also in relation to the regulatory mechanism in relation to the private sector, and that is where I think we will learn more precisely where the challenges stand. The next discussion will then be some kind of bid on what we are talking about financially. It's just to say that we'll take a position on that when this committee is done and makes its recommendations. And, as I have said, we will follow it closely, which means that somewhere else there is also an obligation to comply with what the committee brings in. But I just think it's too early to pre-discount what the result is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132201	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132204	Thank you for that, President. Sir. Henrik Møller said in his speech that the Social Democrats were not trying to beat anyone up. If anyone feels drummed, they're sitting up here in the gallery. They really feel like they're being trodden by the government. If the government had shown will, the government would have listened to what was said right from the start, namely that there were problems with the civil service reform and that there was something in the structure of the wage negotiations. It was not something that the regions and KL could have solved. It was something where the government had to intervene and look at how to solve those problems. I agree that direct wage negotiations are collective agreements, but the other is something where the government should have intervened, and if the government had intervened from the outset and had said that we are going to look at the civil service reform, remove it, and look at what is in the structure that prevents a normal wage formation in the collective agreements, then the government could today have stood as a victor and said: we have listened to the nurses. But the government has not in any way listened to the nurses. What they wanted the government to get to grips with has just been rolled over, and then you don't care about the nurses. That is what the result is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132321	I have to say that I think there is a high degree of rationalization in this. In other words, the result was initially, as there had been negotiations throughout the public sector, that all the negotiators had agreed to the result. So that does not indicate that, compared to that part of it, we should have created a different framework for the negotiations that were then. It's so overruled by one professional group. Then you go in as it is in this system, and you get a conciliation person to go in to look at this and say that you listen to what the demands of both parties are, and then, by the way, you make a sketch for a settlement about this. The draft was subsequently approved by the negotiating parties. I understand that it will then be overruled by the nurses, and they say: that is not good enough. But it's a post-rationalization. That is to say, when an agreement has been reached by the negotiator, it is somewhere because you believe that the agreement that is is is accepted. Now, of course, we also recognise the challenge and the fact that there has been a strike which has highlighted some of the problems that exist by actually setting up this pay structure committee and in which we have also said that we will follow this very closely, even when there is a result in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132438	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132439	Well, that's very good, but the pay structure committee isn't going to remove the civil servant reform. It is the government's responsibility to remove the 1969 civil service reform that has caused problems. After all, it is not the pay structure committee that is going to look at it. They look at how the structure is and how the wage structure has been. After all, you are not looking at whether or not we should abolish the civil service reform. It is the responsibility of the government alone to address those problems. There are many issues raised by the nurses, which are not really something that lies in the collective bargaining game, but which influence it, and the government could have tackled that, but it has been said that no, you cannot; you just let the nurses run the box empty, and then you make an intervention.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132520	No, I mean, what I think I have become aware of when we talk about civil service reform from 1969 is that it has no legal effect now. So it is such a rather strange discussion, because if the 1969 civil servant reform does not have any legal effect, it does not work, and then it can be said that we do not have to abolish it, because it is more or less not in operation. What we are working on in connection with a pay structure committee is looking at structures which are a reminiscent of the 1969 civil service reform. That's kind of what this pay structure committee is supposed to be looking at, so I kind of think we're gonna get to grips with that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132556	There are a large number of Members who would like to speak on short points. That is why I am very strict on speaking time, so every time I get up, speaking time has gone so far. That was not said in view of the next speaker, who naturally keeps to the speaking time. This is Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132613	The President knows that I always keep to the speaking time. We have just been through a huge health crisis, which is not actually over. The rapporteur himself mentions the backlog. When the corona crisis roared out there, we clapped by the nurses, rightly, because they took extra guards, they ran twice as fast as they used to, and there is a high pace ahead. Can the rapporteur not see that it is a little ironic that, when it comes to the right reward, it is not there? Can the rapporteur not see that it is very bad that one day, when we really really need them, we are standing and applauding, while the Social Democrats saw the next day, when it comes to seriously and we are sitting at the negotiating table, are retiring? Can't you see that's a little weird?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132704	When it is mentioned that the Social Democratic Party withdraws when we sit at the negotiating table, I simply think I have to repeat what I have said before, and that is that, in the context of these collective bargaining in the whole public sector, an agreement was reached which both parties' negotiating bodies accepted. Then there was a group that said no. They then made a settlement sketch, which they then also agreed to. And there I do not see how we as a party have a share in exactly that part of what has been. What we are now saying here is that it is in itself also a question of the whole of the Danish model and some of the challenges that are also here that when we talk about equal pay discussion, it is not just a question of nurses; then it can be both a gender issue, and it can also be a question of what kind of public jobs we have here. And that's what the pay structure committee has to look into. So it's not just a question of the nurses' conditions, but it's about general looking at the wage formation within this and about looking at the possible unequal pay that exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132809	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132810	Last time I checked, it was a Social Democrat sitting at the table at the Ministry of Finance. It is a Social Democrat who sits on the treasury in the Ministry of Finance. What both parties have pointed out in these negotiations is that there is not enough money, and that is precisely why we in the Enhedslist have tabled an amendment asking the government to call for negotiations with a bag of money, and then we have to negotiate where that money should come from. But I just want to stress that the last time I checked, it was a socialist who sat at the end of the table. So does this mean that the Social Democrats will vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's amendments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132851	I don't think Enhedslisten should expect one or count on that. In other words, what we can say is that this is ultimately an issue which the Enhedslisten must raise in connection with the Finance Act, because that is the way in which these funds should be found, if necessary, when we talk about this. But our starting point is that we have now set up this pay structure committee, and then we are obviously awaiting work on this. As I have said, we will follow it closely, which means that there will be some recommendations. That is where it gets interesting, we think, to discuss what kind of framework we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132923	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826132926	For a very long time now we have heard the government and representatives of the Social Democratic Party say that the Danish model is respected. When I hear the rapporteur, it is almost as if the democracy of the members of the trade unions is such a slightly disturbing element; it is not really part of the Danish model. I think that is perhaps a rather unfortunate statement. Of course, when members of a federation vote 'no', it is part of the Danish model, and then a conflict starts. But I want to hear: when you have chosen no longer to respect the Danish model, and that is what you do with the intervention, why do you choose to act politically with the bourgeois to draw the mediation proposal that the conciliation officer has made and to which the nurses have said no, down over the heads of the nurses instead of using the political majority that is with the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Danish People's Party in order to sit down and provide funds that could clarify that what we are going to do with a pay committee is actually to ensure that we get equal pay for the major women's professions in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133039	I think some of this is an insult to the fact that we do not recognise the Danish model. In the Danish model it is precisely that when it is a hopeless conflict and when, moreover, we have some parties here who themselves are asking that you, as a government, must intervene in relation to this, I think it is an insult to say that we do not recognise the Danish model. And I do not think there is anything wrong with the fact that, as a member organisation, we do not want to recognise the result. Well, I'm just trying to describe that it's a little more complicated that it hasn't been an organization that has already said no to this. It is an organisation that has actually been at the negotiating table twice and has both said yes to this. So, you know, we'd have liked to see this solved ourselves. What is then said is that we should have intervened from the start. But it would have exactly been an intervention in relation to the Danish model. Now there has been a conciliation institution which, with both sides, has found a result, and we have said: we are exalting that to law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133149	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133150	In other words, what we are wondering about is what has actually happened in the last few days since the Social Democrats now believe the opposite of what they meant earlier, namely that we should not intervene, but that we should respect the Danish model. Is that how the government just waited? Well, the three points are finely designed. Is it the case that the government has just waited for the nurses and all the citizens who are affected to get tired so that they could intervene? If we knew that a political solution had to be found, why did we not choose to join with the rest of us in making a political solution that sent a signal to public sector employees that we want to promote equal pay so that we get rid of unequal pay in relation to the large female professions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133236	Now, although I mentioned the three criteria for intervention by government intervention, the question is whether there is any right time at all in this situation to do so. And it's clear that until that happens, the message will be that you want these parties to sort out this problem themselves. At some point, however, we have to recognise that the prospects for this are too bad. And I know that there was at least a meeting with the ministers yesterday, where both sides were present, and that it was at least one of the main reasons why they said: well now we have to do this, which is also within the framework of the Danish model; that we can go in and make an intervention, as we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133320	Killed. The next brief remark is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133325	Thank you for the floor. It's a sad day today. An hour ago, on TV 2 News, an experienced nurse was able to tell that in 1995 she was in charge of organising demonstrations for equal pay. Today we write 2021. Now she is standing there again, but the situation is much worse, and I think that the nurse in question is sitting up in the gallery. I simply have to ask the rapporteur: Hor a long time this experienced nurse will have to wait for a decent and equal pay. I simply have to ask: the experienced nurse has been in the profession for 30 years, and how long will she have to wait to get a proper salary? The second question I would like to ask is: if the government recognises that nurses are a completely essential part of our welfare community, how can the government agree to an agreement that will make by nurses disappearing from the job?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133438	So, what lies in this agreement that goes beyond the first result that was contractual and that was, of course, part of the settlement of the reconciliation institution was exactly what the main organization of the trade union was involved with: precisely to have this pay structure committee set up to go in and find out about it all the way through, also in relation to a historical perspective. Well, I think it's hard for us, because it's subjective what a decent salary is, that is to say, to define a decent salary in relation to this. What is beyond doubt is that there is a challenge which has been addressed to such an extent, both through this conflict, but also in general terms. And that is the fact that the reminiscence of the previous reform has led to a distortion of wage formation. And that's what the pay structure committee has to look at and make some recommendations on, in terms of how we can fix this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133542	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133544	Well, I just have to repeat my question. 30 years in the trade, and we have been toiled and dragged for when we have the worst: How long shall she wait for a worthy reward? Some time ago, when we were down here discussing the citizens' proposal for the civil service reform, Mr. Morten Bødskov, at least a million times, that you would not interfere with the Danish model. That's what you do today. Then I just cannot understand why in a social democratic government, backed by red support parties, you do not find the money that makes the nurses feel appreciated and can provide the service and welfare they do to all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133626	I do not necessarily think that there is anything new in it, and that is probably not the case in my answer either. I refer to the pay structure committee, which is part of the outcome of the conciliation institution on this and which will help to clarify 100%, and we will follow it closely and say that there will be some recommendations. And we'll have to watch them when they get here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133648	The next brief remark is to Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133652	In his opening speech, the rapporteur said that he could understand that there was frustration among nurses, and it had to be linked to the busyness of hospitals and home nursing, that is to say the speed of the day. I have experienced it myself, perhaps the rapporteur himself has experienced it. But does the rapporteur really believe that the frustration is only about working conditions, about hard guards, about busyness, about the feeling of not being able to do what one's profession requires, or is it also about unequal pay? Is the frustration for the rapporteur to see only about working conditions, or is it actually about what we are debating today, namely equal pay and the experience of getting a decent salary for his work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133737	I really think I said in my opening speech that it was not just about pay. But when I say that it is not just about wages, it is of course also about wages. So I understand that this is the overall framework for completing my job. And there it is just that I say that when we have talked about municipal and regional agreements, among other things. have been in and make some of the best deals in the last 10 years about this, I think SF has been involved in that as well. It has, of course, been an attempt to raise both standards, but also to create a better framework in order to actually create better jobs. So I actually don't think it's because we've been sitting on our hands and doing nothing. But you can just say this has happened under a framework where you've negotiated it, and now we're gonna set up this pay structure committee that's gonna have to look at it and tell us what it's gonna take to try and get some of this unequal pay done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133830	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133831	The rapporteur says about the structure of wages that the Social Democratic Party will follow the work closely, it must look at unequal wages. But what is really the government's obligation to follow up on the recommendations, to actually slam some money on the table so that we can solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133849	Well, that's where I say that I think it's to pre-discount and make a pre-conclusion about exactly how much it is we're talking about compared to it. That is why I think it is far too early to start talking about concrete figures in this context. We simply need to see what the result is in relation to this. But I think it is clear that we are going to follow up on this. That is to say, if the recommendations are to move economically, it will be difficult to completely ignore them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133920	The next brief remark is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826133924	Thank you. I took the floor when the rapporteur mentioned the fact that the reform of civil servants no longer has legal effect. I do not really think most people care about that, because it is the consequences of the historic reform of civil servants that we are experiencing today, which makes it absolutely impossible to rectify this among the social partners. And one of the social partners is the regions which cannot levy taxes or have their own independent economy, because they have to negotiate the economy with the finance minister. And if, as many others have said, it is a political achievement from 1969, as we see today, it can only be resolved politically. That is why we are appealing to find a solution, because whether you take up the proposal that Enhedslisten has put forward or that the SF has put forward for funding, we have put forward proposals for funding to resolve this. We hear one time that we do not want to interfere with the social partners and then we do not want to discuss funding, and now we are told that we must bring it up in the financial law negotiations. I would very much like to know the latter, because then we will at least put it on our list of finance bills.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134036	What I am trying to say is that the reform of the civil service will be abolished. Then I say that the reform of the civil service has no legal effect, but it is so completely irrelevant. It's just to say that it doesn't actually work. But this is going to be a strange discussion, because what we are exactly doing is setting up a pay structure committee, and that is what I am saying is the challenge, namely the structures of the reform that we should have looked at as such. That's kind of what's in a pay structure committee about this. So I actually think we are talking about the challenge. But what we do not do then is that we do not predestinate ourselves with the conclusion that comes or offer what exactly we have to do, because it is a matter of waiting for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134120	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134122	But just as nurses don't give honey hearts to thank for the corona effort, they don't want nice words or empty promises. What they and we want is that money comes with it. You can keep inventing new words, whether it is called a pay committee or a pay structure committee, or whatever it is, but if there is nothing firm that goes with it, it is just words, and that is why we want a firm guarantee that the money needed to correct this intervention would be provided. It may not be possible to put a penny on it right now, but we can find a solution together with the political majority that already exists today. We exist and we would like to vote in favour of providing that funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134212	It's noted. I repeat: we will not adopt any solutions until we have obtained the results of the pay structure committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134225	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134229	Thank you. I think there is a very special contradiction in what the Socialist rapporteur says. On the one hand, it is recognised that this is a structural problem, but on the other hand, it should not be given a penny to solve it, despite the fact that it is a structural problem. This means, of course, putting the strikers in a situation where they have to ask colleagues in other professional groups to give them the money, and that is unworthy of the fact that it is a structural problem. That is why I think that the Social Democrats have not lacked any calls to accept a majority that can provide some money to solve this structural problem, and I would really like to see this contrast in the socialist world view unveiled. Where's the mistake? What's going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134324	In other words, I am almost back to the starting point of saying that there were some general collective bargaining in the public sector to which all those who negotiated agreed. So we have, of course, accepted the framework that was first laid out. Subsequently, a conciliation text was prepared which tried to accommodate some of the wishes that were there. Then I understand that there is a professional group here that has not accepted it. Well, let's get that payroll committee set up. It is the case that the parties must be part of it and must help to describe what this commission should look like. Those who are behind this legislative action are, in fact, involved, but the parties will have an influence on how the terms of reference of the committee will look.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134412	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134414	Well now I liked to get a very precise description of what the difference is between the situation that was in 2008, when a Commission was set up and when the structural problems were recognised, and then the situation that is now. What I see as a difference is that there is an increasing flight from the whole area, and that is, of course, because wages and working conditions are not in order. There are currently 4,700 unemployed; there are open posts which have not been filled in regions and municipalities; one in ten nurses reply that they are not applicants for those posts and there is a 8% drop in nursing training. This year. Does it have anything to do with the fact that the government is helping to push for that situation to develop?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134456	I think, as I have said before, that, compared with the previous agreements we have made, both with municipalities and regions, and with the previous constraints on automatic 2-percent savings, etc., we have been able to make some of the best agreements in the last 10 years in terms of providing a better economy for both regions and municipalities in relation to the tasks they have to perform. And it is, of course, a question of what framework we are giving to the employees who are, and there are basically challenges in our entire welfare area, both in terms of recruitment for the training, but also in terms of labour. But I do not think it is just a matter of pay, I think it is many elements that are crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134545	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134548	Thank you. But then it will also be a purely confession case: the framework that we give Henrik Møller says, and that is the problem here. It is that it is we who provide the framework, and then we put the responsibility behind us, and then it is Mr. Kühnau, who else has to face the problem. It's a system malfunction. I think SF and Enhedslisten are fixing the bakery for blacksmith by standing and shooting at the government. I just looked through SF's financial bill. I can't find a single crown for the nurses in the budget bill for 2021. So the thing about shooting at the government is a free round. It's about all of us. It is about all of us: that we are not willing to go in to make the change in the financing structure that can ensure a real negotiation, and we come across it over and over again, and that is why I would like to do so without being polemical, Mr President. Henrik Møller, ask whether there is any reflection on our structure that this is now the second time that Mrs Mette Frederiksen has been appointed Minister for Employment and now, as Prime Minister, has to intervene in a conflict in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134700	It is a bit of a discussion in relation to what can be called the Danish model, where we have both a public and a private labour market, where there can well be some contradictions in the public field compared to the tools that are built up. But I think it is fair that we should now find a solution to the conflict that is here, and when it is, as always, put into effect, I think that when you have conflicts that you have here, it is an opportunity to discuss it and say: are there any of the instruments that need to be looked at in relation to it? We're open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134743	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134745	But that is not a solution, because the solution that is coming now is the one the nurses have voted against twice. So this is not a solution, but I recognise that the system is such, and it is, of course, the prerogative of the government to intervene, and we cannot just go out with something that goes beyond the mediation proposal, because everyone else can then speculate that everything has to land in here. So I understand the whole system. But what I am calling for reflection on is, in fact, the financial system, and that is where we in the KD take the view that the regions should have the right of taxation back as they once did, because they then have a real opportunity to negotiate with the parties with which they have to negotiate. How does the government feel about this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134827	I would like to say as a starting point that, when we had the whole discussion, it was not the Social Democrats' view that the regions should not have tax printing, but that is not, as I am at least familiar with, something that is right on the drawing board, but I recognise the challenges that are in the way that the public sector is built up in relation to the Danish model. That is where I say that, when we get to the other side of this, we want to promise that we will have a look at it, and that could be funding. However, I do not think that it will be tax printing for the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134905	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134909	Thank you. I stand here and get a little curious, because it sounds like SF and Enhedslisten are in opposition to the government, but they are supporting parties to the government, and they are the ones who ensure that the government can sit there. You have known that these collective bargaining would come now, which is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Enhedslisten and the SF in the two financial laws that have been in place put it as a requirement and a must requirement that there should be a bag of money that could then be brought into these negotiations. After all, two financial laws have been negotiated, so we have had ample opportunity to say that this money must be put in. Did Enhedslisten and SF do it, that is, put it as a requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826134953	I am neither in the Finance Committee nor part of the whole negotiating group that is around the Finance Act, so I shall not be able to comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135005	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135006	No, but that is absolutely central, because you stand and say that there must be another bag of money. You have had ample opportunity, if that is the way you want to run it, to bring this money into the system and to say that it is a requirement and that otherwise there was nothing else called a social democratic government. Now you can turn it into another Finance Act, and it's going to be very exciting to see whether you're dealing with it as a demand and an ultimate demand for this government, so that they have to find this bag of money, because otherwise you're pulling the blanket away, or if you choose to prioritize some very different things again. And then you sold this to the nurses as if it were something you really cared about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135042	I would say that I do not really sense that this is a question for me, so I will not go into a deeper answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135050	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135054	I can confirm that this has been a requirement in the context of the financial law negotiations. It is quite important in this discussion that we all recognise that nurses are probably the ones who are on strike, but they are not the only ones who are fighting. This question is far, far deeper than in goose eyes... only the nurses. It is a question of underpayment, historical underpayment, of the women's dominated professions in the public sector. And I would just like the Socialists to say, for once, that yes, it is a political responsibility to put an end to the unfair structures left behind by the civil service reform. Because when we started by calling the Minister for Gender Equality, as he is, in consultation, he looked at the Enhedslisten and said: "This is not something we should solve in here; it must go over in the collective bargaining process. Then the nurses striked, and now you stand and say, "Well, then we'd better do some legal action." Will the Socialists accept the responsibility which comes with the civil servants' reform? Yes, it must be resolved politically. Can I have the rapporteur say that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135206	In relation to part of the solution that we are making today, when we take the conciliation sketch and make it law, I would say that there is, of course, in it the creation of a pay structure committee, where we actually have to do some analyses of exactly that with the structures that are being described. And it can be said that there will of course be some recommendations when you are done here. That is what I have said: we will follow, that is, the result that will be there. There you can say that if you have to use Pernille Skipper's own assessment of this here, the recommendations will certainly be that there is a challenge that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135242	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135243	If I ask the rapporteur what time it is, I think the rapporteur will say: analysis in the structure of wages committee. Well, I asked who was responsible for solving the challenges of the leftovers created by the civil service reform. That's all I asked. What is absolutely essential for us to get out of this, not only in relation to nurses, but also in relation to midwives who do not want to work in the public sector, in relation to the thousands of sosu who do not apply for training but who we are going to miss, and in relation to the social workers and all the others, is that some money should be found. Some money needs to be found if the challenges of their pay shortfall are to be solved. Will the Social Democrats find the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135330	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135332	It's gonna be the same boring answer as expected, which is about this pay structure committee somehow coming up with some recommendations. There I find it difficult to pre-discount what these recommendations will be, because the recommendations may well be that, in relation to the contractual system you have, you have to sort it out. It may be that we need to get involved in this somehow. I am not going to reject that, but I cannot give the answer until I have the recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135401	The next brief remark is from Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135404	Thank you. The rapporteur cannot give the answer until the rapporteur has the recommendations. Then we'll have to say, okay, okay, okay, we'll have to re-examine this. But the fact is that wage differences in Denmark between traditional male and traditional female occupations and the pay hierarchy have been examined over and over again. There are investigations, commissions, research papers you name it • about this. Now we need a pay structure committee. Does the rapporteur think that there should be some obligations when the work of this committee is over? It is not in the draft law as it is now, and we have proposed it in the SF. But will you undertake to do something when the recommendations of this committee come or will it be another study that does not result in anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135454	I believe that what is important to emphasise is that it will be the parties who will be involved in making the mandate for this very study. It will then be one of the tasks to be precise in relation to the mandate there is. And there's gonna be those who are part of the deal here, too. So I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135518	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135519	It is good to hear if you want to commit yourself to dealing with the problem we know what is, and the conclusion will probably be for this pay structure committee as well. One of the things I fear, too, is that once again it is said that it is the parties that have to resolve it. In other words, when the answer from the pay structure committee comes you will say: there will be an agreement debate again in a moment, and the parties will have to resolve that because we have the Danish model. Can the rapporteur not shed some light on whether we actually get some money from the government when there is a clear answer, namely that there is a problem with a huge pay gap between men and women in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135554	After all, I am referring to what is a little mantra, namely that we will follow up on what comes as a result of this. But we've tried several times like being beaten some concrete answer to some amount as there is, and you don't get that today. We have to wait and see what comes as a result of this pay structure committee before we can be more precise about what it is that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135622	The next brief remark is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135626	Thank you. In fact, it is also an attempt to follow up the answer given to my colleague, Jacob Mark, to some questioners since then, because I think I actually heard the rapporteur say that when the others in the equal pay alliance have voted in favour of their agreements, it is in fact an expression of the fact that they are perhaps very well satisfied. I do not know whether it was an invitation to the others in the equal pay alliance not to put the pen on paper, i.e. not to enter into agreements in the future if it is the case that they have to shout up the government. Was that an invitation? What can convince the government that a commission is not enough, but that we also have to send money if that is how we really have to solve the problem of equal pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135723	I think that we continue to revolve around the same thing, that we are going to be deprived of some sort of commitment on our part to set aside some particular amount of billions. That's not gonna happen from here today. I think it's such a bit of a funny discussion in relation to this deal with agreements and with the Danish model. We are interfering in some way, I think, politically very much in terms of being very specific about what it is. I think the pay structure committee has to show it. Well, this is one professional group, and because you say yes to an agreement, it is not the same as being one hundred percent satisfied with the result that is, but you have at least acknowledged that this is the level that we can be within.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135825	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135827	But that is what worries me: the rapporteur really concludes over and over again that when the others are dissatisfied, that must be good enough. But the others have just stood there time and time again, Tuesday after Tuesday, with one shout after another, and yet no one is listening to a problem that needs to be represented. Are they all going to strike?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135851	But that is the whole point of departure, because here there is a specific group which has been involved in some negotiations and which has a wish. That's kind of what we're dealing with here. Then it is mentioned, and perhaps that is what I sometimes think can make it a little more complicated, that it is not just a matter of this one subject group, but it does so in relation to the intervention we make when we talk about the part of the agreement. We are then talking about the pay structure committee, the issue that is raised here, namely that there are some basic mechanisms in the wage structure that may seem unbalanced. And that's why we set up this committee. It's to talk about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135932	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826135936	Thank you. I think we should make it clear straight away that it is the government that intervenes in the Danish model by whitewashing a mediation sketch and exalting it into law. I believe that what Enhedslisten and also SF and Dansk Folkeparti are proposing is to put some money on the table, which the parties will then be able to negotiate in respect of the Danish model. It's just to make it clear. But I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur continues to say that we must have that pay structure committee to clarify it here, but we have a pay gap and have had it since 1969 with the civil servant reform, and this applies to the whole low-wage area of welfare workers. We know that we are faced with huge recruitment and retention problems for the whole area, both nurses, educators and midwives, teachers and sosus, and we have seen that since 1973, I believe, when nurses were given the right to strike, they have been out on five strikes and there have been sosus who have been on strike and there have been educators who have been on strike, there have been teachers who have been on strike on exactly the same subject, so what exactly is the rapporteur's idea of a pay structure committee supposed to come up with, which is not that we have an obligation to solve the problem of a wage deficit in relation to the low-wage area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140052	Once again, we are pre-discounting what needs to be done, because a conclusion is already being drawn on the work of the Committee on Wages and salaries. This is where I say that first a mandate needs to be made, which the parties must help to describe, and then the pay structure committee must work, and then let us take the discussion when the result comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140112	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140114	But it is at the same time that we are faced with massive recruitment and retention problems in some areas where we have just had a corona crisis that has shown that we have an extreme need for this staff who perform vital functions. Is it the view of the Social Democrats that we should wait until one of those solutions comes? I am not saying that I know everything about the pay structure committee, but I know that there is a pay gap, I know it has been there for many years, and I know that we have a low-wage and equal pay problem, so why not just acknowledge it and then say: let us start there? I doubt that there will be a pay structure committee which says that it would be a really bad idea to pay the low-paid more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140150	I would like to repeat once again that, in the last ten years, we have not made any better agreements with the municipalities and regions in the past in relation to providing a framework for completing, one might say, among other things. health tasks and precisely ensure that in relation to employment, work environment, etc. can be given some better conditions for it. I recognise that there is something in the area of pay, but we will have to look at that when that committee arrives, that is what it is that comes from recommendations if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140217	Thank you, therefore, to the Socialist rapporteur, there are now no more brief comments to the rapporteur, and thank you for just preparing the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140239	Thank you. Yesterday, the Government informed the parties of the Folketing that the possibilities of finding a negotiated solution between the parties to the agreement had been exhausted, and on this basis the Government would seek the support of the Folketing for a legislative action which would remove the mediation sketch from 18 May 2021 to law. We in the Left take note of this and, as far as we are aware, both sides have also indicated that they want the government to intervene, as there is no prospect of a negotiated solution. The Left notes that this is a very long-standing conflict and that the conflict is thus the longest in recent times. The current conflict has major consequences for both patients and citizens who need health care, care and care, both in our hospitals and in our municipalities. Tens of thousands of people have been cancelled and postponed their treatment. The Left supports and has great respect for the Danish labour market model. It has demonstrated its strength for many years, and we would very much have liked it to have been the result of this time too, in relation to the fact that the parties had found solutions. But when the government finds that the prospect of a negotiated solution is not possible and wants to intervene by lifting the conciliation sketch into law, the Left will back this up and bring this conflict to an end. This means that patients and citizens affected by the long-term conflict can again receive treatment. The mediation proposal of 18 May 2021, which was also recommended by the negotiating committee of the Parties, proposes the establishment of a remuneration structure committee, and the Committee shall make recommendations to analyse the wage structure in the public sector. In the Left, we are pleased that the parties agreed to propose a remuneration structure committee; the Left supports the setting up of a pay structure committee and we look forward to discussing a commission for the work of the Committee on the recommendation of the social partners. I am very sorry that we are in this situation. I agree with the previous rapporteur that there is no winner here in this conflict. However, as I said, a negotiated solution is hopeless and, on that basis, I should like to say that the Left supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140551	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140557	It is quite clear to me that, over time, the Left has used the expression that it must be worthwhile to work. It is such a Left Parole as you know and if you look right now at the hospitals, among nurses and among midwives, you can actually see that there are many people who feel that it is not worthwhile to work. This is partly because working conditions have become harder and harder in the day-care institutions and in many other places too, partly because wages are so low that they go to temporary employment agencies, where they then get more flexibility to choose the guards themselves and get a higher salary. Then the regions will have to pay more to the temporary employment agencies, and then they will have to cut down on hospitals, and then they will get into a vicious spiral. Does the rapporteur agree that it is a huge problem that we are seeing right now that more nurses and more midwives become temporary workers, because otherwise it simply cannot pay for them to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140655	I certainly think it is a problem that in many parts of the public sector there are challenges with the working environment, and when we in the Left say that it should be worthwhile to work, it is, of course, a question of ensuring that people want to move from passive support to taking a job, and we also say that those who are at work should each have the idea that they are getting something home. Then I fully understand that the reality out there is that there are nurses who choose to work both in the public and in the private sector, and I agree that in some places the salary in the temporary employment agencies is higher than what can be achieved in the public sector. But it's a choice each nurse makes. But once again, it is about ensuring that nurses and other professional groups in the public labour market want to work, and we want to work for that in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140755	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140757	It is, of course, some form of voluntary coercion, because the nurses and midwives I am talking to do not necessarily want to go to temporary employment agencies. They wanted to have a permanent appointment in the hospitals, but they can't make it stick together. There is a bad working environment in many places, and at the same time they get a significantly lower salary in many places than if they go to this temporary agency, and then it is not worth working, and then we cannot do the strong public health care that the Left also wants. So what is the Left's bid to ensure that in the future we will have more midwives and more nurses and the other public sector employees, instead of becoming such a Vikardanmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140836	We are very concerned about continuing to develop the Danish healthcare system. We have been doing this for all the years we have been part of the government, and that is to ensure patient rights, but also to ensure good conditions around the many professional groups who are in the hospital. This has happened over the years we had the power of government. At that time, more people were employed in the Danish healthcare system, and we spend billions more on the Danish health care system, and these are primarily payrolls. So more people have come to be employed out there. The rapporteur himself says that the working environment must be much better, and it is also about management, and it is about structuring everyday life, so that fewer nurses, for example. stress suffers and they no longer want to work in the public sector, but want to go to the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140918	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826140921	I would like to ask the rapporteur on the Left where his hands should come from. One in three nurses recruited in 2021 was in vain... one in three! There is a decline in nursing education, in fact, in all the major welfare programmes. We're gonna have more children and older people. We need hands in the hospitals, in the care of the elderly, in the maternity wards, where the Left God help me myself has put forward a proposal for more hands to come, but how are they to come if people are not paid fair wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141003	We fully agree with Enhedslisten that we have a huge challenge in obtaining labour. This is not just about the public sector, it is also about the private sector, and we share that view, and we are, in fact, also concerned about what we can do about it. It is about working conditions, it is about ensuring that the courses that are for young nurses who are new in the course go the best possible. I have also noted that the regions are also concerned about this and will do something about it. So all around we have to make it more attractive to work in the public sector, just as we have to make it attractive to work in the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141040	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141041	The rapporteur mentions the working environment, management, structure. Yes, there are problems, and I totally agree with that, but when the nurses are sitting right up here saying no to a pay question and have said clearly to all of us that it is also a question of getting a fair salary for a very good job for our society, is it not a bit nasty that the rapporteur simply does not want to recognise it, or did I just ignore the fact that the rapporteur actually agrees that there is also a pay problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141114	It is certainly also about wages, no doubt about that. That is also why we support the fact that we are now setting up a pay structure committee to look at how to ensure future wage formation throughout the public labour market, otherwise in balance with and in respect of what is happening in the private labour market. So we look forward to discussing the mandate, but we also look forward to the committee working quickly so that there is a result from the committee that can be included in the forthcoming discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141148	The next brief remark is to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141152	Thank you very much. I don't understand the Left at all. It is an opposition party that looks up for health, which has had a Prime Minister who has been Minister for Health, and we have made a great many good agreements together. The Left also made a mistake when agreeing in 2013 to go beyond the teachers' agreement, and one should have learned something from it. We were faced with a situation in which even the Left made a proposal on how to provide more teachers for the areas that were starved because of going in and making legislative action. Now you do exactly the same thing. The Left had every opportunity to join with the parties here who actually offered up to fight against the current government. But what does the Left do? They say, well, we're gonna make a committee, and it's gonna be done in 2023 or 2024 or so, and then we're gonna look at it. Does Left mean it's good enough for the nurses who have been working and dragging all over the corona epidemic?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141258	I have great, great respect for the many, many nurses and other public and private employees who have worn and dragged in our fight with and against corona. The rapporteur asks why the Left supports this bill. First of all, it is about the government now considering that the negotiations are hopeless, and then it is part of the Danish model that a government can put forward a bill to ensure that action is taken. I am also listening to the view of the parties that they cannot find any solutions. There are no concrete proposals from the nurses on what they want to achieve in the specific negotiations, and on that basis we will take a position on this bill and support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141350	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141351	Has the rapporteur of the Left been out talking to any of those nurses? Has the rapporteur talked to Grete Christensen to hear how we could help to do something, how we could get in and commit ourselves to something in this committee that is being set up to ensure that an agreement is reached? We asked for this yesterday when we met, but there was no majority in favour of it, and that is one of the reasons why we cannot vote in favour, because there is no commitment in that committee. Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141426	I have had a meeting with Grete Christensen, and we have also discussed committees. The proposal is, of course, a proposal from the FH's main organisation of the trade union movement, and I have deep respect for the social partners, and when here comes a proposal for a committee and a proposal for what it might look like, I am listening very much to it, and I look forward to discussing that in a future mandate with the parties supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141458	The next brief remark is to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141501	Thank you. It is a good thing that the rapporteur on the Left says that the rapporteur is a pity, but that regret cannot be used for a virtue in reality. I was at a P1 debate with one of the rapporteur's colleagues from the Left who said that the Left would not interfere in the collective bargaining and yet, today, we see how the Left poses a threat to the Danish model and forces the mediation sketch which the nurses have twice voted against, over their heads, in other words going against it and, even so, simply removing the possibility of free negotiation. It is then because no agreement could be reached, one has to understand. But what does the Left think it is necessary for this to happen: is it because the Left believes that the money should then have been taken from some groups with higher incomes, or is it because the rapporteur from the Left believes that police officers earn too much or that primary school teachers earn too much? Where's the money coming from? I would like to hear the Left reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141600	The questioner mentions that it is a threat to the Danish model that we are today discussing a legislative proposal for an intervention, but it is part of the Danish model that the possibility is there. It's part of the Danish model, and I'm gonna be a shame to hear that Enhedslisten is currently attacking the Danish model in relation to wage formation. That is what is happening at the moment, and I think that I think the Enhedslisten should perhaps consider whether it is wise in relation to the Danish model that we have built up for decades with the representatives of the labour market who have negotiated and negotiated and reached compromises and agreements and who have made Denmark where Denmark is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141655	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141657	That's a completely ignorant answer. I have to admit, I'm getting goose bumps. What pulls serious clues from the teacher's conflict. The fact that we are going in this way and want to tie these professional groups on our hands and remove their opportunity for free negotiation is, I believe, a threat to the democracy that is also in the Danish model. It would be easy to make an intervention, for example. said that there should be some money with the committee's work. There are a lot of things you could do, but the Left chooses not to want to do, and the Left chooses not to answer where the money should come from. Left, where's the money coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141740	We look forward to the work now to be done in the committee, we also look forward to discussing the mandate when it has been written with the involvement of the social partners, and then I look forward to seeing the results. But when you come to a conclusion in advance, I understand that then we shall have to set up some committee; then we shall just keep going as it is today. I wouldn't recommend that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141813	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141817	But I just think that the Left should say that we are voting against it. Because then you don't have to be part of that part and rule strategy that the government is running with. It would be much simpler. And then the support parties themselves must take responsibility, that is, they are standing there thundering against one and the other, but they are not willing to put the government chair at the door. So much for that! I'm thinking of sausage factory when I think of the way we've arranged our health care, sir. Hans Andersen, and we both share responsibility for that, we have been doing politics together for 20 years. Everyone here has a responsibility for that. When does that insight into the Left's parliamentary group get you to rethink some of the things that we have helped to do? We know today that there is far too far from the management battle and out into the hospital halls, into the wards; that is some of the problems • and which of course also includes the funding, of which the salary must be part, so that we can get the equal pay that nurses deserve, among other things. in that we are looking at the financing structures. When does that self-knowledge get to the left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826141931	We would like to share in the discussion with Mr. Jens Rohde and the Christian Democrats, how to create an even better healthcare system, and it's about better governance, it's also about rethinking. Twenty-five years ago there was a hospital in Hørsholm, which was changed and which gave completely free hands to rethink the way in which health care was run, and there were many exciting solutions from there, which have inspired the rest of the health services today. So we would very much like to be involved in discussing this with the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142007	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142008	It is all of us here who have to discuss it together, because once again we are in a situation where we have a conflict of agreements, and yes, it is the prerogative of the government to intervene, and normally this mediation proposal is exalted to law, because one can never speculate that something should enter the Folketing. That is the system, it is part of the Danish model, and you have to recognise it if it is the case that you respect the Danish model. However, we have not shown due diligence, and that is why, on top of this, we now need to start a serious discussion on the financing structures of our health care, because they are not working. And that's why I want to know if Mr. Hans Andersen shares my analysis, namely that it was a mistake for us at that time to remove the tax credit from the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142056	The short answer is that we do not believe that we should reinstate the right of taxation for the regions, and that would then be a solution to wage formation and pay structures in the public sector. I didn't have time to answer Mr. Jens Rohde's first question about what is my opinion that SF and Enhedslisten do not want to support the legislative action, but I can just say that I am amazed that SF does not want to support this legislative action and that is the bill that the government has put forward. I'm thinking there's been a little longer for the SF for government offices in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142143	The next brief remark is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique, UFG.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142146	Thank you for the floor. When the Free Greens proposed the repeal of the civil service reform, it was on the same day that there was a citizens' proposal for the civil service reform. Then the main argument of the Left was, what can be said, that we cannot support the proposal because it will be a political intervention. This is not part of the Danish model. Now the rapporteur says something else, so I am confused, I have to say. What does the Left really mean? It is true that today we are no longer hiring officials, but can the rapporteur of the Left confirm that our collective bargaining system is based on the hierarchy formed by the reform of civil servants? Can the rapporteur confirm that the hierarchy of official reform is what our collective bargaining system is based on today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142249	A multitude of agreements have been concluded since 1969. We have and we have made compromises out there. So abolishing the 1969 civil service reform will, in practice, have no effect on wage levels. That's reality. The reality is that all parties have been negotiating since then. I have great respect for that. I also said this in May when we had the same debate: I have great respect for that. I and the Left support the proposal that we now set up a pay structure committee to analyse the public sector, including wage formation, but also other factors such as the working environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142343	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142345	However, we do not need to do that in relation to the civil service reform, because the Institute for Human Rights conducted a study, mapped it out in November 2020 and confirmed that our collective bargaining system is based on the hierarchy of civil service reform. That is why we in the Free Greens say that it is not contrary to the Danish model that we, as politicians and Parliament, find that bag of money so that we can balance out the fundamental inequality caused by the civil service reform hierarchy and which is responsible for the fact that, year after year in the women's domination professions, we simply cannot get the decent pay that we are entitled to receive. So will the Left because we are putting forward the proposal on the civil service reform again support it so that we can put an end to the fundamental inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142438	The Left supports the fact that we are now setting up a pay structure committee to look at this carefully. We are also looking forward to discussing a commission for this work. This must be the right way forward to ensure both that we have a wage formation in the public sector, which we all agree is fair and that we have a balance in relation to the private labour market, because the labour market in Denmark is therefore linked. One cannot look in isolation at the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142520	The next brief remark is from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142525	Thank you. It was actually something else I wanted to ask, but I cannot help dwelling on it, as Mr. Hans Andersen said that the reform of the civil service is of no consequence, that it does not affect wage formation. Why, then, will the Left not help to simply remove it, since we are virtually no longer hiring civil servants? You might as well have that freak removed. It's kind of strangely double ambiguous. Could Mr. Hans Andersen does not make it quite clear what the 1969 civil service reform means today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142611	Our view is that in practice, the civil servants' reform has no effect on wage formation in the public sector in practice. Several agreements have been concluded since 1969. The parties have pulled, taken, given, made compromises, accepted the agreements made. So it would not change wage formation right now if the reform of the civil service were to be abolished. That's reality. It is badly heard, I agree, but in reality it would not mean any change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142655	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142658	But it helps to form the hierarchy that makes women's occupations lower paid. This has been pointed out several times. There are other things that cause it, too, but this is one of the most important things. When it was made in 1969, it was said that it had to be reviewed every four years. It has been re-evaluated once in the early 1970s. That's all that's happened. Then it's just been allowed to mind its own business. It had to be re-evaluated so that it followed developments in the labour market, and that has not happened. With the Left standing to be right in these matters, it must also be left to say: when it is not re-evaluated, it is unnecessary, and then it must be removed. Then we don't need it anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142745	That is also why we need a pay structure committee to look at the whole area. That is why we need to get this work under way so that we can move forward in the course of the whole debate we have had here, but indeed everywhere else, on wage formation in the public sector. So we would recommend that we quickly start looking at the mandate, discuss it and get started setting up the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142817	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142830	I would like to say that I understood from the rapporteur that he had learned that there was no possible negotiated solution. And my surprise is the surprise of the rapporteur that there is no possible negotiated solution when we talk about a zero-sum game. Would the rapporteur acknowledge that if some funds had been provided from outside, that is to say, from outside? In the overall amount of the negotiations, would there have been any possibility of a negotiated solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142857	I note that for several weeks now there have been no concrete proposals to negotiate between the parties and that each of the parties has approached the government and said: the negotiations are hopeless; we need help. I fully agree that Enhedslisten believes that if we simply set aside, I do not remember whether it is 5 or 6 billion. kr., The Enhedslisten is currently proposing that we solve any problem with regard to public contracts. That is not the way to do it, because it is to intervene in the Danish model, and I understand that is the Enhedslisten's answer, but it is not the Left's answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142954	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826142955	However, would the rapporteur not acknowledge that it is also an intervention when no money is allocated to a debate? The fact is that, in the final analysis, it is the Minister for Finance who sits at the end of the table and that is to say, there are no free negotiations between the parties. And it is as great an intervention not to set aside money as it is to set aside money. It has to be recognised that the situation is different in the public domain. The rapporteur says: Well now the pay structure committee is a solution. Then I would say: yes, it could be if you started yesterday, but you didn't. They began, among other things. with a commission in 2008. What is new since then?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143037	Compared to the payroll commission of 2008, I don't know if it was finished in 2010 I'll say: yes, that's right. That, it might be said, is the background to a proposal for a pay structure committee. That is part of the work that must be included in it. But that is quite right when the rapporteur asks: what has this led to? And there we all have a responsibility... it's my own opinion... to make sure that this doesn't end in the same way as with the payroll commission. We in the Left would like to enter into constructive discussions on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143119	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143120	Thank you. I think there is something rather funny about the fact that it should be the Enhedslisten who votes against the intervention that interferes when Mr. Hans Andersen himself intends to vote in favour of the procedure, and that obviously is not interfering. That's a little funny. But what I would like to ask the rapporteur is that there are, of course, some of Mr Beazley's amendments. Hans Andersen's colleagues who believe that we politicians are paid too little and that our salary needs to be higher in order to attract the best. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: does this also apply to nurses? So, does the salary also have to be a little higher for the nurses, so that we can attract both the best but also enough to the profession?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143212	I fully agree that pay also plays a role in how attractive a profession is, but it is also about working conditions, it is about good colleagues, it is about good management, it is about being appreciated and it is about talking up the nursing profession. So it's all about a lot of things, but certainly pay. I certainly recognize that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143236	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143238	We haven't done anything else in the last two years but to talk up the nursing profession, and it's like it's time for the rest to come. Now we need to improve the working environment, we need to improve pay, we need to improve management, but it costs more than just words. So if the Left agrees that it is a better working environment, that it is more in salary that needs to be paid, why would it not be possible to contribute to the allocation of the money it costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143310	Yes, but that is why we are saying that we are supporting a pay structure committee to look at the public sector, among other things. the formation of wages. We think that is the way we can move forward. For it is not only in nursing, wages play a role, wages play a role in all subjects, including private sectors. But we do not think that we can look at nurses in isolation alone, we have to look at everyone, including all professions in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143348	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143351	In order to make this clear, does the rapporteur of the Left believe that there is unequal pay in the public sector, in other words that women's domination is unequal paid in relation to the male-dominated professions in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143406	I recognise that there is an equal pay problem, certainly, and we have a joint responsibility to discuss what we are doing about it. Much of this is sector-specific, but there is certainly a problem, and we must discuss this, and that is also why the pay structure committee must look at wage formation in the public sector. So we acknowledge that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143446	Thank you. Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143448	The rapporteur has also said that the rapporteur will listen to the recommendations of the pay structure committee. But listening is not enough, because action is needed here to resolve the problem of equal pay, which I understand the Left also recognises is there. So can the rapporteur guarantee that once the pay structure committee is completed, the Left is also ready to find the money needed to make up for this unequal pay? Can the Left guarantee that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143516	We must now be very careful with guarantees in politics. I am therefore looking forward to the completion of the work of the Committee on Labour Structures, and we would very much like to enter into discussions with the social partners, who are, of course, primarily beneficiaries of such work. But we would like to discuss that, and that will ultimately be a priority. But I just have to understand that SF doesn't have a ceiling here. SF and Enhedslisten have applied the next three years of finance laws to the promises they have made here today, which is why we see this in a context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143610	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143612	At least in the case of the Enhedslisten, we fully recognise that some money needs to be found. That is, of course, the whole essence of this discussion here. Sir. Hans Andersen stands and acts as if this is a matter of whether the intervention of the right wing with the government is now taking place or just allowing the strike to continue. Nobody in here thinks so. It is, of course, a question of what kind of intervention, and that is why the Left must also be politically responsible for the intervention that one chooses to take. And you choose to make a legislative act which removes a conciliation bill from the law, which is more than 66 per cent. In addition, the nurses have said no, and they do not solve the fundamental problem that exists in all the other women's professions, namely that they are lagging behind and have too little in relation to their level of education and responsibility. That is why I must ask the Left why the Left, together with the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Danish People's Party, did not insist that what was to be found, the solution to be made, the political responsibility to be taken, should contain some money that actually did something about the equal pay problem which the Left right on the floor of Mr. Hans Andersen's mouth has acknowledged there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143726	Well, I recognise that there is an equal pay problem, but I also say that I think we should have the pay structure committee look into it and I look forward to the work that needs to be done. Because we in the Left do not want to make the conclusion today about which subjects, private or public, should receive a particular salary, which I understand Enhedslisten would like to determine for the individual professional groups. There we have great respect for the fact that this is what is happening in the Danish labour market and in the Danish model. So we look forward to the recommendations and conclusions of the pay structure committee, and it is above all the social partners to whom they will make recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143826	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143828	In fact, I do not think it is too much to ask that Mr. Hans Andersen actually reads Enhedslisten's proposal before he gives his opinion on it in such an important debate as this one, because if he had done so, Mr. Hans Andersen has read that Enhedslisten neither for the nurses nor the sosu and all the others will fix the salary. We will set aside a pool of money which the parties can distribute with the aim of tackling the problem of equal pay. It's just to get it solved, and maybe I think so, sir. Hans Andersen could have bothered him before he spoke out on it. My question to the rapporteur is this: now that you keep hiding behind this pay structure committee, Hans Andersen promises that there will be in the terms of reference that the proposals made by the pay structure committee may cost something?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143911	Now I haven't seen a proposal for a commission yet. I expect the social partners to come up with a proposal for a commission. What is stated in the bill will then be discussed by the parties supporting the bill, and there is also my call to the Enhedsliste, that if you vote in favour of the bill, you can also be involved in discussing the mandate. We look forward to it being considered by Enhedslisten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826143942	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left, so thank you to Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826144011	Thank you. It is old-fashioned that when a government thinks that it has been so long that it can defend an intervention, you do it with a bill like this here, and that's typical when the strike fund is about to be empty, the government says that it's gone long enough and then you make an intervention. It's always been like that. We are not ready to negotiate, and in this situation the government then says that it is the regions and the KL that are negotiating, and that is also true, but it is the government that makes the framework for what the regions have to negotiate with. I have not heard the government or the Left say anything about the fact that one is ready to extend that framework, so there was some more funding to negotiate with nurses, midwives, educators and what is there. There are a lot of subjects, and I do not remember all the technical titles, but there is nothing about saying that you are extending the framework that is to negotiate with. It is said that it must be negotiated within the framework of which there is, and then the parties do not move forward, then they go into a stalemate. We have heard several times from the start that nurses have pointed out that there were some issues. We've been talking about this civil servant reform, and there were other things in the structure as well. I do not remember them all, but there were several things that the nurses had pointed out were one of the obstacles to their negotiating pattern, that is, their ability to negotiate. It was something the government could do something about. It was not something that the regions could change, but it was something that the government could change, and if the government had listened from the start and said that a meeting would be held with the nurses in order to know exactly what they wanted to change and which had nothing to do with the economy in the collective bargaining process, then the government could have called from day one, when it was going into a stalemate, a meeting on how we could solve these problems and how we could move forward in removing the barriers to the wage formation of nurses and others. You could have done that from the beginning, but you didn't. You choose to say that you let it run out of time, and we have come to that today and tomorrow... then time has passed. Now the government has no more patience, and now they have to go back to the labour market. In the Danish People's Party we think it is a sad ending to it. Of course, we think it is good that those who are affected by delayed treatments and who cannot get the operation they are going to have can get started again. So do the nurses. This has nothing to do with it. That is not what we should be discussing, because we all agree on this: it is good that people can get the treatment they need, and it is also good that nurses can do their job as they want. But it has to be on the right terms, and that is what has not been achieved with this intervention, and I think that it has been a little overwhelmed. Then it is said that a committee, a pay structure committee, has been proposed to provide a common basis for the parties' further discussions, and it is then before the next agreement that they will have to come up with a proposal I think it is by 31 March 2024 that they will have to come up with a proposal and then go into the other one. And then you just make the number when we talked about the law that the parties supporting the legislation and the urgent action here are the ones who get to see what the pay structure committee brings in. The other parties against legislative action, that is to say. Dansk Folkeparti, Enhedslisten, SF, mr. Sikandar Siddique states that the Free Greens are also one of the parties excluded, and the alternative, that is, those who want to do something for the nurses and help them, is told that we will not see what the committee brings. It is said that it is reserved for those who support the procedure and that the others who will do something are not allowed to be with you that we will not play with you. That is what the government is saying, and that is also what we heard from the Left. Hans Andersen: It is not the policy of the Left that the parties should be involved. We are not being called for negotiations on how to solve the problems. We are not even allowed to see what the committee is bringing in, because everyone in here, I think, has read the bill that the drafting of the terms of reference of the committee will be submitted to those parties who can support the bill. Have I spent five minutes? Fourth Vice-President Yes, time is running fast). I would just like to say that the Danish People's Party is tabling an amendment to this which we are preparing, in other words, as we have asked for it to be prepared. And I must also say that the Danish People's Party says no to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826144543	That is so fine and there is ample opportunity to say something more to the rapporteur, because there are some brief comments. First, Mrs. Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826144558	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted (PSE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. After all, they put a government, and that is why this has got into a stalemate, and you could have solved it in here in a completely different way. The rapporteur now mentioned an amendment which the rapporteur may perhaps have the opportunity to clarify in his reply. I would also like to ask the rapporteur whether the Danish People's Party can support the amendment that we tabled by the Enhedslisten in any case, which concerns the government having to call for negotiations in order to set aside a bag of money that can accompany the pay structure committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826144649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826144650	I will try to do so quickly: will the Minister provide technical assistance to an amendment requiring the government to prepare a proposal before the end of 2021 to adjust how conflicts in the public labour market between worker and employer can be dealt with in the future, bearing in mind the special conditions that characterise the opportunities of several groups of employees in a conflict situation in the public labour market, where several working groups, for example, are involved. staff members of the health service, police and criminal services, including: Because of... the need to maintain critical social functions cannot use the strike weapon in a conflict situation in the same way as employees in the private labour market? Following this, the Government will be required to present the Danish Parliament with a proposal on how the tripartite cooperation in the public labour market can be adjusted in order to reflect the special conditions prevailing on that part of the Danish labour market. And thank you for the question so that I could have the opportunity to give it up. And yes, as I see it, I see no obstacle to the Danish People's Party's support for the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826144750	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826144752	Thank you. And I think I very much share the analysis at the Danish People's Party that the Danish model takes away the opportunities for a great many public employees in terms of using the strike weapon properly, and that it causes some major problems because you are not sitting, actually, on the money box when you negotiate. This is a bit like putting the middle manager in a company to negotiate, even though it is the owner who has the wallet. So it is important debate to raise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826144821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826144822	Well, that's also similar to when there's pay negotiations. Then someone comes in and says, "I want more pay and I want to knock on the table." Well, I'll pay you more than that. And then the next one comes in: Can't I get some more pay? No, but you can get a title; then we call you manager or something, and then you can put it on your business card. Who's best served? This is, in my view, one of the games that takes place in the public sector every once in a while in wage negotiations. But the government has a problem of explanation with the 1,000 nurses, without extending the framework to the regions, in other words in relation to their ability to recruit them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826144857	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826144859	Once again, I have to return to the fact that I think there is an incredible amount of shooting on everyone else, forgetting to take on the responsibilities that you yourself have had, and time is a funny thing, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Surely no one has had as much influence over Danish politics as the Danish People's Party in the last 20 years, and that is why you must also acknowledge the legacy and debt. Otherwise everything will stop. Now it is the case that the Danish People's Party says that it is an unsustainable negotiating situation, but the Danish People's Party is very firm when it comes to shutting down the regions. How, then, does the Danish People's Party envisage avoiding the fact that it is the Minister of Finance who is sitting on the cash register next time and that there is no room for negotiation when you want to cut down the layer that actually serves the regions and thus also negotiates with the parties, that is to say with the nurses today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826144954	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826144955	Well, now I know that Mr. Jens Rohde has a great deal of experience in political work. He has been with us for many years and has had his finger on the pulse all the way through, and we agree that the Minister for Finance is sitting on the money box, and the Minister for Finance has always done so. So did the Minister for Finance before the regions were deprived of their tax receipts. At that time, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Tax were also sitting on the money box, because they were able to manage what the regions might be allowed to set aside funds. However, since the regions have now been deprived of the tax discharge, it is obvious that we in the Danish Parliament must set the framework for what the regions have to do well with so that they can carry out the task and if there are more older people and there is a need for more nurses, then of course we also need to take seriously the framework for what the regions have to work with. We can't just drive with the same frame when more employees are needed, and more and more people need care. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145057	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145059	But that is nothing new, because we have been discussing this for many years now. Why, then, has the Danish People's Party not made that demand, when one has been a parliamentary basis, to previous governments? Why hasn't the chair been put at the door? And I'm not saying it to be polemical, but I'm saying it so that we all have to assume a responsibility in this room to find another way of doing things, instead of just shooting at the government or one or the other, because that's not fair. We haven't all known our visiting time, and that's the point. So what will DF do to ensure that we know our visiting time in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145138	If we are called to the negotiations, we are also ready to take responsibility for looking at whether the framework for the regions should be extended and whether additional money should be provided, that is clear. But Mr. Jens Rohde is one of those who has put a brake on what the Danish People's Party would have liked to have had. Mr. After all, Jens Rohde joined us for years when Mr. Jens Rohde was a member of the Left and had influence there. Maybe it wasn't sir. Jens Rohde himself, but it was the Left Party as such, as Mr. Jens Rohde was in there, putting a brake on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145206	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145209	I would like to follow up a little on the exchange that has just taken place. Because it has to be said that the Danish People's Party has had a massive influence over the years, and if you choose not to back up this legislative action, with reference to the fact that you think there is more to be done in the payroll for nurses, I could imagine, and also for other professional groups, I assume that you must have financed it in your own economic policy, and therefore I am just curious to hear whether we can expect a financial bill from the Danish People's Party this year. We joined the Conservative People's Party last year, and we will do so again. I would like to know whether you can expect a financial bill to finance something like this, which is now being proposed, and, for example, to finance the resolutions tabled during the year in this Chamber, which are quite numerous. Can we expect it from the Danish People's Party this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145301	In fact, I believe that the Danish People's Party has always included the funding when we table motions for resolutions. There may be a few exceptions, but far, by far, most of the resolutions that come from us, there is funding for that. I have not tabled any motions for resolutions which did not involve funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145322	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145323	In any case, I can say that there have been quite a lot of motions for resolutions in the social and elderly sectors, where funding has not necessarily been allocated. However, if the Danish People's Party is right to give funding from time to time, then there should be no problem in putting it together now in a single game, where you then also indicate how much extra money you think should be put into the payroll. So could I get a clear answer this time? I am listening very carefully for a clear answer. Will there be a financial law proposal from the Danish People's Party, and does it contain a payroll for the public employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145353	Now I am not the financial rapporteur, so I shall pass this on to my financial rapporteur, in other words that there is a desire from Conservatives in this area • quite clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145402	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145406	I heard the rapporteur say that we will be voting in favour of the Enhedslisten's amendment that there should be a pool of money into this, as I understood it. Then all I had to hear is how much money is it? In other words, if you had to get the nurses' salary up to the level of the police's salary, someone has said that it might cost 4.2 billion. kr. Is that the amount? That's 4.2 billion. kr.? And how will the Danish People's Party finance the 4.2 billion. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145434	Well, I don't have the exact amount. When we talk about these amendments, I have to admit that I have not had time to see the Enhedslisten's amendments yet, just as Enhedslisten has not yet been able to see the Danish People's Party's amendments. Of course we have to study this further, that is to say what it is about, but one thing I have at least noted is that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and New Citizens will not help the nurses with anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145503	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145505	No, we just mean that you can help them in other ways, but we need to hear about that when I go to the platform. But I didn't tell you. It is the rapporteur who says that we would like to vote in favour of a proposal which we do not know how much is going to cost. But it is said that we can probably vote in favour of this. And then I'm just curious to hear: how much will you vote for? Is it 4.2 billion? kr.? Is this equal pay going to apply to the whole area? If that is what the amendment is about, then it is 15-20 billion. kr. It is fair enough that they say: we would just like to vote in favour of this. But then we must also provide funding for the 4.2 billion. kr. or the 15-20 billion. kr. as it's going to cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145543	Well, now there's a lot of numbers flying in the air from New Citizen. It's just like it used to be. That's a lot of money. As I said, we have not yet seen that amendment, and we must of course be allowed to do so. The probability of our being able to vote in favour is present, but we must first have seen the amendment, as well as Enhedslisten must also have seen the amendment from the Danish People's Party. Of course. We cannot say before whether we will finally vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145608	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145613	Now, of course, we all know that the reason why Enhedslisten has tabled this amendment is that, in exceptional circumstances, we should allocate more money to nurses, which goes beyond what has been negotiated, is that there is not a single professional group in the public sector to which Enhedslisten does not promise higher wages. Does the Danish People's Party also have the view that every professional group in the public sector, which votes against a result of negotiations and makes strikes and stands, etc., should have a higher salary? Does the Danish People's Party also mean that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145649	Now we have to deal with this matter, and there are a lot of people in the public sector who are not in the same situation as nurses. In the Danish People's Party we have the clear position: We believe the nurses are worth more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145702	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145704	No, we have to deal with the fact that if nurses succeed in putting political pressure on a majority in the Folketing so that they are politically agreed that they should receive a higher salary, then in one year's time it will be another professional group in the public sector and, in another year's time, a third professional group in the public sector, and every time the Enhedslist will table amendments to the effect that they should also receive higher salaries, because the Enhedslisten believes that everyone in the public sector should have that. Does the Danish People's Party think that everyone in the public sector should receive higher wages, or is it only the nurses that the Danish People's Party thinks should receive higher wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145732	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145733	Now it is not my view that the Enhedslisten has demanded that everyone in the public sector should be paid more in negotiations. I believe that Enhedslisten respects the Danish model of agreement in which the parties negotiate. Then there are some situations like here with the nurses, where Enhedslisten like Dansk Folkeparti believes that the nurses are worth more. But I can hear that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen and the Liberal Alliance don't think the nurses are worth anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145801	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. So thank you for that, sir. Bent Bøgsted. And the next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. It's sir. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826145814	Thank you. SF votes no to this. We cannot support a proposal that does not set aside one extra penny to correct the unequal salaries that have been created in the public sector for decades as a result of the official reform. We cannot support a proposal in which nothing else is done but to exalt a rejected mediation bill into law. It is no more than 11⁄2 years ago that Denmark was at the beginning of a serious pandemic. The nurses stood in front of the intensive care units without knowing what they really were facing; whether they were facing a potentially very, very deadly virus. But they were still standing there. They were brave, and they did their job. The Sosu assistants and assistants continued, knowingly, the work of caring for the elderly, even though they had the fear of getting in with infection at elderly centres and nursing homes and infecting some elderly people and having to go and live with it. They did their job, and they were brave. The pedagogues and the teaching assistants kept the day institutions open when everything else was closed, largely due to. the British variant. They did their job, and they were brave. The midwives, who were already under stress and had unfair working conditions, continued at birth even though they had to reject partners who wanted to come in for an interview. Something that I know destroyed several partners; that they could not participate in it. It did anyway, the midwives, because they were brave and because they were doing their job. A lot of people were brave during the pandemic. A lot of people did their job. But these professional groups, which I have mentioned, and several other professional groups, which have been doing a lot of research around, all shared the view that they want a clear break with the civil service reform of 1969, a reform which the Danish Parliament adopted. And you understand that. For decade after decade, the unequal pay created by the reform between the public sector professions has not been resolved. For some of the trade groups, it has only got worse. Parliament has not listened. We have simply pushed the monkey forward to the collective bargaining process, and it is also being used as an argument today: it has not been resolved, after all, we have had more collective bargaining. Yeah, and there hasn't been any money for that either. Politicians even admitted, when the official reform was carried out, that you have to look at this reform on a regular basis, because it is crooked. But you haven't looked at it, you haven't been brave, you haven't done your job. And what's the risk of this? That is almost the worst thing about it: yes, it is that we risk losing all those here that are so important to our welfare societies. We talk a lot about the shortage of labour in the future. But this is the reality of the many subjects: we need nurses, we need midwives, we need educators. And what you're creating now with this is a kind of temporary employment society where these people feel pressured to go into temporary work at agencies, because then you can get more flexibility and you can get a wage that is linked. And then it becomes a negative spiral, because then the public needs to spend more on temps, and then you have to save again. And then again, there's less for when you're negotiating. And it's not just the fact that we're losing them and that they're changing jobs, because that's their right. But it is also the fact that we are losing their support and their trust, which is so fundamental to running a welfare society. We do not want to be involved in this, and we therefore propose amendments to make an equal pay law to set aside money to ensure that when this pay structure committee is completed, solutions are found that create equal pay in Denmark. Quality costs, which is why you have to drop money. Otherwise, it'll just be another jam jar. And then I'm a little tired now I've only got 1 minute left of all those who in these days in the media make it sound like such a strategy and spin game and who criticize the nurses and the other unions and say: they've lost or that it might not be so strategic. It's been fighting for what they believed in! But they have been up against an overpowering power because we have a public Danish negotiating model where you lose out in advance if you want to make significant changes to the welfare society. They have had to enter into negotiations with Danske Regionser and KL, and we have all known that they could not deliver, because it requires money from the government. And that is why I and the SF believe that there is a need for government intervention and that the government needs to take responsibility. But it takes money. There isn't in this; there's one extra crown, and that's why the SF is voting against the bill. I didn't plan to say this, but now I'm doing it anyway, specifically to you nurses sitting up there listening with: I worked at a school in 2012 during the teacher conflict. My mom's a teacher. My best friends are teachers. I saw what it did to that professional group and I know what the SF's responsibility was in that they were squealed. I recognize the hopelessness and impotence that many of you must have. But I promise you, it will not be in vain and the debate will not die here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150329	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150337	Thank you. I would actually like to start by commending the SF for taking responsibility for the fact that we can deal with this legislation urgently here. Even if we do not vote in favour in the end, we will be able to bring this conflict to an end more quickly, to the benefit of the many patients who can see their treatments and operations postponed, and I think, as it were, without knowing for sure that the nurses have an interest in getting it concluded as soon as possible. The rapporteur is spreading this debate to not just about nurses, but more about salaries in the public sector. I have been looking at the equal pay alliance's side to try to get some figures on this, and it is pointed out that there is an inequality of 13.1%, but it is an inequality of pay which also involves the private labour market. I find this problematic, because I do not believe that it can be calculated across sectors, between the public and the private sectors. Is the rapporteur aware of figures showing what this inequality is in the public labour market, because I have simply not been able to find figures for it? When you say that this is such a big problem, I also think you have to give some relevant figures on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150444	So, the research we lean on is the one that Astrid Elkjær Sørensen has been doing, where she has reviewed all the documents relating to the old civil service reform and has looked at all the collective bargaining since then, and that is the research that VIVE has been doing. They both point to it, and it will of course be different from the subject group to the subject group, how unequal it is, for example. As far as midwives are concerned, it has moved the wrong way since the civil service reform. I do not want to stand here and claim that I suddenly have to be a full pay expert and that I can all the salaries of the various professional groups. That is why I actually think it is a good idea to have such a pay structure committee. I just don't believe it if there's no money in it. If there is no money for such a pay committee and it has to present its results straight up to an agreement negotiation, what will be the answer from the government? Yes, it will be: you will have to solve that in collective bargaining. And then we are faced with the same problem, and that is not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150531	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150532	I did not hear any specific figures from Mr. Jacob Mark, and I take that as a statement that there is a need for more knowledge in this area, which compares in the public sector, that is to say the different professional groups there. Because that's where I totally buy that we have a responsibility. It is we who are ultimately employers and we must ensure proper conditions where it is not the gender that decides it. However, does the rapporteur agree that when we are going to make this wage comparison, we must do so in isolation in the public sector and that it does not make sense to compare across the public and private sectors in wage regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150604	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150605	Well, FH has now made a proposal on how such a pay structure committee can work, and I actually respect that, even if it spreads further. However, I think, as Mrs Mette Abildgaard also says, that the relevant thing, because it is linked to the reform of the civil service, is the inequality among the professions in the public sector, where a hierarchy has been created, where those who work in typically more male-dominated subjects get more than those who work in more female-dominated subjects. Girl pay has to be over.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150634	Thank you. And then it's sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150636	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a very good speech. I think that the rapporteur has just touched on the key elements, both the question of the civil service reform of 1969, the loss of pay that has led to in relation to the low-wage areas and, most importantly, the great challenge that we face in terms of maintaining and recruiting the staff that is so important. In fact, I would like to quote our good working poet up there from Vrå Carl Scharnberg, who says that every time a public welfare strike occurs, there is an intervention because it is said that the function is vital, and why is it that those who dispute vital functions are low paid? That is basically the problem we are facing now. I would just like to ask the rapporteur a question after we have heard the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment several times in the debate we have had so far. For me, it is still a little unclear what it is that the committee should specifically address in relation to the exact challenge of recruitment and retention and the pay gap if it is not about bringing more money into the table, which I can also hear that SF agrees with. Can the rapporteur tell me whether the rapporteur has heard any other suggestions as to what could be the concrete solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150750	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150751	In fact, I asked the Minister directly at yesterday's meeting whether those who are going to sit on this pay structure committee could spend money or whether the government would require it to be cost-neutral, because then it was completely on horseback, to put it plainly; then it could not be done. There was the Minister's undertaking that they would be free to decide what to recommend. I simply cannot imagine in my wildest imagination that the trade union movement should come up with proposals that are cost-neutral when it is quite clear that this problem can only be remedied by raising wages and it costs money. The interesting thing will be whether the government will accept partly that they must come up with solutions that cost money and partly whether the government will bring some money when they come up with these solutions. We will.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150840	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150841	Yes, that is exactly what is interesting, and that is why we are in a rather awkward situation now. It seems to me that we can hear here in the debate that both the SF, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and others have expressed a desire that we should call for negotiations to ensure that we put some money on the table, which can be left to the parties to negotiate. That is why the government has actually seen a choice between the solution or the solution that is being chosen now, and I should just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that it would have been much more constructive if we had to solve the recruitment and retention problem if the government had looked at a different side than the one we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150924	Yeah, I totally agree, and I'm actually puzzled too. We know what policy is like: we are making a proposal. Enhedslisten makes a proposal. I really expected that the Social Democratic Party, which is also a working party and which is also fighting for equal pay for equal work, would come up with something just like a proposal and would try to accommodate us. There has been no negotiation. In other words, the government has not wanted to set aside money for that work with the bourgeois parties, and it will then be our task, along with all those who go on the streets, to ensure that it comes to it at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826150959	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151001	But it could just be interesting to print Mr. Jacob Mark and SF on how far you're willing to go here. May I remind you, sir? Jacob Mark and his party are government support parties? How far are we willing to go for the nurses' sake, not just on the street, but also in this Chamber, in terms of getting money on the table and putting pressure on the government instead of just letting the blue parties pick up the bill, the political bill, I guess?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151036	This is an exciting question, and I can also see on many social media that many ask: Why don't you put the government chair at the door? And Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen will probably ask: Why don't you overthrow the government? At least that's a classic question from that edge. But that is because we do not believe in the parliamentary strategy. In fact, we feel in the SF that we have achieved a great deal in this parliamentary term: minimum standards, free psychological assistance for young people, large natural parks throughout the country. But those decisions haven't come in a day, and if we had just knocked down the government, they wouldn't have come. This is gonna take hard work. It requires that the SF and the other parties who want to do something about this get bigger, it requires that the trade union movement and the employees arm themselves, and that requires that we give it a maximum. gas when the pay structure committee then comes up with its recommendations, which 100 percent will probably cost money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151124	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151125	In any case, I would like to send a greeting to the other trade union movement here, which has completely failed the nurses. In other words, on behalf of the nurses, we must express disappointment that the rest of the trade union movement has not been able to show the solidarity which the nurses actually deserve in the struggle they are conducting here. Well, it stands for me as a riddle, but leave it alone. What I would like to ask is that, when we changed the financing structure of the regions responsible for our hospitals and our health, the SF was very much opposed to the removal of tax collection rights from the regions. Why doesn't the party want to help restore it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151208	First of all, I would just like to say to the trade union movement as a whole that I have not only met nurses on the street, but that I have also met lots of others from lots of other trade unions, and I think then there was a union that chose to say that they strike and give it a maximum. gas and that there were some others who said that this is not the way they are going, and that is their right. But I want to go to the point that they are not all fighting for the same cause, just saying that I simply do not recognise that. In relation to the issue of local tax collection, I would say that SF is a decentralised party, we believe in self-management, and I think it was a mistake to remove local tax collection, which also makes it possible to develop democracy locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151245	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151247	Thank you. No, I couldn't dream of saying that the SF will overthrow the government. We know very well that nothing could cause the SF to overthrow this government. I guess there are other parties threatening that all the time, but I could never dream of shooting SF in my shoes. But this is not a new problem, so I would like to hear a little bit about what the SF has done in previous financial years, whether this has been brought into the financial law negotiations, whether concrete proposals have been made to change this. Because you knew the problem was there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151320	It has, of course, been reversed in the financial law negotiations, but instead of pretending that it has been such a major theme in the financial law negotiations, I would just say that I have never believed that this is something that can be resolved in a financial law debate on which there is a negotiating reserve based on the region of 2-3 billion. kr. Because this is going to cost 2-3 billion. kr. To make up for it. So what SF believes is needed is an independent reform debate, where they say that a problem is solved on the basis of some knowledge from the pay structure committee and the research that has been done, and then you find a source of funding, and we should go into a room and put our arm around it. And what the SF has said is that we will finance it from a property tax of 0.5%. On the biggest fortunes. However, in a budget debate, I do not really think it is realistic to solve this problem, because it must be in an independent debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151405	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151406	I know that the government is presenting what it considers to be the framework of the financial regulatory reserve, but that can of course be increased and reduced depending on the decisions taken up to the financial law negotiations. After all, it is they who are negotiating with the Finance Act that are putting the overall budget there. Will the rapporteur not acknowledge this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151427	But, on the other hand, there are many areas in society for which we have to be responsible when we negotiate financial law. There is the area of disability, there are minimum standards and there is psychological help, and that is why I would just like to say in relation to the game of putting it into our financial law catalogues, and that we have covered our backs from the fact that we are not going to solve such a big and historic challenge if we do not take a big blow at a source of finance somewhere, and that requires an independent debate. But it also requires a mobilization from the trade union movement, so there is pressure on the government, and that is why I think there should be an independent debate on this, and that is what the SF is proposing with an equal pay law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151500	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151501	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the floor. Now the rapporteur says that there has been no debate. There has been, among other things. It is not because the SF has secured the majority for this urgent procedure, which de facto means accepting the legislative action. That's what it means. Because if the majority of the Radical Left and the SF had not been taken care of, then we could negotiate. So I just want to know whether the rapporteur wants to, what can be said, shed some light on how, on the one hand, we want to negotiate, but, on the other hand, we say yes to the urgent procedure, which de facto means that we accept the legislative action. Will the rapporteur give me some insight into his thoughts on this? Why has the SF taken the step that they have?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151552	I think that one of the most difficult things about being a member of parliament is the responsibility that comes with it. You always think about what's right to do. And if I have to share my thoughts on this with urgent procedure, I would say that on the one hand there was the possibility of voting no, and we were the tongue of the scales we could vote no to an emergency procedure. It would have thrown our country into another 30 days of conflict. I think the nurses' strike boxes had been further emptied. This would have had massive consequences for our health services and for patients. And would it have worked? No. That's the truth. Because we have a Danish model for the public, which is dysfunctional. There had been the same large majority who would not find the money, and then it had just been 30 days instead of 2 days when our country had been exposed to this and the nurses had been subjected to this. Well, I wanted to say yesterday, too, I just want to say, "Be steadfast and send a strong signal." But after all, with those scales and the responsibility that goes with it, I thought on the other hand that the right thing for SF was to say: let's get this over with, because there is a massive majority doing something that we disagree with, but then we vote against the bill because we disagree with the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151659	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151700	Then I just don't understand what SF will do. We must remember that this is happening under a so-called red government with red support parties. If not even the nurses here say that he does not believe that such a large bag of money can be found in the Finance Act, then now you want to have broad political negotiations. To me it just sounds like another jam jar... not that SF wants a jam jar, but it turns into a jam jar. So I just want to hear how the SF, which is currently a parliamentary basis for a government, is sitting it on your mercy to secure the nurses? Will the SF give us a guarantee that we can ensure that nurses receive a decent, decent salary?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151750	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151750-2	It's basically about whether you believe that the way to influence and change in this society always goes through ultimatums or through hard political work. As SFs, I feel at least that I believe that the great changes will be created when left-wing parties join in an alliance with those who are out in reality and push the government. Then the left-wing parties will become larger by means of elections, and then you can afford to make tougher demands when the elections are over. The trade union movement then pushes at the same time. It is with the alliance that the great changes have taken place. That is also what we are working for here. That is also why I am saying that we need to equip ourselves further when the pay structure committee is completed, and that is why we are tabling amendments to the draft law and voting no because we do not agree with the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151829	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151831	Thank you. The rapporteur must at least explain why this wish, which the SF has, cannot be met in a debate on the budget. That is where the money is set aside to give priority, and there are therefore 1 000 billion. kr. So why is it that the SF does not require it at all as a prerequisite for making a finance agreement? One might think in one's quiet mind that SF really does not want to make this priority here, because SF has other priorities when it comes to the financial bill debate than, as I understand it, to ensure a pay increase of 2 billion. kr. for all public servants or how am I supposed to understand that? But why doesn't SF just make it a requirement to conclude a financial agreement at all? It can be done today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826151938	When we make a budget law, there are many areas that are important. There is the day-to-day area where standards have been cut for 30 years. There is the primary school where the class ratio has been increasing for 10 years and where the preparation period has been decreasing since the reform of primary school. There is the handicap area, which is laying the municipalities completely down. When you are in a financial law debate, it is a financial law debate on the overall financial law for the coming year, and that is why there are many things to be prioritised. Typically, a financial law reserve of between 2 and 3 billion. kr. under a red government, and that was a somewhat lower amount under the Left Government, and that is the whole amount that I believe and the SF estimates it takes to make an equal pay law. That is why we are saying that it would be more honest to have a real debate where we say: this is what it costs and that is how we will find the money. And we will find the money through a fortune tax of 0.5%. on assets of more than 5 million. kr., because we will take from those who have got the most during the corona crisis, and give to those who go to work every day and stand on the front line.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152034	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152035	I understand that the SF's assessment is that we solve the equal pay problem by 2 billion. kr. annual. I've read that others think it's about 15-20 billion. kr. annual. But SF will not, therefore, do not want to prioritize nurses and other public groups compared to the other wishes that SF will then save for the finance negotiations. It is just an expression of the fact that yes, everything is a priority. And I just have to say that the SF doesn't want to stand firm on the request. It's just empty talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152117	First of all, however, I think that if you have to make such a big blow after so many decades of failed policy, where the Folketing has not done what you promised when you did the civil service reform, you have to make a major negotiation. There has to be public pressure. There have to be some parties that recognise that this cannot be taken within the normal reserve. It takes us to find the money somewhere. And I miss the fact that some of the parties who say that you want to help solve this also say: we are ready to find the money. ♪ And we ♪
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152151	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152208	Thank you, President. We are in a really bad situation today. It's tough when a conflict has to be closed down with legal action. It's not funny, and we're in a situation without winners. In the Radical Left, we would have liked a solution to have been found between the parties, but there was no prospect of a solution at the negotiating table; that was what the Minister for Employment told us yesterday. At the same time, the Minister for Health announced to us last night that every week the conflict continues, the hump of operations and delayed treatments will be extended by 10 weeks. He also announced that the hump that has already arisen would at this stage take up to two years to catch up. We cannot offer this to patients or health professionals for that matter, not when the negotiators say very clearly that there has been no prospect of a solution at the negotiating table. Then there's the trail of equal pay. This procedure doesn't solve the equal pay challenge. In the Radical Left, we believe that, unfortunately, there is still something to fight for in the area of equal pay, and that is a problem that remains unresolved. With a pay structure committee, we will all have a common knowledge base, and on the part of the Radical Left we insist that tripartite discussions on equal pay will be called on the back of it so that a long-term plan can be put in place to deal with structural disputes. This gender issue is broader than that. It is essentially a question of women's occupations being placed at the lowest level in 1969 in a pay hierarchy, because the view of women's income was that it was just a secondary income to the household, and it is not a view of equality worthy of 2021. That is why, in the Radical Left, we are going to stop the government from taking this issue seriously, and we want action to be followed up when the pay structure committee has done its job. With those words, I can tell you that the Radical Left supports the government's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152433	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152438	Thank you. The rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa, has my greatest respect in the area of equality. We have been equals rapporteurs together, and I know the rapporteur as one who is extremely insightful and passionate about fighting for equality in Denmark. It is therefore also regrettable for me that Radicals have made the choice to vote in favour of this legislative measure. I really think it's sad. Yes, there are huge problems right now for our health services, and we have to stop them, but not with this legislative action, which is not going to solve anything, but by finding a pool of money to give to the parties broadly so that all those affected by unequal pay can actually get equal pay. That is how we propose in the Enhedslisten, among others. along with the SF, and I am sorry that we apparently do not share that pact with Radicals. However, I hope that together we can fight to ensure that money is actually put on the table when there is a conclusion from the pay structure committee, and I would like to hear from Radicals whether they will be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152547	Thank you for the words to the rapporteur. It is the case that the issue of equality is of great concern to me and to the Radical Left, in which Mrs Mai Villadsen is right. That is also why I spend so much of my speaking time on the fact that here is an equal pay problem that we in the Radical Left are going to see this as two tracks, and that is what we have said all the way through. There is the acute problem of a specific conflict and a lot of patients are suffering right now, and then there is the structural issue which concerns nurses, educators, so-called women's domination professions in general, and what we are proposing and what we are imagining is tripartite discussions where all parties bring something to the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152642	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152643	That is, of course, what we have proposed, namely that there is money from Christiansborg for trialogues, so that everyone, not only nurses, but sosus, midwives, educators, radiographs, physiotherapists, cleaning assistants, all those who are affected by the structural inequality pay, receive money. However, I have yet to hear from the rapporteur whether the radicals are actually prepared to allocate the funds and whether they will perhaps vote in favour of our amendments to the draft law, which will force the government to call for negotiations so that we can find money that goes with the pay structure committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152721	The amendments have been discussed at length, and some have been read out, but it is the case that I have not yet seen anyone, so I will not make any comment on specific amendments here. However, I have seen the same hope as Mrs Mai Villadsen, namely that this is not a fight that we are going to let go. We do not do this radically, because we are interested in the long-term solution and in finding a solution to the structural problems of nurses, yes, but also other women's domination professions, which have been the lowest in the hierarchy when it comes to the reform of the civil service.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152758	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152800	Thank you. In other words, I do not quite understand where the Radicals are going to settle the issue of structural inequality when Radicals today announce that they will vote in favour of a government proposal which precisely confirms the unequal pay. For the answer would be to be able to bring the money to the table and leave it to the three sides and allow the parties to distribute the funds to the whole of the low-wage area. However, I would like to address another point raised by the rapporteur, and that is the hump that will arise if the conflict is allowed to continue. Well, first I have to say that the hump of two years was, of course, if you waited four weeks to make an operation... that's what we could see in the numbers... and not when you're doing the procedure now. But nobody says we have to wait four weeks. We could have just sat down at the table and solved the conflict... had solved it tomorrow for that matter... by bringing that money in. And what is the rapporteur's position regarding the fact that when we allow this unequal pay to continue, we will have enormous problems in terms of recruitment and retention of staff? And it will have direct consequences for both the working environment and patient safety if we do not ensure that we can maintain the skilled employees who are now, but instead drive them away from the profession.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826152917	I hope we can agree that this particular conflict, addressed by this legislative measure, was a strike by nurses. The problem which I see, and which the Radical Left sees, includes both nurses, but also generally women's domination professions, for example. the educators and the sosu. And that is why I say that the problem and the challenge that is wide cannot be solved by intervention now and here on the issue of nurses alone. And I don't think this confirms an unequal wage. Then there is a challenge in terms of recruitment and retention, and I believe that it arises from the overall package in relation to working conditions, but also pay conditions. And that's why I want and the Radical Left wants this structural showdown.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153014	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153015	Well, I really don't understand how the Radical Left will end this. So, I think the rapporteur should go back and read the amendment tabled by the Enhedslisten, which is precisely about us putting the money on the table for the whole of the low-wage area for a break with the civil service reform, for a break with the pay gap in relation to the women's dominated professions. It's for the nurse, for the sosu, for the teacher and for the teacher. But if Radicals vote against, we do not get it, whereas if Radicals choose to vote in favour, we can have it. So why is it that Radicals will not support it? It is therefore a confirmation of the unequal pay when you intervene and directly lime a mediation proposal which the nurses have rejected twice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153059	The intervention we are talking about here has to do with resolving a specific conflict here and now. When I talk about solving a problem of unequal pay, it is in the long run, and then it is for women-dominated professions at all. And here we say on the part of the Radical Left that what we see before us is tripartite discussions. It's really nice that we get this pay structure committee. But on the back of it, there should be some trialogues where all parties bring something to the table. This applies to employers, workers, but also to Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153139	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153141	Thank you. I find it a little difficult to find out what the Radical Left wants in this; I have to say that honestly. I understand that the problem of equal opportunities must be referred to as the problem of equal pay. Now you have the opportunity to do something about it and then choose not to do anything about it, but it is very close to your heart. I am also hearing the rapporteur say right now in his reply to my colleague, Mr President. Peder Hvelplund, that this will solve a specific conflict. I don't think this will solve anything. This procedure doesn't change the fact that nurses and other women's domination professions get too little in the payroll, so this doesn't solve any conflict at all. I think it is very problematic to see in the Radical Left the conflict in which the nurses are facing separate from the general problem we are facing with a loss of pay. So frankly, I find it hard to understand why the Radical Left is not just acting on it now. The mandates are there, you have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153241-2	It actually solves something quite concrete if you talk to the patients who have had their treatments postponed. In fact, it solves something quite concrete for those who may be aggravating their medical condition while waiting. It solves the hump that has built up and is not extended. So it is not fair to say that it does not solve anything; it does. It does not solve anything in relation to the structural problem we have with unequal wages in Denmark. It does not solve the fact that back in 1969 women's domination subjects were chosen much lower than male-dominated subjects because they saw women's income as a secondary income in the household, and that is why we say that we are not finished with that fight at all. It has only just begun, and we also want to see some trialogues where all parties bring something to the table. And I hope then that the Enhedslisten instead of turning Radical Left into the enemy actually takes that fight side by side with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153344	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153345	That is precisely what we are inviting the Radical Left to do: side by side to support our amendments. And I must say to the Radical Left rapporteur that there will also be a hump in the future. There will also be patients in the future who will need nurses and I am insanely nervous that those nurses will not be there if we do not ensure that there is some more money on the table. The parties cannot ensure that. We can ensure that in here from Christiansborg. So the hump you're talking about is there right now, you just push forward. You just push it forward. It's gonna get worse for future patients if we don't solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153426	It is clear that such a hump will increase in the course of a conflict, and that is why we are saying that this conflict must be brought to an end, and it must be based on the fact that the parties have not been able to find each other. How I wish the parties had found a solution with each other so that we did not stand here in this situation today. That would be a fantastic scenario, and I think everyone actually agrees on that. It has just not succeeded, and so it is that you have to step in and take responsibility for those patients who are experiencing worsening a course of illness while waiting for treatment while they have their surgery postponed and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153503	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153505	I have been a little excited to hear the rapporteur of the Radicals, because we have actually been very united in this fight for equal pay among public servants, and that is why I was very puzzled when the rapporteur said at yesterday's meeting that this bill was supported, which of course does nothing to combat unequal pay in the public sector. There's not a crown. There are no obligations in relation to the fact that when this pay structure committee is completed, you have to follow up on some of the recommendations. There is nothing in this bill that will help it, and the rapporteur admits it too. And so I feel like: Okay, Radicals have made a choice to vote for the bill fair enough but why the hell are Radicals not tabling their own amendments or voting for some of our amendments, which are actually concrete proposals on how to do away with this unequal pay? So why not make your own proposal if it is so important to radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153602	That is not an admission. That is a statement, and that is the way it should be when it comes to government action. I believe that there will be other women's dominated professional groups who will be puzzled if some funds can be added to the back of a conflict, and there are others who stand and look puzzled at it. That is why we are saying that this problem is a general one. It is not only about nurses, it is about more women-dominated subjects, and it needs to be resolved in general. There was a report from the Institute for Human Rights. I think sir... Jacob Mark himself referred to it earlier today. The recommendation from that report is, of course, that Parliament should actually examine the reform of civil servants and the structure of salaries, and there is also a call for tripartite negotiations. We are also leaning on the report and recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153706	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153707	Well, the rapporteur is just forgetting the recommendation that money should also be set aside, which is quite essential in order to be able to do away with unequal pay. There's just something I'm wondering. Both SF and Enhedslisten want a general solution. None of us is proposing to find only a solution for nurses; it is a solution in general in the public sector so that there will be equal pay. So I think that is really good news for the rapporteur, because then the rapporteur can obviously vote in favour of the proposals. But if that is not the case, why does the rapporteur's party not put forward its own proposal which solves this unequal wage problem in a way that Radicals think is right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153747	Well, this is something that the Radical Left is going to pursue, and now there is a pay structure committee and, as I understood Mr. Jacob Mark, he was actually very pleased and enthusiastic about the pay structure committee. I believe that it will provide the government, the Danish Parliament, the social partners with a common knowledge base to act on, but it is not enough to say that the social partners will then have to solve the situation as there is, with unequal pay among the women-dominated professions. There must also be a third party, who will then be the government. And when I say that all parties must bring something to the table, there is also the fact that some money must accompany it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153826	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153828	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say that I have now heard on several occasions in the Radical Left talking about equal pay, and we have also raised cases in this Chamber together. I would say that it is to throw the nurses under the bus when, first of all, we supported the urgent procedure and then supported the legislative action, and I do not hear the Radical Left saying that any of the amendments that exist will be supported. So, as I asked the SF, I would like to ask the radical rapporteur whether the rapporteur can explain why this opportunity was not used to force the government to the negotiating table. There was momentum in the population, in the nurses, in many of the parties, so why didn't this momentum and this opportunity be used to force the government to the negotiating table and ensure better conditions for the nurses?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826153932	When the Radical Left has come up with the idea that this is the right solution in a situation that is all sorts of a shame, it is because we have been able to see how patients have suffered a long time in a long conflict. It has not been for the benefit of patients, and the fact that there is a hump does not benefit a health care professional either. And we see this as the right way to do it, but it is also a pity because the parties themselves could not find a solution. However, this does not mean that the Radical Left will be free of the fight for equal pay, because it must continue to be taken, and I can hear that there are many who are willing and ready to take it with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154016	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154017	I was talking about the experienced nurse who has been waiting for 30 years to get a decent and decent salary. It is also people, it is life, and we must not forget that. And then I'd like to ask the Radical Left something. I dare almost stand in this Chamber and guarantee that there will be a pay structure committee, and then the politicians will talk, those you want to invite, and then it will end up with nothing anyway. I almost dare to promise that here today. But will the Radical Left guarantee that the Radical Left, if it does not ensure equal pay for the salary structure committee, together with the rest of the left and those who want to, will ensure that nurses receive a decent and decent salary by demanding it in the financial law negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154110	The Radical Left will cooperate with those who want to. We do not have any dislike for anyone there, because it is simply a matter of politics. So, yes, we'd like to work with anyone on that. This isn't about me standing here guaranteeing anything. If the Radical Left has 90 seats at the end of the salary structure committee, I can guarantee anything, but I think the only thing I can guarantee is that the Radical Left does not have 90 seats at that time. That is why I cannot stand here and give any guarantees at all, but we will not let go of the fact that there must be tripartite discussions on the back of that pay structure committee. This is serious, and we want to hold the government to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154156	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154157	I therefore have a great deal of respect for the reasoning that Mrs Samira Nawa has put forward here in relation to taking responsibility for the situation. I think that's quite fair. But at the same time Mrs Samira Nawa says that everyone must bring something to the table, and then the question is: what brings the Radical Left to the table? It's still in the dark. If you want to change the world, you have to start with yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154236	I am not sure I understand the question, since the Radical Left is not in government. But when we say that all parties must bring something to the table, it is because the government in a trialogue is one side, and then the government must also bring something to the table. And we in the Radical Left will support the idea that money is being set aside to solve the equal pay challenge that exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154303	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154304	Oh, it's a little too easy. If you think that money should be put on the table, you have to give yourself funding. Otherwise, it doesn't make much sense. After all, we have said that we want the regions to have a right of taxation so that the economy can be organised in a decentralised manner. This is one of the ways, and in addition, in our 2030 plan, we have allocated EUR 14 billion. kr. to the health service in order to make the necessary investment both to make up for the sausage factory mentality in the way we run our health services today from the political point of view, and the pay gap there is. What does the Radical Left think of these proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154347	Then I think I understood the question better in relation to the fact that funding must also be provided. I do not think that the Radical Left has delivered any concrete proposal at any time without providing funding. We will do so at any time, and what we will be waiting for is also that the amount involved will be set. And I have an expectation that the pay structure committee will look into several things, but among other things. also what it is that is of need.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154417	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154418	Thank you. It is just to this concern with regard to patients and with regard to the hump that comes, that I think that the concern we have right now in relation to the conflict will be multiplied by well over 1,000, if we do not manage the future in which we look and where more people flee the profession, if we do not take it seriously, that, as it has come up several times, one in three nurses recruitment in 2021 has been in vain and that there is a decline in nursing education and, in general, in the major welfare education programmes. There will be a lack of hands, and I will just have to follow up a little on the question that came from Mrs Mai Villadsen earlier. For the Radical Left, we voted against the citizens' proposal to abolish the civil service reform. No conditions have been laid down by the Radical Left to vote in favour of the government's legislative action; at least that is not something we can see from the legislative action. That is why I hope that the Radical Left will at least vote in favour of our amendments, and it is this: the government calls the parties of the Folketing for negotiations on funding for the salary structure committee's solution to the problem of unequal pay. I think I address some of what Radicals have said from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154535	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154537	This does so to the extent that the recommendations of the Committee on Labour Structures are there today and tell us how much funding is needed, but they do not. And then there is that in relation to the concern of the Radical Left for patients: we have it, both in the short term and in the long term, and that is why we are also interested in solving this problem structurally, in the long term and for several professional groups. Because recruitment and retention are difficult if the overall package at your workplace is not good enough, and the overall package consists partly of working conditions and partly of wages, and that is why we really want to solve this problem in the long run, so that it does not just become a here and now solution, and then we do not talk about it anymore. What has succeeded here is seriously putting equal pay on the agenda and really getting all of us in the Assembly Chamber to deal with it, and we in the Radical Left take this seriously, and we will keep that focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154646	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154648	But I think that's just a little naive, because there's no guarantee in what's on the table right now. After all, there is no guarantee that we will vote in favour of the recommendations. There is no guarantee that the government will find funding. There is no guarantee that it will result in some improvements. I know that both of our parties are rather frustrated that the government simply set up the Performance Commission, which said that the recommendations should be cost-neutral, and about what consequences it has had, that the Løkke government stole over a billion. kr. from the area. So I guess there's got to be something a little more firm, or is it good enough for the Radical Left now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154727	There will have to be something a little more firm on the back of the pay structure committee, and there we say that there should be a trialogue in which all parties bring something to the table because we are dealing with a structural problem here in society, a wage challenge that can be dated back to 1969 and, incidentally, a politically determined reform. That is why the responsibility for putting it to good use rests partly on our shoulders.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154757	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Radical Left rapporteur, so thank you to Mrs Samira Nawa. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826154814	Nurses, sosus, midwives, educators, physiotherapists, cleaning assistants, radiographs and many, many more deserve equal pay. We cannot have a secure and stable welfare society without you. Skillful and dedicated nurses, whom the government has praised at the press conference after the press conference throughout the Corona crisis to stand on the front line and take care of us all, working hard day and night. You take thousands of extra shifts, are away from your families nights, holidays, normal days, and you make health care stick together. The nurses are now being forced out of the equal pay strike and back into an already squashed health service, abandoned by the Social Democratic Government in cooperation with the right. I am deeply concerned that our welfare societies can be linked in the future when the government insists on treating our civil servants, and indeed, frankly, so badly. Since yesterday I have received messages from nurses who are now quitting their jobs, disillusioned and lost that Christiansborg does not listen to their "no', and that happens, while thousands of posts are already unoccupied in our welfare system. The search for the courses falls, and employees who actually love their subjects feel pressured to flee. It's probably only gonna get worse now. It may be the nurses who have been on strike in the last nine weeks, but the fight for equal pay is part of a greater movement. Sosus, midwives, educators and many more demand equal pay at the same time. It should be clear that a strong welfare system is only maintained with a fair wage for those employed in it. Yet the government has now chosen to make an intervention that does not listen to the nurses and that does not find a single penny to solve the equal pay crisis that is actually tearing our welfare community apart. I believe that the equal pay crisis threatens to become a welfare crisis, and the worst thing is that it could easily have been avoided. The mandates of the Enhedslisten have always been available to the government in order to find a binding and real solution with money for a fair wage increase for the low-wage professions, for a break with the civil service reform, for a settlement with unequal pay. We have been fighting for that for years, we have said so before these collective bargaining negotiations, and we have reached out. When I count the mandates today, I can see that the government had a real choice. We could have made a different majority • Enhedslisten together with the government, SF and Dansk Folkeparti. Back in 2008, there was also conflict and equal pay discussion. At that time, I was familiar with the Social Democratic Party's desire to support a low and equal pay pool. What's changed, sir? Minister for Gender Equality? Because this isn't a matter of intervention or not. It is a question of whether money should be followed up into a dispute with the civil service reform, which has created unequal wages since 1969. This is the crucial task of society that the government is failing today, unfortunately. I would like to say one thing to all of you who have struck, who have made and signed citizens' proposals, fought, backed up the sidelines, waved to all of us from the bike paths, distributed flyers, written speeches, shared your stories, even your payrolls with the public: your struggle and commitment have been absolutely priceless. And it's not over yet. You have put the fight for equal pay on the agenda and created a greater momentum than ever before. You have started a movement that cannot be stopped by a rapid legislative action. The next step is not to go home, it's to continue the fight and find money for this pay structure committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155339	Then there are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155342	After all, the public sector's working groups must receive the necessary remuneration in order to attract a sufficient number of qualified employees to the needs that exist, and if you are in a situation where you fear a shortage of employees, it is the employer's job to say that you will then have to raise wages so that you can have the employees you need in the future. And in this case, it is the responsibility of the regions to do so, and that is not the responsibility of the Folketing. But I would like to ask Mrs Mai Villadsen: can one imagine that there is a professional group of public employees who have a significant number which Enhedslisten does not think should have a higher salary? So, if tomorrow it is primary school teachers or police officers or prison officers who strike for a higher salary, will the Enhedslisten also support it? Or will the Enhedslisten who says that no, you have to deal with that yourself with your employers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155437	To the first, which the rapporteur addresses: yes, the employer may need to find more money to attract skilled labour. But employers can't do that in this case, because they can't print taxes, they can't get more money in the box. But it is the government that makes it available, and that is also why it is the responsibility of the Folketing and especially the government. To the question of whether there are any groups that should not be paid any more: we have proposed, year by year, in the Enhedslisten, a low and equal pay pool for negotiation between the social partners. We have among other things. also financed one of the proposals in part by saying that there should be a stop to the salaries of directors and managers, which, for some, we think we are getting too much money, including in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155530	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155532	If, next year, the highest paid groups of the ten major professional groups in the public sector decide that they do not find their salary satisfactory and they strike, and there will be a conflict, and we in the Parliamentary Chamber will again end up with the government proposing intervention, will the Enhedslisten not only repeat that the top-paid group of the ten major professional groups in the public sector should also receive more money from the Folketing? Isn't it just the easy solution that Enhedslisten chooses every time, i.e. that some ask for more money, and Enhedslisten, who has no responsibility for anything, promises more money?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155613	In fact, I would recommend that the rapporteur read our proposal from the Enhedslisten to a low and equal pay pool. Because we have never proposed that it is the Enhedslisten that dictates wages or which professional groups should actually be promised. No, it must be based on the social partners, and that is why we have proposed that a pool be set up which the social partners in a tripartite negotiation can distribute. There I think we should make a binding, so it is the low-wage groups, which are among other things. prison officers, as the rapporteur mentioned, but also cleaning assistants, sosus and nurses. We know this historically.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155651	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155653	I would like to ask again how much pay differences between men and women are in the public sector. Because, as I mentioned earlier, this equal pay alliance has abandoned it across the public and private labour markets. And I don't think that's entirely accurate. I was inside today, just out of curiosity, and try to look at policemen and nurses, for it is such a bit comparable: there are many men in one and many women in the other. I was looking at a detective who's been there for 7-12 years, so he's got 7-12 years of seniority. He's at a maximum of 29,001, and that's the basic salary we're talking about now. And a nurse's basic salary of eight years' seniority: DKK 29,023. These are numbers I've taken from DSR's website and the Police Association's website. It's pretty much the same. I mean, the nurse has to have less seniority before she has the same salary as the policeman. Where is it you see this big inequality in pay levels in the public sector? Does the rapporteur have a concrete figure on what it is on? Because it is just being determined as a truth, i.e. a verifiable thing, and I just need to see the evidence for those numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155802	Well, I think there is a pretty good picture in the pay committee that was set up back in 2008 after another public conflict, and which also emphasised that there are low and equal pay problems in the public sector for some professional groups, for example, where there are cross-border problems. training which is equally long does not get the same in basic salary at all for a start. And that's problematic. Then there have been a lot of figures thrown out in this debate, and I really think that has muddled the picture. Because when you discuss, among other things... It is clear that you have to have some high supplements to go to work at night, and this has simply been done. muddy the picture of what you actually get as a nurse. However, there is evidence and there are plenty of reports and research that support unequal pay among the sexes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155852	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155854	I am just wondering why, when you have an equal pay alliance, you do not refer there to any of the specific figures. So why is there reference to the difference between the public and the private labour market? As I remember the work of 2008, it pointed to a few percentage points that were in difference and which were such inexplicable. I also think that we have a responsibility as politicians to be real about the size of problems. I want to help solve this, because we have a responsibility as an employer. I just need to see those very, very clear numbers. But I hope we can see that when the committee that has now been set up has done its job.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155927	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155929	After all, I am saddened that we have to wait so long, because it has been documented time and again by research, by reports, by the Institute for Human Rights, by the pay committee that was in 2008, that there is a pay gap in the area of several professional groups. So I am sorry that we are going to have to do this again, but hope then that the rapporteur's party will be involved in actually losing money if it is proven once again by the pay structure committee that there is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826155957	Thank you. The next person I would like to give the floor to is Mr Spencer. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160002	Thank you. I have two questions. What amount of money does Enhedslisten think would be enough to make this right? What amount does Enhedslisten think it should be? The second question is: are you going to overthrow a government that does not deliver on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160022	Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160022-2	It is as certain as the amen in the church that we have in the Enhedslisten for enormously many years every year put forward proposals for a low and equal pay pool, and that amount has sounded at 5 billion. kr. I can also answer a question which could be followed up. We propose that it be financed by increasing the share and capital tax to be in line with wage income taxation. I don't think it solves the whole problem of low and equal pay. There have been figures on the field today, which are as high as 15 billion. kr., and I think that is actually real figures, and there I think we should make a plan on the part of the Danish Parliament to solve that problem. But 5 billion. kr. is a place to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160109	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160112	Yeah, and then you didn't answer the other question. You can take it as a requirement to vote in favour of the Finance Act. For Enhedslisten it is certainly not remote. Now I was a little nice to the rapporteur for the SF, because they do indeed also make ultimate demands, but at least Enhedslisten does, and that is why I would like to hear whether this will be an ultimate demand for doing so? The government has been threatened with elections right here on 26 August if it does not deliver on, for example. child poverty. How important is this on a scale, is this also something that can trigger an election, or is it that says the government just no, you vote for a finance bill anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160145	This is extremely important for the Enhedslisten, and we have raised what I mean as late as the last budget debate, and we are going to raise it again because the government is not going to devote a single penny to solving this problem. We haven't given up hope. I think it was in January... ahr, February that I put the question in the Chamber to Mette Frederiksen on the reform of the civil service, and there really was no answer. Now I think the government, at least I hope so, is starting to shake their hands a little, because there have been so many people standing on the street, so we are not giving up. We're going to push the government all we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160220	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160224	Well, it's very interesting that when you're a support party and always use the words it's extremely important, you never really get an answer to how extremely important it is when you try to safely test it. But peace be with it now, because it's basically too serious for it to be all about this game. That's why I just want to ask you the same thing I've asked the others about. That was a good idea, then, let us discuss the financing structure and not just an exact amount, because we have to make a solution that lasts for many years in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160331	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160333	So, I know in the Enhedslisten we have had nothing to do with the removal of the tax collection law, but I fully agree that there should be, and that this is a major problem in the structure, and that it also affects how the Danish model in the public sector is designed. And by the way, I am glad that there is actually a party in the blue block that is willing to also discuss, yes, together with the Danish People's Party, not to forget how the Danish model in the public sector is designed. Because it is, I think, clear to everyone that this strike weapon is not worth much and that the employer side cannot really act when you cannot get any more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160414	Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160415	But thank you for that answer. This is the first time I have had a positive response to the wish to reinstate the tax credit for the regions. Then there is one alliance partner. Yeah. I mean, it's like in Henrik Ipsen's... an enemy of the people... who stands alone... is the strongest person in the world. Now there are two of us. That's great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160437	Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160439	Well, when God and the Socialists stand together, I can't see what it can't be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160447	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. After Enhedslisten it is the Conservative People's Party's turn on the podium. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826160515	It was still quite an alliance that was being formed there. I think it was good that time ran out. Thank you for the floor. Let me start by making it clear that we in the Conservative People's Party support the government's intervention in the conflict, even though we, like everyone else who has the same message, agree that it should never have been necessary. But I'm afraid that's necessary. This conflict has already had quite major consequences. Over 60,000 treatments and operations have been postponed, many because of this conflict. People who live in pain and who had an expectation of being seen in our health care have been disappointed. A backlog of treatment has been created which will take a long time to catch up. There are so many nurses on strike now that every week we prolong the conflict it will take up to 10 weeks to have the hump settled. That is why we need to get the nurses back to work, and that is because they are an important part of our health care system, and that is why we have to get politically involved in this conflict, even if we would have preferred to be without it. Is this a defeat for the Danish model? Yeah, I guess you don't get around it. It is, of course, every time you can't negotiate. But we also have to realise that there was no prospect of an agreement. Agreements in the other areas were successfully closed. There were also many who wanted more in salary and probably more than they got, but they succeeded. On two occasions, it was also believed that the country had a compromise with which the parties could live and with which the nurses' management joined, but which was then overruled. According to the negotiators from the municipalities and the regions, it also made it difficult for them to feel that they had a clear answer from the nurses about what they wanted in concrete terms, other than more. Now the nurses have an appointment that gives them 5.5 per cent. more in salary over the next 3 years. A committee has been set up to look at the structure of wages in the public sector. For us, it has made sense to support the compromise that the nurses' management itself approved. We have a hump with thousands of patients who haven't had the surgery or examination that was planned. It's bad. But it is also bad, and it is also serious if we have a nursing profession that is left demotivated and with no desire to come to work when the time comes again. I understand you're disappointed. This conflict didn't end up in what you had hoped for, had ambitions and worked for. I understand that you are disappointed, but I still hope that the disappointment will lie down and that you will show up at work and make the huge difference you make. But I also respect the fact that you must be allowed to fight on; fortunately, this is how it works in Denmark. You're making a difference to vulnerable people. We will need you in the coming years, when we will also have more elderly people who need care. We also recognise that the time of corona has put our health services under extra pressure. I understand that people have been provoked by gingerbread hearts and what else has been of examples of it. You must have the utmost respect for the efforts that have been made. I am also well aware that there are other conditions in our healthcare system that make it very often necessary to run strongly and that working conditions are not ideal. I hope that is one of the things we can also discuss when discussing a new health agreement. That's what we need. That is not where we can solve everything; I do not think it can make you fully satisfied. I know that there is still a desire for more in the payroll too, but I believe that things can go together. It rarely happens that a settlement cannot be reached. We haven't had that long a conflict in recent times. We have seen no alternative but to put an end to this conflict now for the sake of the many patients, more and more who have been affected by this conflict. Finally, I would like to say that we would like to discuss this further with wage differences and inequalities in the public sector, but I also think that we should discuss this in a proper way. I think we should discuss those jobs where, in the end, we have indirect responsibility or direct responsibility as an employer. I do not think it makes sense to compare wages across the board, i.e. with the private sector, and the figures I have found on this website of the Equal Pay Alliance, which I have mentioned a few times. We have to look in the public sector and then we have to look at whether there is anything structural there, and we are happy to discuss that too. I am not going to stand in advance and promise a blank cheque to solve what might come out of such an investigation. We'll have to discuss that. We Conservatives do not have a fundamental desire for a larger public sector, but, of course, there must be justice in the way we pay. That goes without saying. But I need to see some solid evidence of what seems like a established truth. Well, maybe that's the truth. I just want to see the documentation for it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161021	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are some brief comments. First, it's from Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161028	Yeah, so it's fair enough that there's something you need to see, but then it would be nice if you would actually look for it yourself, so just with a regular google search because there are more reports and analyses and more researchers that I also know would be ready and would actually dress the Conservative People's Party if they took this subject seriously. I have to admit, it's gonna be a little provocative to have to stand here and see this government intervention coming as a thief at night and with support for it. That is not the respect that the rapporteur otherwise says that those affected here in the conflict deserve. This isn't okay with the nurses. It's not okay with the public employees. I have to say. This isn't just the nurses' game. Not just for years, not only for months, but also over the summer holidays, we have come up with proposals for how we could make a solution so that we did not find ourselves in the situation we are in right now. Conservatives say in their proposal that they want 200 more new midwives. Where are they supposed to come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161129	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161130	That is where we have come up with a whole issue in which we also finance the remuneration of the extra midwives. I would just like to ask the rapporteur because now I have found a figure called 13.2%, which is what the equal pay alliance refers to there is an average pay gap between men and women across the public and private sectors: what is the figure for the pay gap in the public sector, the difference between men and women? I would like to hear the rapporteur's response to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161155	Victoria Velasquez, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161156	I seriously believe that if you want to show respect for these professional groups, the least you could do, for example. be to drink a cup of coffee with the alliance that you are talking about, meet with the professional groups it is about. I think this seems completely ridiculous. Frankly, I think that if we really want to do something about the issue of equal pay instead of putting it in a jar and having to wait even longer and say that we would like to look at it later, we should actually act on it and make sure that there is funding for it. I think it is positive that there is a guideline on how to finance it in a proposal, but the money is not here right now. Right now, we don't have a majority in favour of finding this funding. So will you vote in favour of our amendment, which is that we should have a majority, so there is the funding that is needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161242	What a lot of words! What a lot of words came out of the rapporteur's mouth. Did any figures come out of the rapporteur's mouth? No, not a single figure came out of the rapporteur's mouth. The rapporteur could not answer the question: what is the pay gap between men and women in the public sector? I didn't get that figure. I just got a reference that you could easily find that I could just do a simple google search, so I'd get the answer. The rapporteur did not give me the answer. And the lack of answer shows precisely that this needs to be examined more thoroughly. We now have a pay structure committee to do that, and I look forward to seeing the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161316	Thank you. The next person I would like to give the floor to is Mrs Pernille Skipper, also from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161320	This is in all likelihood higher than the 13 per cent that the overall difference is between men and women, but there is research that very clearly demonstrates that the pay hierarchy established in 1969 is in fact today. And this means that employees in occupations that are comparable in terms of length and responsibility are not paid the same in salary, and it is the gender, the historically dominant sex, that has been decisive. It exists; it can be found with a simple google search. And more percentages are not going to do anything. What is crucial for us to be able to deal with this problem is whether we get a figure from the Conservatives on how much money we want to set aside to raise wages. Because the Conservatives want to hire 244 extra midwives? But right now there are a thousand midwives who refuse to take up employment in the public sector. So the jobs are pouring out on the country's birthplaces. You can just take one if you want to be a midwife... you probably don't even have to be very good because there's so much shortage. Then the Conservatives cannot be nice and just acknowledge that all the good that you will do for the birthers and their partners cannot be done until you get the midwives to come back to the trade and that the salary is part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161433	Mette Abildgaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161434	I fully acknowledge that we have pressure on our maternity wards and that we have a huge challenge. I am also looking forward to negotiating this in the autumn, when we in Conservatives have set out the means to recruit more midwives. And then it should be attractive for them to get back into the profession, and we would like to discuss this with them. I also have to say that it is assumed that the figure is guaranteed to be higher than the 13%, but that is not what the latest report came up with in 2008. There it was pointed out that it was a few percent that cannot be explained. So that suddenly it should be higher than 13%, I think something unlikely. But surely we must agree that before we can do political action inside this room, we must do so on a properly informed basis, where we have the same material to work from. This debate today clearly shows that we do not have it. We don't have the common knowledge we need to do this on a case-by-case basis. That is why I cannot answer the question of crowns and ears. We did not put money on higher public sector salaries in our latest draft budget, and I could not imagine that we would be doing so in the next one either. Now we need to clarify this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161536	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161537	What is so interesting about the approach of the Conservatives right now is that the rapporteur expresses an enormous understanding of the frustration of the nurses and enormous understanding of the midwives, and that they are probably not happy enough, and this is probably also a little about pay. However, we do not want to commit ourselves, either in our proposal to improve conditions in the maternity wards today or in the proposal for a citizen to ensure that the consequences of the civil service reform were brought to an end. After all, we will not commit ourselves to actually doing anything about the well-documented unequal pay between the male-dominated and female-dominated professions in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161616	Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161618	Well, the rapporteur or the rapporteur's colleague from the same party has failed to prove to me that there is this well-documented inequality in pay in the public sector. Let me see those numbers! Then we'll talk about it. I mentioned some salaries before compared to our police officers. I do not think I can find many other posts in the public sector where it is much more male-dominated than the police. There it was the nurses who were best placed after 8 years of service better than the police officers, who are the ones we send out when there are terrorist attacks in our country and who we send out to fight when there are fights in Virgin Ane Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161652	Thank you. The next person to speak is Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161656	I think I would just like to say at the outset that it is fair enough that the rapporteur is not convinced by the research that is going on, and that is why we are setting up this pay structure committee. For then we can at least get black and white from their perspective what we need to do in order to make up for these skewed wages, which there are more who believe there are in the public sector. And if you have to, and if it turns out that there are these crooked salaries, then the only way I can see is that some money has to be set aside to correct it. Otherwise there will be some others who will have to go down significantly. Now that you put your hand on the hobby plate with this pay structure committee, will Conservatives help you find that money?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161743	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161744	I just think it's a question that it's almost impossible to answer. Because an analysis work must be started and we do not know the result of the analysis work and we do not know the extent of what they might come up with. I have seen that the SF has been out to devote 2 billion. kr. to this, where most other people looking at this area say they think it's 15-20 billion. kr., it takes. There is, in fact, a slight difference in that assessment. However, no, we do not believe in the Conservative People's Party that the public sector should be a wage leader. We do not think so, and we also have a private sector right now which is so hungry for labour. It is not only in the public sector that it is difficult to fill the posts. During the autumn and winter there were 38,000 posts that could not be filled in private because the hands for it were not there. So it is not only in the public sector that we are lacking the labour force, but it is a problem that we have in general in our society and that demands that we make reforms that increase our labour supply rather than make Arnereformer and other things that reduce our labour supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161840	Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161841	If I were so kind, I think I would buy the argument that the rapporteur would just like to see what the salary structure committee is doing, but I also think it is a little important that the parties that put their hands on the hot plate with the pay structure committee, as well as openly say to the employees, that it is important that it is not just a jam jar, and it will be, of course, if we do not set aside some money to follow its recommendations. I also think that this course of negotiations has shown that the public negotiating model is dysfunctional. In other words, one has always known in some way that it would end here because the municipalities and the regions probably do not have the money to solve this problem. Does the rapporteur agree that the public negotiating model should be looked at? Several people have previously reported this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161920	Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161921	I can actually agree with that. Nor do I think it has worked ideally, and in this way I fully recognise that there is something in relation to the structural aspects of the public sector, in relation to the way in which wage formation takes place, because supply and demand do not follow each other. I fully acknowledge that there is a structural element there which I think we need to look at. I have not answered exactly how, but I think it is interesting to discuss further, also on the basis of this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161950	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats who have asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826161954	However, it is a little interesting that Conservatives do not have an answer to that, since Conservatives have been very keen to see the regions closed down. Then you must have thought through some form of handling, for example. negotiations on the pay situation in health care between some parties. Who are the parties, if not the dysfunctional system that is today, namely that it is the pay-rate commission governed by the Ministry of Finance and the Modernisation Board that is doing the negotiations? Yeah, I know it's Mr. Knox. Kühnau, who sits and makes the negotiations, but it's just per. Deputy. What, then, is the solution? If we have done so much to ensure that these regions are abolished and if we now recognise that it is dysfunctional, then we must have thought through a solution for how it will work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162049	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162050	I was so looking forward to being asked whether I thought that the regions should have the opportunity to pay taxes, as all my fellow Members have been asked, but the rapporteur, after all, thought that was too easy a question and too easy to give an answer to. After all, this dysfunctional situation does not only apply to nurses, but it also applies to other professional groups who are employed elsewhere in the public sector, where we have also seen conflicts and where we could also imagine conflicts in the future. So I do not think it can be isolated here simply to be a question of the regions and the existence of the regions, but rather the way we negotiate in general in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162128	Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162130	But now we just have a very specific issue, and it is worth all the honour and respect that you want to have some documentation and excelark to look at, but if you just take a reality check and look up at our visitors' seats and have been watching this for a long time, you can see that there is a problem, and that is not a new problem. And there I am just saying that I am surprised that there are so many people standing on the speaking chair of the Folketing and do not think they have a solution that they can come up with, since we have been discussing it for so long and, incidentally, had the discussion quite thoroughly in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162206	Mette Abildgaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162207	I stand in all sorts of ways and look up at the gallery. It has become a little easier to see the crowd of people up there in the course of our debate, which has been for hours now, but I really hope that we can afford to have such an open democracy and so open an exchange of views that we can also sometimes recognise that we have not answered everything and that we have to discuss it further. Because I can easily follow those who are left frustrated with a feeling that it would probably end here because there was a deadlock in the negotiating situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162239	Thank you. The last person who has asked to speak on this occasion is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162244	Thank you. I am taking the floor because I am actually a little upset by the harsh tone that Mrs Abildgaard is displaying. I don't think the nurses deserve it. I remember when we were standing with Conservatives that we weren't going to take any legal action against the doctors. But is it because it was private practice that Conservatives then wouldn't do it, or was it because it was doctors? Aren't nurses in another group that you try to take care of in the same way? We have a healthcare system that must work, but it may be because you just want to privatise the entire healthcare system that Conservatives have had in the past. I am surprised that you have the hard tone and say that all of a sudden it is all sorts of other things and equality and something like that. I would say that I do not care whether it is men or women who work, but I believe that when you go to work in such a working environment as there is in our hospital world, cares about our sick, about our elderly, when you have stood on the front during a corona epidemic, and then show the payrolls that you are doing today, make that impression. Does it not at all do that on the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162348	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162350	I do not think it is quite fair for Mrs Liselott Blixt to say that I have had a tough tone with the nurses, because I have never had that in my speeches here. I have had a tough tone with those who claimed that there were clear figures for wage differences between men and women in the public sector and not across the public and private labour markets. I've been very clear there, because there isn't. I have very much respect for the nurses. It's been less than half a day since I last needed a nurse. I had to call 1813 with a child with 40.5 fever and history of fever cramps, and a nurse helped me amazingly. I have great respect for the nurses. When we did not want to intervene in the conflict that was with the doctors then, it was because it was much less about pay, but about self-determination to have its clinic and the whole setup that we salute in Denmark, with our family doctors who for us Conservatives are quite crucial and who take responsibility for developing a good clinic in the community with families who have the same doctors and the same medical center and sometimes for many generations. This was a completely different debate at the time, and it was much less about pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162452	Here you go, Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162454	I would just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that listening to this sounds as if you do not want to give a higher salary to nurses, because you think they get enough compared to everyone else, because there is no evidence that they are getting less. That is what leaves me sitting here, and that is what I think is a pity, that is, if that is what the nurses are experiencing in the same way, and then I think it is a sad development. And then I can see that that's why you go along with this legislative action and don't want to try to make a binding agreement that we would have wanted to join in this. But you didn't want that because you don't want to add money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162530	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162531	I think it is so extremely populist, I have to say, to stand here in Parliament and promise high salaries for specific employee groups. I just have to say it the way it is. And then it will be the nurses, because it is a group that we all have great respect for, huge empathy for, but there are a lot of other groups in our health services that we might also be able to discuss. There are radiographs and they don't earn as much as the health care cores, but no one knows what they're basically doing. I think it is unspeakable that we should stand here at Christiansborg and define the salaries and, frankly, I think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162559	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party. We need to get the alcohol off before we welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, who is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826162618	Thank you. The nurses would like more in their pockets for the work they do. I understand that, and we in New Citizens fully agree with it, just as the educators, the sosus, the carpenters, the shop assistants, the warehouse workers, and, yes, the list goes on. They also deserve to get more out of their labor and the hours they spend away from the family. Fortunately, the policy of the New Citizens' Party is such that there will be, for example: a nurse has approximately 2 500 to 3 000 kroner. more in your pocket, not a year, but a month. All it takes is for politicians to stop with their greed and have a little respect for citizens' tax dollars. So we share fully and fully understand the nurses' desire to get more out of work. That's the payroll. We will solve this by making genuine bourgeois policy from in here, and we believe that is actually the responsibility that the Folketing should shoulder. However, I do not believe that only giving more in the pocket solves all the challenges facing health care. It solves some of them, and everyone can get more. But when I talk to nurses out there, and I often do, also because my girlfriend is a nurse, it's very much about the working environment. It's about having the feeling of not tacking at all times and about what may be just enough. It's about being able to give, and it's about being able to use your professional skills on patients and relatives. It's about being able to develop and not always neck after. Then it's also about the very low-practical: to have time to go to the bathroom and to have lunch and to be able to come home to the family at fairly fixed times, i.e. to be able to have a day-to-day hanging together. There is therefore a huge amount of work involved, which I hope the regions will start to take much more seriously. We must call for the end of IT scandal systems which cannot talk together and for patient transitions between regions, but also to municipalities. These documentation requirements need to be tidyed up and questions must be asked whether the regions should continue to patch themselves up with more academics for administrative work. Perhaps they should start to bet a little more on the people on the floor and listen to the nurses in the sections, because they are the ones who are suffering, they are the ones who are too hard pressed, and they are the ones who find it difficult to make family life stick together. When the nurses on the floor suffer and they do not thrive, the patients will suffer, and that is bad politics for the whole society. Then it is fine for a committee to be set up to look at wages; we think so. But it cannot stand alone, and it must not be left alone. There is also a challenge about the working environment, about stress and about pressure that needs to be addressed now and here, otherwise the upcoming adjustments, which may happen in a few years' time, will become tiny in relation to the challenges that you will face. So my call today is for the government to take on the regions and put pressure on the work on the working environment to begin now. We don't have to wait 2-3 years for a committee to finish. Then I'd like to address the political a little bit. After all, the support parties have the opportunity to bring this into the Finance Act. They have been able to do that last year and last year, and they can do it this time. They can even put it as a requirement to the government. That has not been done, and I do not think it will be an ultimate demand this time either. Now I heard the rapporteur for the SF say that SF does not use that with ultimate requirements. Sorry, it's in good Jutland once nonsense, because if there's something SF has excelled in before the election, it's making ultimate demands. I can only quote Pia Olsen Dyhr: we do not support a financial law unless we succeed in setting minimum standards and in removing the abolition of the ceiling on cash benefits. So, of course you do. The Enhedslisten does it too. But when it comes to the matter, it probably ends up that now you've got the prize to the nurses, and then there are other things that you choose to give priority to the Finance Act. That's what happens most of the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826163129	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. We need to get the alcohol off before the rapporteur goes. The next rapporteur is LA's rapporteur. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826163149	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance will vote in favour of the bill without any pleasure, because the fact that the Danish Parliament has to tell us what the agreement should be like in the labour market is not something we like as a starting point. The social partners must find out for themselves. But when you are dealing with something that is so important as that people who are sick can get their treatment and can also get it at a time that is not too late, so far too much of their lives are destroyed; and when we are dealing with a sector in Denmark that has been so monopolised by one employer, the regions, and one employee organisation, the Danish Nursing Council, so that there is virtually no other way to go to if you are ill than to go to this area, which is thus burdened by a strike, we think it is necessary to do what we are doing here with this intervention. We must also say that the whole debate on whether nurses are paid too little or too much is a little over our heads. A nurse earns an average in the vicinity of 41,000 kroner. a month, if he or she has a full-time job and if you count the employer's pension. Whether it is too much or too little, you can probably have different opinions about it, but what matters to us is that there is no exact measure of what a salary should be. The salary must be such that you can attract the manpower that is needed. When carpenters in Denmark earn what they now serve, it is because there would not be enough carpenters available for the demand that is on carpenters' work if they did not have that level of pay. And it is the case in all sectors of the private sector that wages are set after the employer must be able to attract the labour needed and, moreover, must also be able to earn a penny to get the company running around. In the public sector, we also have to say that if you can get enough staff for a job with a given salary to get the job done in a good way, then those who pay the salaries of the public employees should pay no more than that. It's all of us who pay taxes. Surely it is not the case that the public sector should pay more than what can be given if you want the people you need to be employed. Well, it's not like if we can get all the nurses we need for just over 41,000 kroner. a month, we suddenly have to give them 45,000 kroner. or 50,000 kroner. It is, of course, an overpayment in relation to what is necessary to pay. Therefore, there is no objectively real wage. So all that talk about that group getting so much and the other group getting something more or less and that it is also deeply unfair for the group that gets too little is not right. It's not like that anywhere. There are no jobs where you can say that these people serve exactly the same as these people, and if they don't, it's deeply unfair. All jobs are then different paid and therefore the whole premise of this discussion is really very strange and indeed political pressure rather than a discussion of what is needed to get work done. Some say they get too little because they belong to a particular group. No, you get what it takes to attract the necessary manpower. Then we must also say, on the other hand, that if there is a shortage of labour, if there is a shortage of nurses in the future, then there are some employers who need to get up and make sure that there is an increase in wages. But it is not my job to assess it. That is not the task of the Folketing either. That is the job of the employers. It is, of course, primarily the task of the regions to assess: can they, with the wage level that is today, attract the nurses needed tomorrow? There are then some who say that it is mixed with the government and that it is also the government that brings the money and so on. Yes, okay, but then it is up to the government, together with the regions, to find out whether the wage level is sufficient to attract enough nurses, but that is certainly not the job of the Folketing. It's not. We are not the employers in this case. We are legislators, and we would rather not make laws on wages. So, for all these reasons, we are voting in favour of the draft law, which is under discussion here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826163640	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826163656	Thank you. This has been a rather strange debate here today, because we need to have just in place what the Danish model is really about. It is the prerogative of the current government to be able to intervene on the basis of the analyses it makes of the consequences of a conflict. That is the case today, and it has always been the case, and it is then up to the parties of the Folketing to decide whether or not to support the intervention which per year will take place. The definition will almost always be such that the mediation proposal that lies is exalted to the law, precisely so that there will be no parliamentary debate on how much money there will then be. And because, in principle, it should be the case that you cannot speculate that the Folketing has to deal with it, in other words speculate in a conflict in order to get more money. And that's why I think those attacks on the government may be a bit harsh and not quite fair in this context. See, I have been brought up so politically that you always vote in favour of a financial law because the state must have a budget and that you also vote in favour of intervention in a conflict if the government considers that the consequences of the conflict are too severe. And then you're in a difficult situation here, because when do you have to use your emergency rights? And when can we even talk about emergency law without it being a distortion of proportion? In the KD, we're voting for the government to make this intervention through urgent procedure, because we think it's the government's prerogative. However, we cannot vote in favour of the legislative proposal. And it is quite simple because for a very long time, and I personally, we have been trying to point out for several years that we have structural funding problems in relation to our health services. And I have pointed them out several times, including during this debate. I myself have a huge share of responsibility for this, and if you do not want to stick to the legacy and debt of politics and then do something about the debt that exists, then you have to hurry home. That is why we are not saying in the draft law that a new financing structure should also be looked at and more money needed. That is absolutely crucial. There's two leads in this. One is the money, but the other is how we view our health care. I have sometimes used the word sausage factory in this debate, and this is because we have managed to set up our health services based on such new management methods that affect where the management layer is in relation to the workflows in the departments, which also creates a lot of frustration. And that is why we simply need to rethink some of the things we have done over the past 15 to 20 years, recognising that there are some of the old virtues that we have washed out with the bathing water. And I don't see that will being tied up anywhere in this bill, i.e. a will to take this basic discussion, either of the economy or the way we organize our health care, so we get away from the sausage factory idea that we've got politically, about how to run health care. That is why I and we in the KD cannot support the draft law that exists today. It is a little difficult to say, because I think it is a responsibility that should be taken as a starting point: support it when a government comes and says that the consequences are too serious. But we simply fear that such a pay structure committee will not lead to anything when there are no constraints that we will also add extra money to it. And we think the government should consider that. As I have said before, if you want to change the world, you have to start with yourself. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826164204	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826164209	I have such a slightly clearing question. After all, the regions have the opportunity today to decide how to fill the various posts. There has been an increase of 2,000 academic posts in the last 7 years. Where does the limit go, in relation to what it is the Folketing should decide on the way to spend the funds and what the regions should do? Well, how much do we have to go in and get involved? After all, there will be some health structure negotiations later, hopefully this autumn, when we will have to go in and look at it. But how much does KD think you should go down and go down in detail with the regions and what you need to do with this health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826164254	Well, we don't want to run retail at all, we want exactly the opposite. We want to decentralise, we want to free the municipalities by removing the service ceiling and by removing the tax freeze for the municipalities so that they can decentrally reconcile expectations with the level of service that is there and we want to free our regions. And we can only do that if it is the case that the regions are also given the opportunity to reconcile it themselves through tax collection where they have the opportunity to maneuver. The truth is that we have witnessed a pseudo-debate, and it is not the nurses' fault. It is simply the structure that is such that the regions have had no room for manoeuvre whatsoever, regardless of whether they have had the mind to meet the needs of nurses. We cannot go on like this, because all the agreements in here end up on the table of the Danish Parliament, and we have to take stock of that. So we do not want to regulate in detail, we want to do the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826164356	Thank you. Here you have the floor, you do not take the floor, but it is good enough to be eager. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826164402	Does KD think that it is best to do it at regional level, or should it be done at cluster level, or should it go down in relation to these super hospitals and hospitals, i.e. how far does decentralisation go? Is it just for the regions? Because there is also much difference within the regions, perhaps in relation to how much they need to attract the right workforce in that hospital and in that hospital, that is, where there are more hospitals in each region. So does it have to go down to hospital where each hospital has a room for manoeuvre in order to attract the labour force, or is it only at regional level?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826164441	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826164442	But the regions have to decide this in the first place, i.e. the degree of decentralization that they want to have in their institutions. I am very much in favour of a great deal of freedom in the institutions, but that is not where wage formation can be done in this way. Then we have to abandon the whole idea of collective agreements, and I am not mad at that. I would like to strengthen the regions... strengthen them in such a way that when they are responsible for the negotiations and they are responsible for the implementation of our health care, they must also be able to control the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826164517	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no more brief comments. After the KD's rapporteur, Mr. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826164544	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that the Free Greens did not support an urgent procedure and will not support the legislative action either. I would also like to announce that we in the Free Greens will retable the proposal to abolish the civil service reform, so that Parliament will once again have the opportunity to put an end to the fundamental inequality. It's a sad day today. It is for at least two reasons. The first reason is that the government, together with a large majority today, is failing nurses. These are the nurses we all choired a short time ago called corona heroes, we called them welfare heroes, but today we are throwing them under the bus. Sosus, midwives and nurses, whose profession belongs to the women's domination professions, have long called out about their poor working conditions, their poor wages, they want to have a fight with the civil service reform. Well nurses we hear daily telling that they will have to run fast, really fast, that they will get more and more work and more and more tasks that they will have to solve. We know there's a lot of stress among nurses, I think it's one in six nurses who experience stress. These are the people who are there for all of us when we need it most. These are the people who are there for us when our loved ones get sick and the world bumps around us and we can't find any hope and we can't see any hope. Then it's the people, the people who are there for us. Today they are asking for help. They're asking for help. They say: Appreciate our work, meet our demands, give us a proper salary. But I believe that the Folketing, the government and some of the support parties, as I have said, are failing the nurses today. The second reason why it is a really, really sad day today is that our nurses are being let down under a red government, under a social democratic government that should stand up for the nurses, and I have also expressed my dissatisfaction that the SF and the Radical Left supported this urgent procedure, because in my optics it de facto means that the government cannot be forced to the negotiating table and thus support the legislative action and abandon our nurses. This is happening at the same time under a social democratic government where we could find 19-20 billion. kr. to a mink deal. Some of the parties in here with the government just found 64 billion. kr. to make new asphalt roads, highways, more concrete too. During the Corona crisis, 100 billion people were found out of thin air. kr. to give to business, and we can't find a few billion kroner for our nurses. Frankly, I would urge all parties, and especially those on the left, to vote against this legislative measure, and then I think that a single left wing should sit down, look itself in the eye and say: what kind of clue are we going out of, and how far will we let the government go? I have a miraculous hope that people will use the night to think about how great a failure it is that we are exposing our nurses to and that they will ensure that they vote sensibly tomorrow. Free Greens cannot support the legislative action.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826165045	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826165050	Yeah, I think it deserves that. I just need to know if the Greens think it's the Folketing in here who has to dictate the salary of every group out there. That is, in fact, what they said by saying that we should pay the nurses more. So, is it only the nurses that should be decided what should be paid, or is it also for teachers, it is also for educators; is it the Folketing that has to take over the task and perform it? It is not a polemical question; it is just because that is what the rapporteur is actually proposing to do here, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826165121	Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826165122	When we tabled a motion for a resolution on the reform of the civil service, it was because we know that although we no longer employ civil servants, the hierarchy established in 1969, when we had a crazy view of women here in Denmark, is still part of the collective bargaining system we have. So there is a fundamental inequality when midwives, nurses and other female-dominated professional groups go in and negotiate wages. What we in the Greens are saying is that it was a politically agreed reform, so we must also take political action to resolve it. That is why we must find the money needed to eliminate the fundamental inequality, and then we must find out for ourselves among the parties how to negotiate with each other. But the crucial thing is that the negotiating basis should not be unequal, should not be wrong; that is what we have to balance out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826165229	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826165232	But what if, once they've distributed the money, there's still inequality out there? Nobody says they're gonna distribute the money straight. Well, if you give them the money and say that now they can distribute the money, I guess they're the ones who decide how they share the money. I would also like to ask: could you not just point out where the 15-20 billion will be found? kr., like this cost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826165247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826165248	When we give it money, it must of course go to the low-paid, to the women-dominated professions, where we know that the hierarchy goes in and hits. In addition, I just feel that when the Folketing can find 64 billion. kr. for motorways and 100 billion for motorways. kr. We can of course also find the billions that are needed to offset this inequality. We could, for example. tax the tech giants, we could make a wealth tax, we could make a housing tax, the big multinationals could take a greater responsibility, the rich could pay more...
ParlaMint-DK_20210826165325	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique! Time's up. There are no more brief comments. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. And so it's time for the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826165352	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the rapporteurs and all the parties of the Danish Parliament for a thorough and, of course, committed debate. And I would also like to thank the Danish Parliament as an institution, and here again the parties for the goodwill that has been shown to deal urgently with this bill, which aims to end the very long conflict in the nursing sector. Just to make it clear that there are several people who have mentioned it today, but I would also like to emphasise it: the situation we are facing today has no winners. Taking legislative action in a legal labour dispute is serious, and it is a really difficult decision for the government and for the parties of the Folketing. The debate today also shows this with great clarity. It is difficult because the vast majority of us in here have a basic confidence in our labour market model. Over the years, we have safeguarded, cared for and protected a strong Danish tradition, where the social partners negotiate the agreements. Our labour market model is thus a guarantee that we have a regulated and proper labour market with good wages and good working conditions, and it is a huge, huge strength not only for the social partners, employees and Danish companies, but also for the whole of Denmark as a society. We have a belief and expectation that the parties to a conflict will sooner or later find each other and agree on a solution that their members can also support. Unfortunately, however, we can find ourselves in a situation where the parties to the conflict cannot find a solution and where the cost of the conflict is so great for the citizens that we have to face each other and ask the very important question: will we allow the conflict to continue with ever greater consequences for the citizens, or will we intervene with legislative action? In other words, a legislative measure is part of our Danish model of agreement when negotiation opportunities are exhausted and when the consequences for society have become too great. In the current situation, it has become apparent that the parties themselves could not find a solution themselves, unfortunately. Both the Danish Nursing Council, the Danish Regions and the National Association of Municipalities have made it quite clear to the government and myself that the situation is deadlocked. The parties themselves therefore consider the negotiation possibilities to be exhausted and the Government has taken note of this. At the same time, we have been following the situation closely in our health services. The conflict has been going on for some 10 weeks now and is therefore also the longest conflict in recent times, and the conflict has had significant consequences for health care, and they would also now rapidly increase in the weeks to come. For each week the strike continues, the hump is extended by another 10 weeks, and it is the Danish Health Authority's assessment that the operating rooms are now about half power. The coating grows, several finished products are not printed, and it hits, for example. elderly medical patients because they do not get started with their rehabilitation. And we have reached a point where more and more people will have their treatment postponed, and the strike would also be further extended in the coming weeks. At the same time, of course, we have a health service that is naturally characterised by corona management, and we also look into an autumn with a possible flu epidemic. In other words, the situation is serious and, overall, we consider that it is untenable to allow the conflict to continue. The government has therefore put forward a bill to the Danish Parliament aimed at ending the conflict so that the work of our health services can be resumed as soon as possible. With the bill, we are elevating the conciliation officer's proposal to law, and it is also a well-known practice from previous legislative measures. This means that the agreements for nurses will be renewed until 31 March 2024, as has been agreed in the other public sector. The renewal shall take place with the amendments and under the conditions set out in the Conciliation Committee's mediation proposal of 18 May 2021 and also recommended by the negotiating committees of both Parties. Thus, the draft law is, as far as possible, within the framework agreed by the parties themselves. And I would like to emphasise that the government is safeguarding that wage formation in the public labour market is done by agreement between the parties. We must also remember that all the other professional groups have concluded agreements on working conditions for the next three years, negotiated agreements, to which they have also voted in favour by a large majority. However, the government recognises that there is a need to look at wage structures in the public sector. That is why the government will set up as soon as possible the pay structure committee, which is also supported by the parties to the conflict. The Committee shall provide a common basis for the further discussions of the public parties at forthcoming collective bargaining. And, as the draft law indicates, the social partners will be involved in the preparation of the terms of reference of the committee, and the terms of reference will also be presented to the parties who can support the bill. To all the hard-working employees in the public sector, I would like to say quite clearly that there are no winners here, but we also belong to what you have tried to say through strike and through support for the strikers. It is about pay, it is about a pressed everyday life, it is about lack of colleagues, it is about working conditions, and it is about the whole basis of our welfare. The government will continue to take this very, very seriously, and we will continue to give priority to this in our continued work as long as the electorate has confidence in us and entrusts us with the task of sitting in government. Finally, I would like to thank Parliament once again for being accommodating in the face of an urgent debate on the legislative proposal. That makes great demands, I know, on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs too. And I hope for good committee consideration and, of course, make myself available in both writing and speech to the extent necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170049	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170053	The minister keeps saying, there are no winners in this case. I agree with the Minister, but it is the government's fault. For now there are a whole lot of losers, who are not only nurses, midwives, educators, sosus, physiotherapists, all those who lack equal pay, but also our welfare society and thus all of us. Because we have a huge problem in the welfare society: we lack hands. We're already having a hard time recruiting employees, and this isn't going to make it any easier. I therefore believe that the only thing that could actually mean something right now was that the Minister stood on the platform and said that the Minister will find some money when there are results from this pay structure committee, which will of course point out that there is an equal pay problem. So will the Minister find some money for this problem for our welfare community?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170157	Well, I would like to start by saying to Mrs Mai Villadsen that we do not disagree so much that we have challenges in our welfare society. We have challenges, in the sense that there are many people working in the public sector and in the front line in providing the welfare services and the welfare services that we are all so happy about, who are under pressure, who have lost codecision over and with the organisation of their work and who are also experiencing pressure in every way possible, and that, moreover, there has been an under-investment in our welfare societies for quite a number of years. After all, all these things are something that we jointly address step by step and have addressed since the government changed back in June 2019. We invest a lot more in our welfare societies. Several rapporteurs have pointed out that it has been the most extensive investment in the welfare society over the last 10 years. We have also agreed jointly to allocate money to the recruitment of thousands more nurses, and we will of course continue to devote more competences and more participation to the employees also through our proximity reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170304	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170305	But it is precisely because we are dealing with a social democratic government, which I actually thought would be the welfare society, which has actually invested billions in health care, in the welfare system, that I am so frustrated in this situation. For this is to do exactly the opposite; one simply tears the foundations of the welfare society apart by not giving proper working conditions and a proper salary to the employees, and the government has a responsibility in this matter. That is why I hope that the Minister will actually answer my question: does money come with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170341	I did not make it, but I built up to answer the rapporteur's question, and I would like to answer that. I am unable and the government is not in a position to respond in advance to what the pay structure committee is going to conclude. What I can say, on the other hand, is that we take the pay structure committee very, very seriously, and we do so for several reasons. We do this firstly because it is something that the parties themselves have agreed, and it was even in the outline that the Danish Nursing Council also helped to recommend, and it is a proposal on behalf of the FO, and secondly because we can also actually see that we have some challenges in the public sector, which I think can also be addressed. But it is not certain that everything is addressed by politicians providing money solutions. A great deal of the solutions I think are also going to point out that, within the collective bargaining process itself, there is also a need for adjustments to be made between the various groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170431	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170433	First of all, I am actually just sorry that the Social Democrats have not used their parliamentary basis to make a solution that ensures more equal pay in the public sector. Well, we actually had the opportunity. There is, of course, a majority, even in this Chamber, if the Social Democrats were to take part in it, which has indicated that they would like to take a look at it. After all, none of the parties imagine that everything you want is just going to get your way, but I hear the will to make up for the high wages, which is why I am surprised that the Social Democrats have joined forces with the bourgeois people here. It's just a vexation to say it plainly. I also think that this has shown that the Danish model in the public sector is dysfunctional. You've known it was gonna end here. It has been known that this conflict could not be resolved without additional money being put on the table and government intervention. We have in fact written in the paper of understanding together with the other parties behind the fact that you have to look at the public model and see if you can change it so that it becomes more functional so that there are no these conflicts and the employer is not too strong in the debate. Will the government be in on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170539	I just want to start by correcting one thing: it has not worked in the way that the government has joined forces with the bourgeois parties and made an agreement on how this should be put together. Well, we've been sitting very, very passively for up to 10 weeks and watching this conflict. To be honest, it has been our last wish to intervene in the conflict, but both sides have also said very clearly in public, in letters and at the meeting we had with the parties yesterday that a negotiated solution could not be reached. That is why we think that the most reasonable thing is when there is a conciliation sketch which both organisations on each side of the table have also recommended and agreed to, so as to exalt it to law, as has been done in the past. It also gives nurses concrete wage increases in line with what the other public servants have negotiated and voted in favour of, and these are wage increases that overall provide a framework of 1.1 billion. kr. extra for the nurses, and what corresponds to, I have been informed, on average 2,000 kr. More. It is easy to think so, and I respect that if you think that is too little, in relation to what you wanted, but it is not true that nurses do not experience wage increases with the mediation sketch.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170654	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170655	After all, no one claims that nurses do not receive an increase in wages. What is merely a fact is that the decades-long unequal pay that has been paid in the public sector is not being corrected, and the Minister knows very well that it is a wish not only from nurses but widely among the professional groups to change this. What just puzzles me when we can do so many things together, the support parties and the government, and both Radicals, SF and Enhedslisten have said that you will help to correct these salaries and that you want to find funding is why the government has not tried. Why have we not been summoned and tried to find funding before joining the bourgeoisie? That would have been the best thing if you wanted to change the odd pay that is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170734	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170736	It is, among other things. Because we cannot answer what, if need be, is to be financed, how much is to be financed and what are some buttons to be screwed on. Nor can we answer in advance what consequences this will have on, for example, the regulation system and the interaction with the private agreements, which the public employees are so happy about precisely in the regulation system and which, historically, has helped to ensure high wage increases for public employees in line with what is being achieved in the private sector. Nor can we answer all the questions which, of course, are the consequences of what Mr. Jacob Mark asks what that also means between the different groups of public servants. That is why our best answer has been to say that we are now taking the pay structure committee which the parties themselves have recommended and which, moreover, the trade union movement itself has called for to be set up to shed light on this at the core.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170830	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170831	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister. The minister says in his speech that there is no winner. The minister also says that the minister hears the nurses. Why don't we turn the nurses into winners? It's up to us, isn't it? As things stand now, it is up to us to decide. Let's turn these nurses, these corona heroes, these welfare heroes into winners. Let's sit down and negotiate an agreement that meets the nurses' demands. We say that they have been corona heroes and that they have been crucial, because while there have been corona and we have been sitting at home safe, they have been out there for the whole society and for all of us. Just that situation means you should look at it once again to see if there's anything we can do here. So I just don't understand why we don't just make nurses winners here. I would like to know what the reason is for the government not to give a penny. I simply do not understand a social democratic government! Let's turn the nurses into winners here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826170939	First of all, I would like to say to Mr. Sikandar Siddique, that the government is not the nurse's counterpart in this negotiating situation. It has been the regions and the National Association of Municipalities. Secondly, they have in any case been able to follow this in the press several times during this strike also asked what the specific requirements are for a negotiated solution. I do not know what has been said about the negotiating table, because I have not been sitting there, but I have noted that it has been called for. Thirdly, there are many corona heroes. The Sosu assistants, who have said yes to their negotiated solution, are also Corona heroes, there are a large number of other public servants who have also been severely pressured, who have said yes to their negotiated solution and who are also Corona heroes. So if you have the point of view, as Mr. Sikandar Siddique also has to answer how much it is that one wants to give in wage increases to one group or another. We in the government disagree in principle that the Folketing and the government should make themselves a negotiating party in the public labour market agreements. We want to help look at the structures, but we do not believe that it is Parliament's job to negotiate wages with public sector employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171100	Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171101	But it was a Parliament that did the civil service reform, it was a political intervention that made this fundamental inequality. And yes, it is the view of the Free Greens that all the women's dominated professions should be looked at and guaranteed equal pay for them. For one thing, the nurses are, but another is that the government wants more nurses, but we hear the nurses say that they will disappear, because they will not be able to do so, and it will affect the whole health system, and it will ultimately be more expensive. So I simply have to understand the logic of why, when you are making a political intervention, you do not ensure that these corona heroes will of course get proper working conditions and proper pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171149	In short, and frankly, I and the government are not able to answer what kind of buttons and handles need to be pressed or turned on to reach where Sikandar Siddique wants to be. Because it can't be done, it's not an option. As I've also heard, sir. Mr Sikandar Siddique has said several times that the reform of the civil service must be abolished, but we cannot abolish anything that no longer has any legal effect whatsoever. On the other hand, I would like to acknowledge that there may be some structural differences. Structural differences can be both politically determined, but they are also largely the result of both priorities and interaction between groups of public servants in the many collective bargaining that have been going on over the years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171236	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171237	This may sound like a rather trivial question, but can the Minister not confirm that the state has only one budget and that what is to be spent on must be included in a budget law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171255	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171257	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171259	Thank you. Can the Minister then perhaps explain some of the money spent in the Enhedslisten and in the SF, where they say that it will not be put on the Finance Act, because it does not belong in the Finance Act. Does that make any sense to the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171315	I do not want to go in and judge when and in what context the wishes and demands are made. In general terms, I would say that the Finance Act is a nearby place to make demands, but it is clear that from time to time we also have negotiations where we try to solve some problems and where we then agree to solve them by pointing out funding and so on. What makes this matter complicated is that there is also an impact on wage formation between different groups of public employees, depending on the type of demands they make. Do they claim the basic salary? Do they require supplements? Do they receive nominal or percentage increases? What, moreover, is the link between wage increases in the private sector? All of this is super complicated, but it plays a very important role when it is that the public employees and, incidentally, all the groups should have better conditions and better wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171413	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171414	Thank you for that, and thank you also for the great interest in Enhedslisten's policy. The minister says the government is not the nurse's counterpart. But can the Minister not explain to the rest of us who decides the framework for the negotiation of public contracts? Who decides how much money is for this? Who is it that sits on the largest cash box in the political system here? Is it the regions, or is it the Minister's government colleague?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171447	There are quite a number of different mechanisms that help define the framework, and it is of course clear that it is ultimately politically determined. But some of the things that help define the framework are also what wage developments are like in the private labour market, and precisely the mechanism is something that public employees have both historically enjoyed, fought for and, by the way, gained a great deal from.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171509	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171510	But what just puzzles me when the government doesn't want to be the nurses' counterpart and doesn't see itself as the nurses' counterpart is why you don't play with them and ensure a solution here. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard is both Minister for Employment and Minister for Gender Equality, and I would actually say that the minister on the platform right now is the most obvious person to resolve this conflict. We can then discuss whether this belongs in a financial bill debate, but I think that right now it has a lot to do with an equal opportunities minister and an employment minister, when nurses have just struck for equal pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171551	Now I am asking a perhaps difficult question. Does Rosa Lund have any idea what it took to reach a negotiated solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171610	That is what is a little difficult when it is the last round of questions, i.e. there is no way of following up. The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171620	I think that this debate on the subject of men and women is a little mistaken, and I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister's view is that there is a difference in public opinion between what men and women get for the same position and for the same job.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171648-2	I think we should be honest and say that, in general terms, this is something that VIVE has helped to uncover: pay differences between men and women. An important part of this is, of course, that there are gender differences in jobs and professions, that there are gender differences in educational choices and that there is something that sits down because we take different lengths of maternity leave. But I would also like to reject at all the discussion that has taken place on some historical issues that have affected the structures. What I am just saying, however, and which must be an essential part of the discussion, is, of course, that the priorities that certain groups of public servants have put forward over the past 30 years, and perhaps even up to 40 years, have also played a role, and how, moreover, within the negotiating communities in which they have been negotiated, it has been agreed that the framework should fall out. I have not been at the negotiating table again, but I have been able to read to the press and it may be a rumor, and it may be wrong to try to give, among other things. the nurses higher pay increases, but that the other groups turned the thumb down to it. I do not know if that is true, but it points out that there are some things that need to be resolved and discussed in their entirety between the parties, both on the same side and with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171808	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171809	I very much agree with that, and it can be said that a group such as the prison guards falls completely outside. Because it's a typical male subject, but you can see, if you look at that list, that they're lower paid. So that is also why I welcome this committee that is going to look at this very, very, very welcome, and I also hope that we can, fortunately, share in the fact that we are looking at the history, that is to say, at the previous agreements, as the minister rightly says there have been. What have the individual trade unions been aiming for? What has been important for them to reach where there are some differences in basic salaries in the various sectors? So I hope we can get that into that committee too. In any case, it must be an input from the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171848	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171849	The honest answer is that this is super-complicated... it's just to be perfectly honest... why we put a lot of emphasis on the pay structure committee ourselves. What has been pointed out is that I was also able to read in the press, while the discussion has been going on over the last 10 weeks, that wage developments have also taken the view that some groups in the negotiations have called for and given priority to the increases, while other groups have given priority to the development of basic salaries. Of course, all these things must also be seen in a context, and that also gives us here at Christiansborg and the parties themselves a chance to correct any imbalances that may exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171929	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826171931	If you have to say something positive in this very difficult situation, it is, of course, that the willingness of nurses to fight has shown how important the issue is, and that is also why we are sitting here at the seventh hour, or how much it is, today. What is important is to get an explanation from the Minister as to why we have not been prepared at any time to solve the very specific problem. We are talking about a historically unequal salary by making available not a certain amount, but a statement of a willingness to help solve it through some more money. Because if you do not do that, you will, and the Minister must confirm that, in the situation of asking the women's professions concerned to pull money out of the pockets of the other professions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172021	I think that is actually a very, very constructive introduction from Jette Gottlieb, because what I have heard so far is that one wants the government to set aside a certain amount and a certain framework, and that by its very nature we find it very, very difficult, at a time when we do not know the nature or extent of the challenge. However, I would like to say that the government has, but we also think it is important that this should come about because I think it would point out that there is also a great deal, and indeed a significant part, that will be up to the parties themselves to resolve in the way they prioritise in the negotiations and in the demands they make in the negotiations. In other words, we also know that nominal wage increases are more beneficial to low-paid rather than percentage wage increases, and for many years there have been percentage increases in wages, which tend to benefit the highest paid public employees. And that is going to be part of the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172129	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172132	But it's a bit of talk to say that it all depends on what the committee gets to. That's only true if you think it all started yesterday. I mean, this is a process that we have been through in conflict after the conflict and in collective bargaining after collective bargaining. There are no new things on the table in this regard, so the committee is not in itself a solution. It is an opportunity to get some things together, and I am happy to receive the announcement from the Minister that the government is willing to do something. I'd like us to know a little more about what something is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172208	I am glad that Mrs Jette Gottlieb is taking it down positively, because I really believe that she and her fellow party members should and should. Well, the government and the Social Democrats are no one's opponents in this context. When I cannot answer exactly what we are going to do, it is fundamental because, frankly, I do not have an overview of or know all the mechanisms that apply in the way that wages have developed. But it is quite obvious that there are some imbalances, they have to be addressed, but they have to be addressed in the right forums.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172248	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172251	Thank you. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister what he thinks the problem of unequal pay is and what the consequences of unequal pay are and how long the Minister thinks there has been a problem of unequal pay in our society. The minister asked Mrs Rosa Lund if the Enhedslisten knew what it took to solve this. In fact, we have made a concrete proposal, and the Minister is well aware of this, that we have to create a low and equal pay pool of 5 billion. kr., and that the parties can then negotiate it, and that we have to make a plan to get rid of unequal pay. We have also had the Minister in consultation on this earlier. In 2008, the Social Democratic Party supported the idea that 5 billion should be allocated. kr. I do not quite understand why we are in a situation now, when the government will not help to be a little more specific about the fact that there will be negotiations that some funds will be set aside so that we can get to grips with the consequences of the civil service reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172358	The answer to the first part of Mrs Victoria Velasquez's question about whether I agree that we have unequal pay and wage differences in Denmark is: yes, I very much agree with that. It is well documented and a challenge that I believe we should all take seriously. Next, about how long I think there has been an inequality problem: well, I think there has really been since our civilization began to operate with the means of money. And then on the third question: well, I know about Enhedslisten's proposal. If we do not agree that certain funds should be set aside in advance or that certain measures should be identified, it is also because we believe that this is more and even more complicated. After all, I mentioned before that the wage increases which nurses have received and unfortunately voted against in kroner and ear correspond to about 1.1 billion. kr. An equal pay pool of 5 billion. kr. Not only to the nurses, but also to all the public employees, it is not going to correct the unequal pay problem that several people are pointing to. Then you just have to be honest, and I think that a substantial part of the solutions are also found in the negotiations of the parties themselves, and there we need to have an interaction between the various things and have a full overview of what sort of handles you can turn on and some buttons you can push on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172524	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172525	But it's a matter of recognition. In other words, we fully agree that 5 billion. kr. alone can't do it. After all, there is a reason why we are proposing 5 billion. kr. to a low and equal pay pool. That's for us to get started. There has to be a plan so that we actually get rid of it. It is also absurd in some way that so humbly a proposal cannot gain support in this Chamber and that the Social Democracy has apparently changed course since 2008, or what? I just think it is a pity if a newly-appointed Minister for Gender Equality passes through what the Minister himself has to say, a historic opportunity to change this. Then we could not start and then just call for negotiations to find some funding, so there just comes a little bit of guarantee to those affected by the distortion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172608	I have to say once again that we do not reject in advance any ideas at all, but it is important for us to take seriously the pay structure committee which the parties themselves wanted set up, which comes up from a single trade union organisation, and lets it do its job of looking at the whole, including the interaction with private agreements. And another thing that is also important is that what we are discussing today, unfortunately, and I cannot stress that enough, is a legislative proposal that must intervene in a conflict, not a real solution to the problem that lies further in the future and that needs to be covered in depth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172649	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172650	Thank you. I'm having a little trouble understanding where the position of the Minister for Gender Equality is. I understand that there is a problem of unequal pay in this society, it recognises the Minister, and then we are in a situation now when the government says that it is now the Folketing and the government's responsibility to resolve this conflict. Then there is one possibility, and that is to look at the Left and the Conservatives and large parts of the other right and confirm that the mediation sketch that the nurses have voted against twice. That is one possibility. The second option is to sit down at a negotiating table with those parties who are willing to find some means to take the first step in resolving this unequal wage problem. That solution will be a step on the way to resolving it, while the other will simply confirm the unequal pay that is. If this is a problem and it is something that needs to be resolved, and it cannot be solved at once, but can be resolved in respect of the Danish model, what the Enhedslisten's proposal also does, why does the government choose to join with the Left and Conservatives in establishing a mediation proposal and thus not start taking steps to solve this unequal wage problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172812	Can't I just correct again? It does not work in such a way that we have been sitting and negotiating with certain parties about what should be said. I think it is the task of any government to make an assessment of when, firstly, a conflict is hopeless and, secondly, it is beginning to have social consequences which, in view of the lack of hope, can grow too large, and on that basis we have taken the conciliation sketch from the first round of negotiations, but from the second round of 18 May, and have said that it recommended a 'yes' to both parties. We then take it and propose to the Folketing openly to exalt to law. One essential element of it is, firstly, wage increases which correspond to what all other public servants in large numbers have voted in favour of, and secondly, the setting up of a pay structure committee which can point to answers, solutions and depths in these very complex questions, including interaction with the private sector. That is what has been done. It would have been to break with all traditions of the role of both the government and the Folketing if we sat down and negotiated as part of a legislative action that something specific should happen in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172927	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826172928	The government, of course, takes stock of the political situation before deciding on anything and the government has known that there was an opportunity to sit down, find funds that could be put into a trilateral, and thus solve the challenge. This could have allowed us to start the fight against unequal pay, it would have allowed us to start to ensure that we resolve the problems we have in terms of recruitment and retention, and it would also have allowed us to have a more robust health care and a more robust welfare society. The government has had that reading. One has also had a reading in which one said that one could also choose the other and traditional path, and that is what the government has chosen, and that is what I do not understand; secondly, it would also have been possible, also within the Danish model, also with respect for the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826173014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826173015	But again, I really think that Mr. Peder Hvelplund misunderstands the government's motives and wishes. The greatest wish we have had throughout this nearly ten-week conflict was not to reach a point where we had to propose to Parliament that we intervene in the conflict. We have not wanted to do so at any time. This is both for reasons of principle, but also because it reflects the failure of both the model and the employers and employees in that situation. And for a government, I also think that it is a defeat in itself to have to go to the Folketing and ask the Folketing to intervene.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826173058	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826173100	Thank you. In a recent study by DSR, it emerged that six out of ten nurses are considering leaving the profession. I don't know if the Minister has seen that investigation. One in four newly trained nurses and almost as many nursing students doubt that they will be working as a nurse in five years' time. In addition, the Labour Market and Recruitment Agency reports that one in three attempts to recruit a nurse for a position has simply been in vain. We need nurses, and we need them. We can all agree on that. The nurses have now been on strike since 19 June and believe that equal pay can make their work more attractive. They no longer want to be paid according to gender, but according to competences. And then what I would like to ask the Minister is how exactly he envisages solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826173200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826173203	I really do not think that there are any snapshot solutions to that challenge, because I think it is about a lot more things besides pay. It is not to belittle wages as an essential factor, but I think it is about working conditions; I think it is about underinvestment in health care and in the welfare society in general. The nurses are not the only public sector group where we can see that there are recruitment challenges. This also applies to the Sosu, who, by the way, voted in favour of their agreement by a large majority, where they get the same wage increase as the nurses get with this bill. There are also other groups where you experience the same thing. I think we have a great obligation to take this very seriously. From the government's point of view, this is about investing in our welfare societies. It is about giving more competences and more participation to the individual employee. And yes, of course, it is also a question of clarifying and addressing the differences in pay that many people are shouting about there being, and therefore I do not want to belittle that they exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826173306	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826173307	I now believe that it is both the working environment and the lack of recognition of their competences. Then what I would like to ask the Minister is whether the Minister will undertake to follow up the recommendations of the Structure of Wages Committee when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826173329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826173329-2	Yes, the short answer is yes. The government intends to commit itself to follow up on the analysis and recommendations of the pay structure committee, but I think it is also important to emphasise once again that what the pay structure committee is going to analyse will not only be what the Folketing can do. But I also think that without knowing it with the insight I have, a great deal of the analyses will be about what kind of demands are being exchanged, what the pay structures are in different professional groups and between different professional groups. And all this I think must be seen in its entirety and all with respect for the regulation system, which, historically, has also helped to ensure that public employees do not lag behind private employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826173416	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210826173430	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 27 August 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
