ParlaMint-DK_20211029100002	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 26 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to give Danish families of children greater freedom to organize their daily lives). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk The Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written regional and rural policy statement 2021. 6) The statement will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 9 November 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029100044	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029100118	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Alexander Grandt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029100133	Thank you for the floor, President. This bill is basically intended to revise the Food Law, among other things. Based on food reconciliation 4 of 24 October 2018, which was concluded by a unanimous Parliament. The draft law involves three amendments to the Food Law: firstly, the draft law must modernise the legal basis of the Food Law for obtaining and processing and coordinating information from authorities and companies and organisations. This change aims to ensure the best possible basis for data-driven food control. Secondly, the draft law must specify the provision on publication so as to allow food business operators to publish inspection reports, inter alia. marketing on social platforms and other electronic media. The bill also involves a change in the smiley scheme, so that in future there will be only three smiley symbols rather than the four that are today. Thirdly, the fee provisions of the Food Act are updated by transferring the applicable fee charges from the text marking in the Finance Act. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that it makes good sense to target food control for those companies that have problems and to take into account those who can and will comply with the rules. We can, among other things. ensure with this bill that will provide better opportunities for data-driven food control and thus exploit the potentials of digitalisation and technology. This will ensure more effective control for the benefit of both food businesses and consumers. We also believe that it should be easier for consumers to find control reports by food companies on various electronic platforms where businesses market themselves. It is only sensible at a time when many consumers use social media for Facebook and other digital platforms like Just Eat to find and order their food; a trend we see has grown especially here under corona. That is why the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029100331	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029100339	Thank you for that, President. This bill, which we are discussing here in the Parliamentary Chamber today, aims to modernise the provisions of the Food Law for control purposes. It should be easier to process, but also to collate information from authorities, companies and organisations. Thus, we are now focusing control on those companies that have difficulty in complying with the rules, and then we are making life easier for those food companies where there are no problems. In the Left, we support the fact that food companies that comply with the rules are not subjected to unnecessary bureaucracy and unnecessary controls, and, on the contrary, that we are focusing on controls where there are stumbled vessels. Through the change, we ensure that data from authorities and companies are collected, processed and co-ordinated, so that it will also be easier to carry out food control where the rules are broken. All in all, it can be said that we are making it easier and more functional to control forward-lookingly, and it is clear that this is something that we in the Left are very much in favour of, and that is why we also support this legislative proposal. At the same time, I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029100506	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. It is noted that the Conservative People's Party has made its views known through a rapporteur from another party. The next party is ready, and that is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Welcome to Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029100520	Thank you for that, President. After all, this bill comes from some initiatives we have agreed in food conciliation 4 in October 2018. The three amendments to the Food Law proposed by the bill aim to target food controls against companies that violate legislation and to take account of companies that can and will comply with the rules so that they have fewer controls and more guidance. Based on the modernised data-driven control of obtaining, processing and collating information, it is possible to target the control. It will be easier to find the stray vessels in the industry for the benefit of food safety and thus of consumers, and it is possible to strengthen efforts to combat food fraud. In addition, a clarification of the provision on the publication of the results of the checks is proposed, which means that companies placing food on the market online will in future link to findsmiley.dk. The third amendment is a transfer of the applicable fee rates from the Finance Act to the Food Act as regards fixed tariffs for financing control campaigns, strengthened control of food supplements and the food travel team. Fees are not something we cheer about in the Danish People's Party, but among other things. the strengthened control of food supplements was something we assessed was still important when we made food reconciliation 4, so we therefore accept that there is a fee. I am pleased to note that, in the light of the consultations, which are, moreover, largely positive, the Ministry of Food has made adjustments to the draft law. Clarifications have been made in the draft law's general remarks, including: concerning the general principles of data protection set out in the Data Protection Regulation. In addition, it is noted that the FDA will shortly convene the organisations concerned for a meeting on the development of data-driven controls. It is obviously important that there is close, positive cooperation between the Danish Food Safety Authority and the organisations concerned. So without really saying much more, I can just say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029100734	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029100745	Thank you for the floor. I am here as a substitute for my colleague Carl Valentin, who has unfortunately become ill, but I shall try to read this speech to the best of my ability. As has rightly been said, it is an expiry of food conciliation 4 which we in the SF and a broad majority in the Folketing have been involved in adopting, and that is why we are also pleased with the bill. A more targeted and smarter food control is a good thing, and in this way we will ensure that we can turn our backs on those who have problems over time when food control is visiting, while at the same time leaving all the good and law-abiding businesses a little more alone. It's a smart maneuver, and the SF warmly supports it. But it also requires us to exploit the potential of digital data collection and other digital instruments. That is why we are updating the legislation now, so we have a larger digital toolbox. We are updating the smiley scheme so that it is better suited to a reality where food control is more individual and targeted, and that is a logical consequence of a smart food control. I would also like to highlight the tightening up of the rules on digital marketing. Because what we are doing now is simply asking companies, as has already been mentioned, that if they want to be present on social media, their inspection report should also be. It is a victory for consumers. In this way, a company cannot advance on Facebook or Instagram and write that they e.g. has a top-class kitchen, while keeping their sour smileys far away from the back. All in all, it is a very excellent bill that brings food control into a more digital age, and the SF warmly supports it. And then I should like to welcome both the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029100946	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I note that the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, through the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, have expressed their position on the draft law here, and I note that the other three parties represented in the Folketing are not present at all. It should not, of course, be a burden on those parties who are present, thank you for that and, however, it is parties that represent a very large number of seats. However, I cannot fail to note that I think it is rather dubious that only four of the parties of the Folketing are present at a first reading of a legislative proposal. I recognise that it is the implementation of an agreement, etc., but I can see that Members who are present are nodding and showing agreement with me thank you for that. I will just go ahead with that, because I do not think it is acceptable. The Minister is here, of course, and the Minister probably also agrees with me that it is sad that there are no more parties present at the first reading of an important legislative proposal, but nevertheless welcome to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029101048	Thank you very much, President. And yes, we always want the greatest possible participation in our parliamentary debates, but sometimes one can have prepared one's legal work so well that there is not so much to object, and that is so much to our talented officials sitting over here in the official gallery. Thank you to the rapporteurs for the speeches that have been made in the debate. Thank you for a good and constructive debate on the draft law and, of course, first of all, thank you for a good conciliation which shows that there is consensus in the Folketing in this area. The proposal is part of the implementation of food compromise 4, which consists of three elements. The first two elements are amendments to the Food Law, which are necessary for the development of data-driven food control and the modernisation of the smiley system. The changes are part of current developments...
ParlaMint-DK_20211029101147	The Minister still has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029101150	The changes are part of the ongoing development of food control in order to maintain a high level of food safety. The development of new technology and the digitalisation of the use of data thus allow both companies and authorities. That potential must be exploited in future data-driven food regulation and food control, so that control is further targeted. Against this background, it is necessary to modernise the provisions of the Food Law on the collection and interconnection of information. The co-operation provision provides for the possibility of obtaining information from other public authorities necessary to verify compliance with food law. The provision in the proposal only covers the collection of information for the purposes of priority and planning of food control. The third and final element is a purely regulatory adjustment that shifts the fee rates to the Food Act's fee provisions. However, the rates of charges have been set out in a textual note of the Finance Act. As mentioned, the two substantive parts of the draft law are based on the broad food agreement concluded in October 2018. The bill reflects the broad consensus here in the Folketing that we are constantly developing food control so that a high level of food safety is maintained for the benefit of both the industry and the consumer. With these words, I would like to look forward to the committee reading of the draft law and again thank you for the debate and for the broad support for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029101328	Thank you, Minister. There is no desire for short remarks on the draft law, but as I understand it, there is a desire for a second round. And this is sir. Jens Rohde, who, as rapporteur for the Christian Democrats, has the floor in a second round. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029101349	Thank you. I am sorry that I did not get down here when I had to give the rapporteur's speech, but I just have to say that when almost all the parties send greetings, we do not have a chance to do so, and especially not the small parties, which are already plentifully pressured, in relation to the fact that we have to be in many places at once. I have to say that with the bullshit that came from the President, and at the same time I will be allowed to say whether or not I am allowed to say that it is an interesting planning that you are doing in this high thing: that you have two cases on today, on a Friday, when yesterday we ended so relatively early in the afternoon. I think the Bureau can give some thought to this. Having said that, we naturally support the draft law. We think it is a very good idea for targeted controls to be carried out, and I wish that this was something that was brought into other parts of the government and other parts of the control apparatus of the authorities. And I hope that the Minister will take a greeting to the Minister for Justice and ask whether it is not time for the same practice to be introduced in relation to the logging directive, as is currently being done here in the Ministry of Food. With these words, we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029101508	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Christian Democrats. And I am not going to engage in a discussion with the rapporteur from the platform. I know the rapporteur's temperament, and it is probably sensible to take it in a different context, but the messages have been received. As no one else has asked for the floor, the first reading of this bill has ended. I therefore propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029101541	The debate is open and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Alexander Grandt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029101557	Thank you for the floor. The purpose of this bill is to revise the law on animal welfare and to bring about two sensible changes in the law. The first part is about implementing elements of the action plan to combat Salmonella dublin, which runs from 2021 onwards, and which are also based on food reconciliation 4. It is a question of amending the existing mandatory provisions so that the Food and Agriculture Authority will have the opportunity to intervene both when a cattle herd poses a particular risk to Salmonella dublin, and that more cattle houses may be required to provide veterinary advice than is the case today. The second part of the amendment concerns voluntary health advisory agreements for herds with animal species other than pigs and cattle, and the purpose in that part is to clarify that the Minister may lay down rules on the conclusion of voluntary health advisory agreements ■ that was a long word for the herds with animal species other than pigs and cattle. This was not continued when, in the context of the revision of the veterinary law in 2010, the provision was moved to the law on the keeping of animals, and that is what is being corrected now. In the social democracy we believe it is important that we increase the health of animals and that we maintain our high food control in Denmark. It is absolutely essential for consumers to be able to buy food safely and to have confidence that food safety is at its top. This requires a strong sustained focus, which is why it is good that with this bill we are strengthening our efforts to combat Salmonella dublin. That is why, of course, the Social Democratic Party can also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029101741	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029101752	Thank you for that, President. The draft law L 41 is also part of the food compromise 4 and deals with the control of a specific salmonella called Salmonella dublin, and it is in relation to the risk of infection from this salmonella and the voluntary health advice agreements that we are dealing with it now. These initiatives are aimed at helping eradicate Salmonella dublin in the cattle industry, which has taken place since 2002 in cooperation between the authorities and the food industry. The first initiative of the bill is a requirement for veterinary advice on cattle premises when the control of Salmonella dublin is needed. The second initiative sets out the legal basis for the establishment of voluntary health advisory agreements for herds with species other than pigs and cattle. The Left can also support this bill, and again I would like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029101903	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. It is noted that there was a greeting from the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Lise Bech. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029101912	Thank you, President. As has been said, this bill, like the previous one, L 40, is part of food reconciliation 4. In January 2021, the Conciliation Committee approved a new action plan as the previous action had not produced the desired result. Therefore, the grip is being tightened now so that more cattle estates than today can be required veterinary advice. The draft law here is intended to provide the legal basis for determining when cattle estates may be required to provide veterinary advice. In addition, the draft law should provide for the establishment of rules on voluntary health advisory agreements for livestock other than pigs and cattle. I think I have never seen so few consultation responses to a change of law and consultation responses that are so positive and agreeable with the changes that they actually say thank you. I am very pleased about this, and the Danish People's Party can of course support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029102014	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029102023	As has been said, this is a legislative proposal on Salmonella Dublin, which is a very serious disease. The symptoms include: in the animals receiving it, bleeding in the intestine, infections in the bloodlines and 75 per cent. of those infected with Salmonella Dublin end up in hospital. Mortality is frighteningly high and much higher than in a normal salmonella infection. In the cows affected, it is the cause of disease symptoms, which are very, very bad. These are both abortions and high mortality rates. In other words, it is a disease that we really need to take seriously, and that is why we in the SF are delighted that this draft law is escalating the fight against Salmonella Dublin, because when disease jumps between animals and people gets free play, it can go horribly wrong. It has become frighteningly clear during the last two years of the corona epidemic. Fortunately, as far as Salmonella Dublin is concerned, we know much better what is needed to prevent the emergence of infection and pandemics in the first place, especially in animals. In Denmark, we even have a goal of completely eradicating salmonella Dublin in 2025. We set that objective with the action plan adopted last year. Unfortunately, the process has gone a little slowly since, which is why we in the SF are incredibly happy that the toolbox is now being expanded and the effort is being screwed up. Nor can we deny that, at some point, we may have to use even tougher means if the efforts we have now adopted prove to be inadequate. That is why, like the Ministry, we want to keep a very close eye on developments so that we can ensure that the objective of Denmark being Salmonella Dublin-free in four years' time is achieved, both for public health and for animals. In those words, on behalf of the SF, I support the bill, and I should like to welcome both the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten and say that they also support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029102231	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. It is also noted that there is a greeting from both the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Christian Democrats. Welcome to sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029102253	It is strange that one should be subjected to a character murder by the President when one makes a criticism which the President himself has, moreover, directed at other parties in order to send...
ParlaMint-DK_20211029102304	There is no discussion with the Speaker of Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029102311	Then the President himself must not discuss and make himself an employer to the other parties of the Folketing. I think that would be a good thing (First Vice-President, I have to ask you, Mr President. Jens Rohde says that he is sticking to the subject, thank you)... and one must at least relate substantively to the criticism that comes, rather than talking about the spiritual suit of members of parliament. It doesn't belong anywhere. Having said that, however, I would like to send our support with a great smile to the Minister's proposal, which is one more in line here today of good proposals, which are quite logical. One can say that the only criticism one should make is that this really should have been done a long time ago. So thank you for that. KD supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029102355	There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur, and since no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, I can give the floor to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029102407	Again, many thanks to the rapporteurs for your speeches and for a good and constructive debate and broad support for this proposal. I cannot help but welcome, as a minister, the very broad support for this proposal and the fact that we have been able to reach such a good settlement. As Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party mentioned, it is very limited what is of consultation answers, and those who are are positive, and it also makes it clear again that we must welcome skilled officials who have really done a great job, even in a time of pressure, and it is nice that we can work together in the Folketing. It's the cooperative folk government when it's best when we can get together to do good things like this. The bill contains two amendments to the law on animal husbandry. The first amendment allows the FDA to intervene both in the past when a cattle herd poses a particular risk of infection for Salmonella Dublin, and it will also be possible to intervene in cases other than today. The second amendment restores a clear legal framework allowing the Minister to lay down rules on the conclusion of voluntary health advisory agreements for herds with species other than pigs and cattle. The aim of the part of the bill relating to Salmonella Dublin is that more cattle houses may be required to provide veterinary advice than is the case today, in other words, a step in the right direction. The bill empowers the Minister to define when cattle-based buildings pose a particular risk of Salmonella Dublin infection. After all, this allows us to adapt the definition as we acquire new knowledge about Salmonella Dublin. I would also like to add a few words to the part of the draft law on voluntary health advisory agreements. The homepage to lay down rules on the conclusion of health advisory agreements for livestock was transferred by legal review in 2010 from the veterinary legislation to animal husbandry law. It is clear from the preparatory work of the Amending Law that it was intended to continue the existing legal framework in relation to the establishment of rules on both mandatory and voluntary health advisory agreements. However, when we read the law itself, we can see that it has been designed too narrowly in relation to its purpose, and then action has to be taken, and there we have vast employees who do the job. I therefore propose, with this bill, that we restore a clear legal framework. Home meal will not be limited to specific animal species, but until further notice it is intended to ensure that there is a clear legal basis from the Statutory Order on Health Advice Agreements for sheep and goat herds and aquaculture facilities respectively. This is not a comprehensive legislative proposal, but the proposed changes are important in raising the health of people and animals. We can bring about major changes by taking small but correct steps in relation to the fight against Salmonella Dublin. With these words, I would like to look forward to the committee's consideration of the draft law and thank you for your support and for a good and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029102725	Thank you, Minister. There is no wish for brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211029102739	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. In the coming week there will be the Nordic Council session here in the Assembly Hall. Therefore the next meeting of the Danish Parliament will not be held again until Tuesday 9 November 2021. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
