ParlaMint-DK_20210406130008	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Jakob Sølvhøj (EL) and Jette Gottlieb (EL): Request no. 57 (About adult and continuing training for unskilled and skilled workers). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210406130027	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. Before I start the vote, I would ask you to check whether it is the correct name in your voting panel. Then we shall proceed to the vote and there are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 94 by Jep Bruu (S), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Rosa Lund (EL) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting is possible. Someone logged in to space number. 147? If so, please report. It was Orla Hav! Now we're getting expert assistance. Isn't there a parliamentary officer who can help with that so we can sort it out? Orla Hav has no. 146, I'm told. Then I think the complications have been resolved and I shall conclude the vote. In favour 61 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 33 (V, DF, LA and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), abstention 2 (NB). Proposal for adoption No V 94 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 93 by Peter Skaarup (DF) and proposals for adoption No. V 95 by Jan E. Jørgensen (V) and Henrik Dahl (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406130431	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is one proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 99 by Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Kasper Sand Kjær (S), Karsten Lauritzen (V), Astrid Carøe (SF), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Pernille Skipper (EL), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. For the vote: 97 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Inger Støjberg (UFG)), Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against: 0 abstentions. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406130531	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 97 by Rasmus Stoklund (S), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the vote: 30 (S and 1 (EL) (by mistake)), 67 (V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Inger Støjberg (UFG), Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), neither for nor against voted 0. Proposal for adoption No V 97 is rejected. The vote shall then be taken on the proposal for adoption No. V 96 by Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), Martin Geertsen (V), Per Larsen (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Inger Støjberg (UFG), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), against 52 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 96 has been rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 98 by Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF), Kristian Hegaard (RV) and Victoria Velasquez (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 25 votes (SF, RV, EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 71 abstentions (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Inger Støjberg (UFG)). Proposal for adoption No V 98 is rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406130717	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406130731	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Inger Støjberg (UFG), Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406130756	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406130812	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 17 (RV, EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 71 (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), abstentions 8 (SF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406130841	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Say? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting so that we can get the liquor off in the Chamber. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13.25.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406132534	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. Sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406132555	Thank you very much to the President-in-Office of the Council. As is known, on 25 January, the government, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, concluded an agreement to replace mink growers and followers in Denmark. In addition to the Social Democracy, the Left, the Radical Left, the SF and the Liberal Alliance are included in the agreement. The decision to kill all minks in Denmark was considered a necessary decision for public health reasons during the coronapandemic. And it is quite understandable that it has been an incredibly tough and difficult decision, not least for mink farmers, who suddenly had to say goodbye to their profession and put their animals to death. That is why it has also been given high priority that a good and fair solution was found that would give the mink and mink industries calm and certainty for the future. It was a matter which naturally included both many citizens and the parties of the Folketing. Many questions were asked, many questions were answered, and many debates have been in this Chamber on the subject. With the agreement of 25 January, we obtained an agreement which sets out the total compensation for mink farmers. The parties agreed on a direct compensation for mink growers and a compensation for the industries indirectly affected by it are, for example, feed producers and fur farms. At the same time, the agreement also consisted of a pool of efforts, including: to help employees further in new jobs. We are aware that it was a very large agreement that was reached, an agreement to a great many billions. The agreement reflects that it was an extraordinary situation: the corona hit minkkeepers particularly hard. Overall, the direct compensation for mink farmers is expected to be between 10.9 and 11.9 billion. kr. The precise amount varies, as the case of each mink grower must be assessed individually. The compensation must also be seen in the light of the fact that the mink farmer is estimated to have a debt of around 8.6 billion. kr., means to help employees further in new jobs and compensation for the affected secondary industries, which amount to 3.1-4.1 billion. kr. Finally, between 1.6 and 2.8 billion have also been allocated. kr. for demolition of installations, etc. Now we are here today, April 6, 2021, to deal with L 206. The proposal extends the range of eligible secondary activities to the renting of barn and cage capacity for mink production in Denmark as well as furries serving mink production in Denmark. In this way, compensation can be granted to fur farms serving Danish mink growers, regardless of whether the furry is organisationally separated as an independent secondary activity or is part of a company where mink growing is also carried out in Denmark. Social democracy is included in the agreement of 25 January and also supports the timetable, which is why we would also like to state here that we are looking forward to a good, objective and proper committee procedure, in which, of course, we will also make ourselves available constructively. The fact that the payout unit now has 75 employees is evidence that it is a relatively large setup, and I can also understand from the feedback we have received from among others. the minister responsible for working at high pressure. It is important to work at high pressure, but it is also important that each mink grower gets clarity and gets both individual but also proper treatment. We have also noted that the government is in favour of, among other things. We welcome the response from Finans Danmark. And with these comments we look forward to the further examination of the draft law and we look forward to the further debate. We can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406133033	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We're just gonna get the booze off, will you, please? Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406133102	Thank you. On 4 November 2020 very many will be a landmark date in Denmark, especially for the mink growers, the employees, the followers and the families, but who saw with one thing that a proud profession was laid in the grave. Decades of breeding work have been destroyed, families' livelihoods have been removed, and this was done at a press conference with very, very short notice and, moreover, without the government having the legal basis to do so, but it is another matter and it will be a process that needs to be thoroughly investigated and clarified. But, of course, after the government had made that decision, the government also assumed a huge responsibility, because the consequences of the government's decision were far-reaching. I have to say that when the discussion started, there was much discussion about whether there was compensation or compensation, and for the Left it has been crucial that there is compensation, because this is a profession that has been buried because of a decision that must be equivalent to expropriation. We need to clean up after the government's actions, and that is why we in the Left were constructively involved in the negotiations to ensure that both mink farmers, i.e. the mink industry, but also the follower industry, were guaranteed complete compensation for the abandonment of an entire profession. At the end of January, we managed to reach a broad political agreement which ensured proper treatment of the industry and also of the downstream industry, because it is therefore violent that from one day to the next we see that what we have invested in and what we have been working on, and indeed that we can no longer do so. The legislative proposal that we have before us must secure the legal basis for implementing the political agreement from the end of January. Something is already provided for in the previous L77, but the draft law here must provide the legal basis for, among other things. the rules governing the following professions, the requirement of permits, the rules governing the demolition of buildings taken over, the restoration of land and the payment of compensation, the composition and operation of the future commissions for compensation and tax relief and much more. As you know, there will be a great many cases; there are more than 1,000 mincows in Denmark. That is why there will also be some of the cases, namely the expropriation cases, which, unfortunately, can only be expected to be concluded in a few years' time, and it would not, of course, be appropriate for the growers concerned to bear the costs they may have in the intervening period themselves. That is why I note with satisfaction that the legal basis is now being created for the costs, be they fire insurance, taxes or other necessary maintenance costs, to be covered by the fact that this is a good thing. However, there are a great many crucial details which will subsequently have to be laid down in the notices provided for in the draft law. So the bill itself does not provide answers to many of the questions that I often encounter. The consultation answers raise a number of very important questions which we in the Left will pursue, and these are some very central questions about the legal status of expropriation, in relation to when an expropriation should be considered to apply; in relation to whether a real restoration of land where there is now mink farming is ensured; whether the demarcation in relation to secondary occupations is flexible enough to ensure compensation for all affected directly and indirectly by the closure of the mink industry. Pawn and creditor rights are also problematical in relation to the infringement of some fairly fundamental legal relationships. Of course, that must also be dealt with. Finally, I also note that Danske Lawyers say that the provision to set a ceiling for the leather index on price 105 can be problematic, and we are also looking forward to getting the details right, because otherwise it will have to be corrected. The government's plan that this bill can be run through in just one week, I'm pretty worried about. We share the wish to have the legal basis in place, but the legal procedure must therefore take the time that is needed, and I therefore hope that the government understands the reasonableness of the fact that the Folketing will have a little more time than has been proposed. I believe that this will ensure better legal work and a better basis for further work. But basically, this helps to translate the agreement that we are part of. That is why, of course, we in the Left are constructively involved in the further work on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406133612	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Thanks for despriting. Then we move on to Mrs Lise Bech, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406133630	Thank you for that, President. Yes, the mink case has filled a lot in the past year, and it can be said that new information and revelations are constantly coming throughout this mink scandal. This time it's a document that the Ministry of Health won't hand over. It is a document that shows that there was no evidence that the mink variant cluster-5 could destroy the effect of the corona vaccines. It is a document which can reveal that it was an overreaction to close seven northern Jutland municipalities and, worse still, to use it as an excuse to eradicate an entire profession completely illegally. This suggests that the Ministry of Health is again trying to cover up the Prime Minister's constitutional breach, just as the National Police are covering up the Ministry of Justice, when we now know that it was the Ministry of Justice that instructed the National Police to direct the work of killing all mink crews in Denmark, although there was no legal basis for it. So the Ministry of Justice is also trying to cover up the Prime Minister's violation of the Constitution. I wonder how long this could go on. Anyway, this proposal to amend L 77 on the killing and temporary prohibition of mink crews in force until 31 December 2021 will provide a legal basis for changing compensation to mink growers and followers. The Danish People's Party is not a part of the mink agreement.This is due to the fact that the government would not be involved in creating an attractive hibernation model, so several mink growers could have been able to resume their mink production in 2022. It would have been cheaper for the Danes and better for minkers and followers. Instead, the expensive solution was chosen, which all Danes will in future be involved in paying. Mink growers and followers have ended up in this crazy situation completely innocent and are now waiting for compensations. The Danish People's Party would like to support the amendment of the law which extends the circle of eligible secondary industries, so that compensation will in future include the rental of barn and cage capacity for mink production in Denmark and also furries serving mink production in Denmark. However, it seems rather inconvenient that so many people who are entitled to a hearing have so many comments on the proposal, which has only been in consultation for a week. We rapporteurs have also had very little time to read the answers to the hearings, and we therefore lack the Ministry's comments on the hearings. And even if we really want to support this bill, we have to do it properly and get a committee reading and get answers to all questions, from questions from the Danish Pelsfy Farmer Association to questions from Finans Danmark. And, as the previous rapporteur said, we need to do it properly, because we want to proceed constructively. However, we are very much looking forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134001	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134018	Thank you. This proposal is about implementing the agreement we have made on compensation for the mink industry. I think I can say calmly that this has been the hardest agreement I have been able to make in the time I have been sitting at Christiansborg. It is for several reasons, both because it was a really hard process, because it was a terrible contagious situation, because it was a serious situation for the mink growers affected by it here, both in relation to infection, but also, of course, in relation to their work, and also, of course, with regard to the government's act and everything that has been in this regard, but also very concrete, because it is a very, very expensive agreement, and it is a huge amount of taxpayers' money that is being spent on it here. I think that is difficult, but I also think it is important when you think that you should make such a decision as this one that we made, that all minks should be put to death, that you should then be ready to make an agreement. That's why the SF has consistently gone seriously to this work and been in the negotiations all the way through. I am proud of this too, even though the result would have looked significantly different if it had been the SF that had made this compensation agreement alone. However, we are happy to help ensure that the amount was not even higher, and we are also glad that a hibernation model was not created which was very attractive, so we could risk that a very large part of the mink industry would potentially be kick-started again. We certainly do not want that. We don't think it would be safe to start mink again. There is a lot of debate about whether we can afford to start again in 2022, i.e. whether it is healthy to start again in 2022. I think it is a little strange at all to talk about health-friendly mink breeding with the situation we have seen here, which could well be resurrected, both with covid-19, but also with other diseases. So we hope, in spite of this sad situation, that with this agreement we have now also secured the possibility for mink growers to move forward, and that minkavl can then be the past in Denmark. At least we will continue to work for this. I also hope that we have learned from this situation from the risk of future epidemics associated with the spread of infection in our animal production. Now we also see the spread of avian influenza, and we have had several cases with MRSA, which is very common in Danish pig production. On the whole, there is no doubt that spread of infection is a common occurrence in intensive animal production, and we must be very aware of the consequences it can have for public health, both in relation to mutations of existing diseases, possible future epidemics ■ many of these things. This is something that we, as food rapporteurs, must be aware of and that I hope will be a major part of the debate in the future. We think it is good that we have managed to land a compensation agreement here that would have looked somewhat different if the SF had decided, but we are pleased to have had an influence on it and therefore we also support the piece of legislation that we are debating right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134329	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmide.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134338	I just noticed that the Socialist rapporteur said that it was pleased that there will no longer be mink jobs in Denmark. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that what has been implemented is not regulation, but the expropriation of the profession, that is to say that what we have had in mind, at least on the part of the Socialist People's Party, is what follows from Article 73 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134358	I said that this means that, hopefully, there will not be mink in the future, because it is not a permanent ban, but a temporary ban. I just want to say that first and foremost. However, it is clear that I believe that this is equivalent to expropriation, unless one chooses the hibernation model, where one then has the opportunity to continue and then not have to have his buildings, his equipment and everything else that is also in the agreement. But yes, what is going on here is something that is roughly equivalent to expropriation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134425	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134427	I am very pleased that the rapporteur confirms this. Has he not, like me, also wondered why the government does not take a position on this in the legislative proposals that have been put forward? There is discussion on the one hand and on the other hand, but there is no clear indication that this was an expropriative intervention, and may this be because there was no legal basis and that it would be even more embarrassing to break a lex specialis, i.e. Article 73 of the Basic Law, than just the ordinary legislative competence in § 3?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134455	I shall not be able to say what could be a breach of the constitution and the legal provisions, but I have heard the government say on several occasions that an agreement will be made on something similar to expropriation, and it has to be said that a very large agreement is being made here with a very large amount of money for these mink growers, which is equivalent to the fact that they had been expropriated. So I kind of think you follow that path. As far as the constitutional issue is concerned, I find it difficult to answer it from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134527	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then we can move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134542	Dignity, propriety and respect should be some of the values we all tried to act on here in the Folketing, even when there is corona and must be made tough decisions. In the fall, the government decided to kill all minks. It happened quickly, violently, and without the government having control of the legislation. We think that we saw a very arbitrary and top-level government and a government that did not act on the basis of the values that I think should apply in the Danish people's government. That is why, in the Radical Left, we were also determined to spend a great deal of time, including for the great frustration of the government, negotiating and implementing a system of compensation for the mink industry. Quick and quick decisions had been made enough. We were and are in favour of all mink being killed in order to reduce the spread of corona virus and of new types of corona virus. But for us, it was important to examine whether the Folketing could make an arrangement as widely as possible for the people and companies who lost it all. A very broad agreement succeeded, and I would like to thank the government and the parties to the agreement for their good cooperation. To be honest, a system would certainly have been considerably cheaper if it had been left alone to the Radical Left. But it could also have been more expensive if it had been done, for example. the Left Party. The agreement is an expression of compromise and a compromise we have reached. In a divisive situation in Denmark, we thought it was strong and proper that a broad majority found each other and found a solution. I know that mink production shares the population, the Folketing and also my own party's hinterland. I would appeal to everyone to bear in mind that the mink industry was legal, and that is why the mink industry must be treated as such, even if it is thought that it should have been illegal. This also means that the people and businesses must receive the compensation to which they are entitled when we have de facto closed down the profession. I know that the government is under pressure for everything to be done quickly. The government receives criticism from mink growers and mink companies who have not received money yet. It is quite logical that people want their compensation so that they can move on. I assume that is also why the government has chosen to deal urgently with the law and there has been only one week of consultation. I can see in the answers to the hearings and we lack the government's response to the hearings... that a number of organisations believe that the law simply does not live up to the agreement that Radicals are part of. Of course, we must ask the government to review this with us in the contract circle, and we must spend some time on it. I therefore call on the government to call the parties to the agreement between this first reading and the second reading, where we can table amendments so that we can clarify the uncertainties raised in the consultations. We are of course going to vote in favour of the law, but, as I said, we will ask that we have a process in committee or in the ministry, in which we get an answer to the criticism raised in the hearings before we finally vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134938	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406134941	Thank you. I am told by the rapporteur that in the Radical Left the price was too high for this agreement. That is what the rapporteur from the platform says. And then the rapporteur also spends a lot of time talking about the importance for the Radical Left of making an agreement over the middle. I think it's a little sticky in two different directions. Because I think that the whole reason why this agreement was so expensive was to insist that it should be made with the bourgeois. Does the Radical Left not feel that they, as a party, have a great responsibility for the price being so high when you were the party that insisted on bringing the bourgeois in the negotiating room?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135026	I've seen very well that Mr. Carl Valentin blames the Radical Left whole or the credit for a broad settlement. I think there were others, for example. a small party called the Social Democratic Party, which was also interested in a broad agreement. At least in the Radical Left we thought it was important in this situation to make a broad agreement. It seemed to us to have value in itself. That is why the agreement has become more expensive than if it had been made with, for example, the Enhedslisten, whose ideology is, of course, an important piece from where the Radical Left lies. I'm aware of that. But I think this was the right thing to do to calm down and get a process that people outside these thick walls trust. So I thought it was important to get that width in it. We shared that wish with the government too. That was why we ended up with a broad agreement instead of a narrow red deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135122	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135124	I am not going to blame the Radical Left for all this, because I agree with the rapporteur that there were also forces in the Social Democratic Party who wanted a very broad agreement. But I still find it crazy how many billions you have potentially been willing to sacrifice extra taxpayers' money just to get a broad deal here. We could have landed a much fairer agreement if we had all insisted that the content of the agreement was more important than if it were broad, and I regret to say that the Radical Left has put itself in the wrong place and is now jointly responsible for making this agreement much more expensive than was necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135200	This is also a big profession that has employed many people and has earned a lot of money into Denmark, and therefore it is a big amount when you close an entire profession. We were not interested in making a narrow agreement with two parties that obviously wanted this profession to close, and that is why we wanted a broad agreement, just as the government also wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135222	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135225	I just need to get in line with what I asked the SF's rapporteur about hearing about Mr. Andreas Steenberg agrees that the intervention taken against mink growers was expropriative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135239	You have to be a lawyer to finally answer that question. But when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt asks about my assessment, so the answer is yes, because this profession can't be resurrected. You can't just go out and buy a new mink farm or a new furry and start up again. That is also why the agreement says that we should be replaced as if it were expropriation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135256	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135257	I am glad that the radical rapporteur says so clearly. Then I would almost assume that we also agree that it was worrying, so it was not said from the beginning, so that the constitutional rights guaranteed in the event of expropriation could have been made clear to the expropriated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135315	Exactly. And that is also one of the things the negotiations were all about, where we and among others. The Left, the Danish People's Party and others pressed for it to be part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135327	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135329	Following the debate that the rapporteur had with the SF rapporteur, I would just like to say that it seemed as if the negotiations were such a once-in-a-lifetime Hjallerup market. And I just have to say that I didn't take part in that. I have participated in negotiations where we have discussed principles on how to make a complete replacement. It has dealt with what some companies are covered. And I would say that this is not a perfect agreement, because if that part of a company producing for mink is only one third, then you are not covered by the agreement, but if that part was left alone and that was 100%, then you were covered. I do not think that is logical, and these are some of the things we have discussed. So I would just like to ask that the radical rapporteur refreshes that what was under discussion were principles for replacing an entire profession and that it was not the case that you were just sitting there trying to knock up a bill. At any rate, we in the Left were concerned that this was a compensation which could be explained and defended and that it should also be in a very peculiar situation where a profession is put to the grave.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135445	Well, I have to say thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen to formulate a better answer to Mr. Carl Valentin, than I was able to do myself. Because it is quite true that we were sitting for a long time negotiating without any amount of money, but where we were trying to negotiate some principles. And I think it is important to point out that it was an entire profession that was de facto closed down. It's never been tried before, and I hope I'll never be part of it again. And that's why we tried to make some principles about what it would look like, and then the amount came after. So it was an attempt to make some principles. And in relation to the question, as Mr. Carl Valentin travels, whether something is fair or not, I would say that this is an assessment of politics and not of fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135529	Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135533	Then somewhere I get a little confused about the radical rapporteur. And it is not to put wormwood in the cup, because I am glad that we have a broad agreement, and I am glad that the Radicals have gone constructively into these negotiations. But the radical rapporteur himself stated from the floor of the Parliament that the Radicals would like to see a much cheaper agreement, and that would require that there should be some principles which would then have been changed. I think we have a fair agreement, a fair agreement that is broadly based. So can the Radicals not shed some light on what these are principles that the Radicals would throw overboard? That means that the agreement will be cheaper, and I think that some answers are lacking from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135615	After all, the negotiations were carried out with the tax minister, and one of the things we were discussing was that the amount of years for which compensation was paid had been smaller. A compromise was then reached, as I said in my speech, which ended with what has been agreed, and of course we stand by that agreement, even though the principles on which we stood had made the agreement cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135639	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and after despriting we move on to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406135703	Thank you. The Enhedslisten supported the government in the decision to dismantle the mink for 2021, and we did so for health reasons, in order to limit the coronasmitten. Then there has subsequently been a process of compensation. As far as this bill is concerned, when you look at it, I think that we are getting closer and closer to a date when we have to relate to whether minkavl can be resurrected in Denmark. That is where we are in a unclear situation and where there is a need for the Folketing to deal with an extension of the law that was adopted when we decided that there should be no mink breeding in Denmark in 2021. It might actually be interesting during the committee's reading to know how many legislative proposals are going to go beyond this bill. We have supported in the Enhedslisten that this bill was dealt with urgently, but we also feel that we will be able to see and read a consultation note before the deadline for asking questions has expired. That's the way it is. So the sooner a hearing answer comes, the sooner we can ask our questions and the sooner the bill can be passed. It's just to say it's very simple. Just because you say yes to urgent treatment does not mean that you say yes to anything. After all, this bill extends the scope for compensation for a number of secondary occupations. We are there in the Enhedslisten that we will not vote for this bill because we are not in the compensation agreement. I think we should be very careful not to give too much compensation. What do you do, for example? against a feed centre which, back in August 2020, before it was decided that the mink was to be dismantled, was in the process of reducing the manning, was firing a shop steward because you had an expectation that you would sell 40%. less feed in 2021? What, then, is the compensation that should be given to such a secondary occupation when it comes to providing full compensation? Similarly, there may be other downstream industries that have had a legitimate expectation to convert less into the mink industry because there were more who expected that by 2021 there would be less mink. I think that is essential to clarify this so that we do not constantly seek to provide the maximum possible compensation. I also think it has been a little shameful to see that, when it came to determining what it was for a level of compensation you should have, and the mink growers had the opportunity to choose to join something that was calculated from the mink auctions in 2021, there was no announcement in time, so that the mink growers could choose between the two models. Nah, instead of finding that the first mink auction with relatively high prices had been held, which indicated that the prices of mink skins in 2021 would probably be at a level that would make it more advantageous to choose a replacement at mink prices in 2021. I don't think that's good. I think that the whole case of small animals in cages also leads to the fact that we have other problems in the agricultural sector. I am well aware that these are not so many animals, but we have seen a chinchilla production which is taking place in small cages and which should also be phased out. I am well aware that it is not a coronasmite that we should fear in relation to the production of the animals, but I do not think it is at all reasonable to have small animals in small cages. So we are also in favour of dismantling it, and we are in favour of it being done in a perhaps a little slower way than what we have seen in relation to the minks, and certainly in a cheaper way. So as the matter stands now, Enhedslisten will not support this bill, but we look forward to seeing a consultation note so that we can also share in asking questions about the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406140120	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406140122	Thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for those comments. Now the Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself brings up the hibernation period and also tells Things that mink production, if all is well known to be sound health, can resume after 31 December 2021, and that a decision-making basis must be prepared in advance. Now the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten and I have discussed mink of a number of rounds, and I understand that Enhedslisten's view of mink production in Denmark has been such that it is not wanted mink in Denmark. That is why I would like to know if the rapporteur himself brings up the hibernation model, brings up a resumption of the profession, whether the rapporteur is willing to discuss a resumption of the profession, or whether the rapporteur will stick to some of the quotations that I have at least been told that the rapporteur has had in the past about the lack of mink breeding in Denmark at all. So if the rapporteur could shed some light on it, it would be nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406140225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406140227	Yes, we voted in favour of that bill because it was an advantage for the industry to be decommissioned in 2021, and we have been able to see from the outset that there was a weakness in the legislative proposal and, for animal welfare reasons, we do not want mink production in any country. It's as simple as that. We do not want a non-domed animal to be in small cages and there can be no larger cages that are good enough. So we are in favour of the dismantling of mink breeding throughout the world. So it will not be a question of us going into a debate about mink growing being resurrected in five years' time and so on, but I also think that we owe it to the Danish Parliament to come up with a solution in time. So, we should not have an urgent procedure on what to do in 2022, we should have a proper treatment of how to deal with the fact that there is now legislation that does not actually prohibit mink growing in 2022, and I do not know how many Danish minks have been moved abroad and where some could have a plan that they could be moved back to Denmark. I have no idea, but I think we should have the legal basis in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406140338	Sir. Anders Kronborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406140339	But what Enhedslisten's rapporteur here also says to those mink growers who then choose a dormant model in relation to the scheme that we have agreed with each other in a broad majority in the Folketing is that they cannot expect Enhedslisten's support for a mink production to continue in Denmark if it is, of course, health-friendly and that the Enhedslisten will go in and fight against those who choose a hibernation scheme being allowed to restart a profession?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406140403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406140404	We attach enormous importance to animal welfare, and that is why we will not accept that mink growing is being carried out in Denmark, and of course we will not support it. How can this surprise the rapporteur? The rapporteur can, of course, go back and see how many times we have put forward a proposal here in the Chamber to dismantle mink growing, and we have then proposed it in a controlled way and in a much cheaper way than these 18 billion. kr., it's going to cost when you're in charge of Social Democracy. In other words, we clearly had a legal, controlled, slower winding-up of mink on our agenda, and we have had that for several years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406140440	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to speak out. Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406140516	Thank you for that, President. An historic scandal is probably what best characterises the whole story of the illegal order to the country's minkers, which the Prime Minister put out at the famous press conference on 4 November last year. Every mink must be killed, including the breeding animals, it was said. Far more than a thousand families had their lives, identity and profession destroyed and were sent out in total uncertainty. For generations they had contributed to the community by creating value for Denmark through taxes, export earnings, thousands of jobs, both directly and indirectly. World champions were mink growers, for the best mink came from Denmark, and the Danish mink achieved the absolute highest prices on the world market. Now they enjoy themselves in China and in Russia and in Sweden and elsewhere where mink is produced because the Danish mink production has been removed from the market. A true success story was, for waste from the fishing industry and slaughterhouses together with some Danish-produced grain constituted the feed for the minks. But now it's over. The Mink business must be compensated up to well over 19 billion. kr., and it will cost in the vicinity of 113 million. kr. to pay the farms out and expropriate them. It is then another chapter in the scandal. The government and the parties to the agreement have not tried to maintain mink breeding in Denmark sufficiently by ensuring that as many as possible continue with mink breeding after the end of the year. This then means that virtually all farms will be closed down, and that is why it will cost the taxpayers the huge amount of over 19 billion. kr. 19 billion. kr.! Let me remind you that all the new super-sickhouses built around the country amount to over 40 billion. kr. This is an exceptionally large amount. In addition, there is the loss of earnings from the approximately 6 000 jobs which disappear and which we are going to lack year after year. It's really a sad story. The government should certainly not be praised for stalling the claim. It is quite indecent that mink growers have now been without earnings for 5-6 months. Not even the money that growers were promised to put to death the minks, in order to kill them quickly, the so-called tempo bonus, has been guaranteed to be paid out. Is it reasonable to close people's businesses and then let them wait six months without seeing as much as a penny? I think it's obscene. Now we have a 37-page draft law which the Minister has sent in consultation here from 24 March to 31 March. So it is one week that mink growers, neighbouring companies, banks, credit associations, lawyers and other stakeholders are given to qualify for the bill. At the same time, it is a week when many of the consultation parties were supposedly on Easter holidays during the week before Easter. That is simply not right either. The bill is also packed with so many powers for the Minister that it may be quite difficult to know where it lands and therefore, of course, it should have had a much longer consultation period. I've got one of them. heard from the financial sector, which has a number of criticisms, and they point out that the proposal does not comply with section 73 of the Constitution, since creditors have made credit available both before the industry was shut down in November 2020, but also until now, from the minks were killed. These are loans granted by the financial sector in confidence in general rules on expropriation, securities, transport in advance, etc. would be respected. We Conservatives cannot therefore support the proposal on this basis because, as I said, it is far too uncertain. Of course, we support the payment of the money to mink farmers and neighbouring industries as soon as possible and, as I said, we believe that the money from minks, from killings, the tempo bonus, for cleaning and other things should have been paid too long, if at least in the form of a conto sum. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406141005	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406141031	The Mink case is one of the biggest legal scandals of recent times. The mere fact that police and military forces, without any explicit legal basis, forced mink killing through and at the same time made a bonus scheme so that mink farmers themselves could help to implement the unconstitutional decision is completely unparalleled in recent Danish history. The whole profession has had a common violent experience. The closure of the mink business has hit everyone unexpectedly and hard. There is no historical precedent as to what we are witnessing. The trade association of mink growers can tell that they in the association are daily contact with people who, at the closure of the profession, have lost their livelihood from one day to the next. Many are desperate for final clarification of their situation. I fully understand that this is a special situation in connection with the closure of the mink industry. The early payment of compensation to mink farmers must now be ensured. For this reason, it is also in the interests of the new citizens that the necessary rules should be put in place very quickly for dealing with matters, but also that the process should be carried out in a legal way according to the book, efficiently and flexibly, and, of course, against payment of full compensation to all those concerned. We welcome the fact that the legislative proposal extends the range of secondary industries that are entitled to compensation, but it is a very violent and far-reaching legislative proposal that we have before us on the killing of mink and the temporary ban on mink teams. First of all, the whole legislative process in relation to L 206 is far too hasty in relation to the importance of the matter. The consultation deadline has been ultra-short for the parties concerned. This seems to me to be quite unfair conditions to the mink industry, to all the parties concerned and to us as legislators here in the Folketing. These are incredibly difficult conditions in terms of being able to take a position on a political matter. In all cases, but especially in a case which already looks to be an historic scandal, all the legal principles must be respected. There are a lot of concerns in the answers to the hearings • very many. Some of the comments I would like to highlight give a picture of how many different issues are being drawn up. The bill suggests that the mink growers with whom the State has chosen to carry out a full expropriation also lose their production rights. It is argued that the proposal for a directive must be assessed in the light of the SMEs directive, as it has an impact on ammonia emissions, and whether or not this is generally considered to have a positive environmental benefit, it is obligatory to be subject to the SMEs Directive. And the bill isn't smv-rated. It is also apparent that the expropriated person is entitled, as a general rule, to replace the assets which form part of the lawful operation. In this particular situation, where the state first kills all mink and then tries to provide legal basis for the unconstitutional intervention, it must also be the responsibility of the state to investigate every case. The State shall not require injured persons to explain whether an asset is legal. This reverses the burden of proof in a situation where farms have been closed down. Perhaps there are documents etc. that are impossible or difficult to obtain or restore. The starting point must then of course be that the farm as a whole is legal. If the State is of a different opinion, i.e. that there are parts of the production that are not legal, it must be up to the State to prove it. It is important that mortgage and rights holders be involved in relation to mink holdings. The vast majority of mortgage banks' loans to mink growing are from before the closure of the business. The loans are normally secured by mortgages on mink-cultivars' operations and assets and crews, which constitute the majority of the values in the company. The draft law immediately provides for the payment of compensation, but with a derogation from the normal principle of the consent of the landlord. It puts the mortgages in a significantly different situation than in a normal expropriation situation. This said, I would like to conclude that L 206 contains plenty of potential problems, so at present New Citizens cannot take a position on L 206 in its existing form. But I look forward to further consideration in committee. The Minkkeepers and all interested parties must be given rapid clarification that respects all legal principles. But the work of the committee is also set to take place very quickly: a report must be submitted on Thursday, and we have not received a consultation note today, and then the idea is that it should be dealt with thirdly next week. It seems unfairly forced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406141547	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Will Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, be nice to have a drink? Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406141616	Thank you for the floor. The investigation of the mink case itself, as you can now call it, runs in its own tracks. There is a committee of inquiry to discharge the government's responsibility, and I also guess that there will be written shelves of books and theses about the corona epidemic and the mink case of future scientists and writers. These are some tracks which have already been mentioned by several rapporteurs, and I will not add anything to that. We agreed with the agreement, of which this bill is a further development, because we wanted to ensure that mink farmers were adequately and reasonably compensated for the losses they had suffered. This does not mean that we are in any way pre-empting or deciding what the Research Commission or the researchers and authors of the future will achieve. In our view, as I have said, this is an expression of fairness to a very, very hard-hit profession, and we want to lift that responsibility. That is why we are also pleased that the draft law here improves the agreement that has already been reached or to make a long story short: LA backs the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406141747	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why it is now the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406141808	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the speeches that have been made and for the important reflections and the good debate that have taken place in connection with the legislative proposal here. As has already been mentioned by many of the rapporteurs, the background here is that the government decided on 3 November last year that all minks in Denmark should be put down. It was a decision taken on the grounds of public health and on the basis of a new, reinforced risk assessment by the Statens Serum Institute. Here it was concluded and I a continued mink breeding during an ongoing covid-19 epidemic poses a significant risk to public health, including the possibility of preventing covid-19 with vaccines. It was a conclusion that the Danish Health Service later supported. The decision to introduce a temporary ban on mink teams was supported by a majority in the Folketing when the law on killing and temporary ban on mink teams was adopted on 21 December 2020. At the same time, the law on the killing and temporary prohibition of mink teams provided for the establishment of rules on compensation and compensation as a result of the killing of mink and the temporary ban on mink teams, i.e. the right to implement a political agreement on compensation and compensation for mink growers and mink-dependent follow-up industries. On 25 January 2021, the Government, together with a majority in the Folketing of the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, concluded an agreement on compensation and compensation for mink growers and secondary industries affected by covid-19. As is clear from the agreement, the temporary ban on the maintenance of mink has significant consequences for mink farmers and the associated secondary industries. This is in many ways a sad and unhappy situation for those affected, to which several rapporteurs have also expressed their sympathy. The parties to the agreement therefore agree that full compensation should be granted to mink growers and mink-dependent followers, regardless of whether or not there is legal expropriation under Article 73 of the Constitution. I would also like to give a small answer to Mr Seligman's question. Morten Messerschmidt, who has several times sought clarification. But we can take that back to the questioning round. With the political agreement, we are among other things. agree on the replacement models to be used in the measurement of total compensation for mink growers and followers. We also agree on who should be entitled to compensation and compensation according to the agreed replacement models. The aim of the draft law, which we are dealing with first here today, is to provide the legal basis for implementing parts of the political agreement on compensation and compensation, which are not already authorised to translate into the law on the killing and temporary ban of mink, which was adopted on 21 December 2020. Thus, the draft law does not provide for specific models of compensation to be used to measure compensation and compensation. The homepage to translate agreed replacement models is part of the law adopted before Christmas. The agreed replacement models will be implemented in a notice after prior involvement of the parties to the agreement. The parts of the political agreement provided for in the draft law are the agreed extension of the circle of eligible secondary occupations, the requirements for environmental permits, etc. and rules on the takeover of the State, etc. and access to replaced and compensated assets. With this draft law, we ensure that rules can also be laid down on compensation for two specific types of company mentioned in the agreement. This means that the authority in force in Paragraph 8 (3) of the Act. 3 is extended to include: Point 1: Persons and companies that rent barn and cage capacity to Danish minkavl, but where the company as a whole is not essentially dependent on minkavl in Denmark. The extension of the provision will make it possible to lay down rules for compensation for house and cage capacity, irrespective of whether the barn etc. is owned by the mink breeder himself or rented to mink breeding. Also included: Item 2: Pelseries serving Danish mink growers, but where the furry is part of a company where mink growing is also operated in Denmark and the furry is thus not organisationally separated into a separate downstream business. Detailed rules on the criteria for compensation and compensation will be laid down in a notice. The concrete assessment of whether the criteria have been met must be carried out by the special commissions for compensation and tax relief to be set up. It is also clear from the political agreement that, in order to be entitled to compensation and compensation, there have been the relevant environmental permits, etc. to the animals produced, the minks or the production, i.e. the following industries. However, the agreement does not specify exactly which licences are to be made available. There is therefore a need for the closer model to be clarified in dialogue with the parties to the agreement. In view of this, it proposes an authorisation clause in the draft law to ensure that we can subsequently lay it down in the contract circle. Then, in the draft law, we have a number of provisions relating to the acquisition by the State of rights over the assets for which compensation or compensation has been granted, and provisions relating to the State's access to these assets with a view, inter alia, to: demolition or other disposal, etc. This is essentially due to the fact that once compensation or compensation has been received from the State, ownership of the replaced or compensated assets is transferred to the State. Let me make it clear that, of course, the state only takes over assets for which the State has provided compensation or compensation. And let me also elaborate on what is contained in the draft law. The agreed compensation scheme involves the demolition and removal of the buildings and associated building installations, etc. that have been replaced or compensated. The mink grower keeps his land. They are not taken over by the State and therefore no compensation is paid. In relation to secondary occupations, there will be cases where buildings etc. can be used. for other purposes, e.g. auction houses or factory buildings. In these cases, the State must be able to compensate for taking over the entire building, including the land, unless the company does not provide compensation for any part of the real estate. In the case of resale companies in which there is a dwelling, the starting point would be to provide for compensation for the related activity which corresponds to the impairment due to the fact that there is no longer mink-related business on the property. However, it will be possible for the State to take over the entire real estate, including the owner's residence, if the successor undertaking so wishes. The draft law also concerns other elements of importance for the implementation of the political agreement, which is not directly provided for in the agreement. This is among other things. elements relating to patent rights and the costs incurred by mink growers and followers in the intervening period, pending the closure of individual cases by the Commissions for Compensation and Taxation. There are elements relating to the administration and processing of the claims and compensation cases and to the special commissions for compensation and compensation to be set up. I would just like to briefly outline some of these elements of the draft law - first on patent rights: there will be cases where mortgage holders have rights over immovable property or movable property that will be included in the measurement of compensation and compensation. Therefore, the proposed draft law provides for rules on the distribution of compensation and compensation between rightholders. The intention is to lay down rules to ensure that all impairments of mortgages and any other rights are fully compensated. However, in the light of the consultation proposals for the draft law received, the Government wishes to table a few amendments to this effect. The Ministry has considered that there is a need to table an amendment to the proposed § 8 paragraph. 9, in order to extend the power to lay down rules on the distribution of compensation and compensation between rightholders so that it is clear that rules can be laid down on the date on which the rights are to be valued. The authorisation is intended to provide for the valuation of the mortgage to be carried out in such a way that the impairment of the mortgage is determined in relation to the value of the mortgage at the time, before the covid-19 hit the mink industry, that is, at the same time as the compensation or compensation to mink growers and followers will be based on. It is also intended that the authorisation should be used to lay down detailed rules on the distribution between rightholders, respecting the original order of priority. It should also be made clear that it is intended to apply the authorisation to lay down rules that the payment of advances on compensation and compensation will require the consent of any landlords, etc. The Government will also propose amendments to the proposed provision of Paragraph 8 (1). 8, which states that claims for compensation and compensation cannot be transferred until the claim has been made, must be deleted. The purpose of the deletion of the provision is to ensure continued financing, as are transport contracts in advance for compensation, etc. may be concluded in connection with the consent of the landlords. In addition, it is proposed that an authorisation should be introduced for the establishment of rules on compensation for reasonable costs incurred by mink growers and followers during the period leading to the final determination of compensation and compensation. The reason is that there may be a need for mink growers or follow-up industries to bear the costs of ensuring the activities that will later be covered by the measurement of total compensation or compensation, for example. insurance premiums or necessary maintenance of movable property. The detailed model for covering expenditure in the interim period will have to be discussed in detail within the contract circle, since no decision has been taken on this in the political agreement. So that is something we will come back to with the rapporteurs who are in the agreement. The draft law also proposes the introduction of authorisation to lay down rules that are appropriate to support effective processing and management of compensation schemes. I would like to start by stating that the good dialogue with stakeholders is intended to continue in order to ensure that these rules are designed in a way that makes sense for mink growers and followers. The authorization provisions shall include, inter alia: the possibility of laying down requirements for applications, deadlines, information and documentation requirements and requirements for auditor's declaration, as well as rules on digital communication. It is intended that, among other things: set deadlines for applications for compensation and compensation, including the application for advance payments for the final closure compensation. Reasonable deadlines will be set, as I said, in dialogue with the industry. In addition, the draft law provides for an authorisation to lay down rules on the submission of statements of belief and law under criminal liability. This will also facilitate the handling of cases and, hopefully, make it easier for mink growers. In addition, it is proposed to introduce a provision requiring the Danish fur grower association, at the request of the Danish Food Authority, to provide details of the sales and settlement of mink growers at the Danish Fur grower association for the purpose of dealing with the matter of compensation and compensation to mink growers. The provision is intended to ensure that there is a basis for processing under the data protection rules of the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority to obtain information on skin indices from the Danish fur breeding association and at the same time have the Danish fur breeding association pass this information on. In addition, it proposes, inter alia: an authorization to lay down detailed rules for the replacement and tax commissions to be set up; that is to say, rules on their activities and on secretarial assistance. Detailed rules may also be laid down on the right to appeal against decisions of the Commission and, where appropriate, judicial review before the courts have been exhausted. This is a model before the special commissions for compensation and tax relief, which must be discussed with the contracting circle before the model is put into effect by means of a notice. In addition, it proposes the introduction of an authorisation to lay down rules on complaints and redress. Similarly, a provision is proposed on the right of appeal to the Environmental and Food Complaints Board, with which the decisions taken by the FDA will be subject to appeal to the FDA. In this way, the prosecution will be the same as under the law on the keeping of animals. And I'm getting close to the end. This is a tough round. The draft law therefore brings us a step closer to the framework for us to begin a new chapter by issuing the rules that will give effect to the political agreement on compensation, etc. to the minkkeepers and follow-up occupations. The government hopes that the Folketing will agree to this bill and I look forward to the committee reading and thank you for the debate. I have heard the various comments that have been made in this Chamber that it is an equally quite short period of time that has been made available here in relation to the consideration of this draft law, and that is why we have sought to take account of some more time. That is why we have postponed the second reading until 20 April so that there will be better time to deal with these things. As it also emerged, I hope, from this rather too long speech, that there will be a number of points where we will take in the conciliation parties and agree with them, and there will then be an opportunity to do so. It's more, so you realize there's gonna be plenty of time to get to the bottom of this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143437	Thank you, Minister. There's a lot of substance to it, I could hear. That is why there is full acceptance that all the speaking time plus a little more was spent. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143451	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. It is my assessment that it is quite unlikely that mink breeding can be restarted in 2022, due to the health risk that will still be gone, and because corona will probably still be away in our society in some way, and in general there are some health risks associated with mink growing, regardless of how much corona we have in our society. Therefore, I just want to hear from the Minister whether the government has started the work that would have to be done if you are in a scenario where the mink farmers who choose the hibernation model cannot even start in 2022. Has preparatory work begun so that we can have a smooth process there, if we now make a choice that we should not be able to operate mink farming in 2022 either?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143538	First of all, it must be stressed that the situation in November was about the risk to our public health. That's why we had to knock down this mink. So it was a temporary situation. After all, we sincerely hope that we will be on the other side of the risk when we come one year further forward, and that is what is at the root of the legislation. It is clear that we are following this very closely and are trying to be best prepared for a situation in which it may not be the case that health is under control. As part of the agreement that was made in the Folketing just before Christmas, which was about the excavation of the buried pop up-mink, it was also agreed to follow these zoonotic diseases more closely, and we are also doing this work. So we're trying to prepare ourselves best because it's obvious that the preparation that was up to this situation wasn't good enough. We just didn't see it coming. So we try to do our best to prepare ourselves for such a situation as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143643	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143644	I think that makes a lot of sense. Of course it was for health reasons that all the minks were killed. After all, there are no parties here in the Danish Parliament who have suggested that all minks should be killed so drastically for reasons other than health. So of course it's the same from here. I think it is a good thing that the government is preparing because I can easily imagine a scenario where we will never get mink breeding in Denmark again, and if we are to tell the mink farmers that they cannot start up again, I think it is important that we are ready to also ensure compensation for those who have now chosen the hibernation scheme and a smooth transition so that people can get on with doing something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143719	Thank you for those comments. From the government's point of view, as I mentioned earlier, the only thing that has been at the heart of public health has been public health. We have had no wish to harm this profession, which, as I think the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, has built up a very special status in the world as some of the best minkers at all. So it has been very unhappy that we have come into this situation. We hope, of course, that we can continue with those who are left without health risks, but we will follow it closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143749	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143753	Why is it that the Minister says that there has been no desire to harm this profession when two of the government's support parties openly say that this is an expropriative intervention?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143807-2	As mentioned, we were in the very scary and unhappy situation that the best advice was that there was a risk of continuing to have mink. That is why it was decided to take the drastic step of knocking down the minks simply to prevent people from getting into health problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143827	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143829	But it's all about what kind of purpose you go into a case with. I just want to know if the Minister can hear that it sounds strange if the Minister's own support parties say and one of them, in other words the SF, has an open desire that there should be no mink production in Denmark, and the Minister now says that it was the opposite of what the government really wanted. When the Radicals and the SF say it was quite obvious expropriation, it doesn't add up. Does the Minister think it was expropriation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143901	After all, we have had to summon the higher legal powers to get an assessment of this issue. And it is the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that the killing of mink and the temporary ban on the holding of mink as a result of covid-19 will not in general constitute expropriative action against traders. However, whether expropriation is possible in individual specific cases will be based on a specific assessment on a case-by-case basis. That's what the Justice Department's assessment is. That is why, when we made the agreement, we chose to say that we are giving a full and complete compensation as if it were an expropriation, but in all cases there isn't, at least not according to what the Ministry of Justice says.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406143948	So thank you to the Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Thank you for getting ready for the next speaker. On this matter, no more people have asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406144020	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party and is Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406144036	Despite the fact that many Danes today have the opportunity to save themselves or are covered by an occupational pension, there are still a great many Danes who today only have their folk pension and ATP to fall back on. For those people, the check from ATP is a very important addition to the folk pension. In the Social Democratic Party we are concerned to ensure that the value that the ATP has for pensioners today is also guaranteed in the future. The legislative proposal, which we are now considering, is about a change in ATP's business model, which is currently challenged by the expected continued low level of interest rates. By maintaining an unchanged business model, it will over time create the risk that the level and real value of members' pensions will be significantly reduced. Therefore, on the basis of the thorough analysis of ATP, we can recommend the two concrete amendments to the Labour Market Supplementary Pension Act in order to adapt ATP's business model to take into account a longer period of both low interest and low return. The first amendment concerns the adjustment of the pension product in respect of future contribution The change means that up to 25%. the future guarantee contribution may be invested in assets with a higher expected return, but also with a risk, up to an appropriate number of years before retirement. ATP Livslang Pension will, as it is today, be guaranteed in relation to the lifetime of the deposit date for the full guarantee contribution. The second amendment concerns an amended hedging strategy which concerns the savings. It is proposed that the risk-taking framework for ATP's hedging portfolio should be amended in order to allow ATP to assume a longer-term higher investment risk and therefore also an expected higher return. The amended hedging strategy does not affect the guarantees. It is the expectation of the Social Democrats that an increased room for manoeuvre for investment will continue to accommodate assets that promote the green transition or support social development more widely, as is the case today. It is also expected that with the changes to ATP's business model, we will increase investment scope and allow for a larger overall ATP Livslang Pension, while ATP will continue to provide financial security for ATP's members. ATP's current business model has so far delivered some good results and gained international recognition for hedging the interest rate risk of the guarantees. ATP is a simple, cheap and collectively guaranteed product. However, the current model is also challenged by the low interest rate level, and therefore there is a need to make some adjustments so that the business model continues to be sustainable in the future. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406144357	Thank you. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406144429	Low and falling interest rates have been a reality in recent years, and all the indications are that the low interest rate level will apply for several years in the future. This challenges ATP's ability to continue providing relevant lifelong and guaranteed pensions, which accompany price developments and the rise in Danes' life expectancy. This is the background to this bill. Today approx. 40% by the pensionists no other basis than the ATP and the national pension. ATP is part of the economic well-being, and for the Left, it is crucial that ATP has the framework to ensure a good return. The Left is concerned to ensure security about the Danish pension savings, so they have the certainty that their pension payments are managed safely and with a good return. Specifically, the draft law proposes that ATP be given the opportunity to invest more freely and thus to create higher pensions by taking a longer-term investment risk. Left can support that ATP's Board of Directors can take an increased risk in its investments. It is a natural development in the light of the very low interest rates over the past many years to allow ATP to increase the risk of its investments in order to generate sufficient returns for savings. As I said earlier, the supplementary pension of the labour market continues to play a key role for many pensioners, and it is therefore important that ATP has the best possible framework conditions so that ATP can deliver a reasonable return for the benefit of its members. With these words, the Left can vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406144602	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are also no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left. And thank you very much for just getting ready for the next rapporteur, who is from the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406144625	Thank you for that, President. This bill of amendment to the ATP must ensure that ATP can provide a high return to their members. After all, the members are all paying up to the ATP, where you pay up 20%. Even the 80 per cent and the employers the 80 per cent. It is a wish from ATP's board that you are allowed to change it so that you can invest up to 25%. as green investments. But this doesn't change the fact that ATP obviously has to make sure that you get as high a return as possible to the members, and we have to remember that for 40%. of those who pay to the ATP, ATP, when they retire, is the only additional pension they have in addition to the national pension. And that's actually a high number: 40%. of those entitled to receive ATP. It must, of course, be ensured that they can still get a good return when they retire. The Danish People's Party has had some concerns about the law in relation to FSA's access to control. We have been given a good explanation of this during the technical review, which shows that the FSA is still able to control ATP's investments in this regard and what is going on there. I guess this is done by reporting to the Minister for Employment. All in all, however, I think it is an excellent proposal that helps to ensure that people can still get a good return on their ATP, and then I will not tire more of anything the two previous rapporteurs have said, other than saying that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406144828	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments here either. The next rapporteur will be ready, and that is Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party. And there's the booze and the whole thing is welcome!
ParlaMint-DK_20210406144846	It may make sense to give the ATP some greater freedoms, among others. in relation to investing in shares. However, we have some doubts about the fact that the bonus is not attributed to everyone, but only to those who have retired. And we do not actually fully understand the arguments for restricting the role of the FSA. It is clear that there is another basis for assessing ATP's actions if the law is passed, but I do not actually see why the FSA should not continue to control the discussions. After all, the distribution of bonuses is more a political issue, but that does not mean that anything is responsible. We will be asking a number of different clarification questions during the committee's reading and therefore only later on on how we are finally going to deal with the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406144939	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge, and also thanks for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406144956	Thank you very much. The bill here is about a change in ATP's business model, and it is basically about the fact that for a long time we have had a low interest rate level and continue to look into having a low interest rate level. This increases the need for adjustments to the law so that a good return on ATP's investments can continue to be secured for the benefit of ATP's members and, of course, particularly for the benefit of the 40% who only have ATP in addition to the national pension, as has been mentioned by other rapporteurs. Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406145039	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. The next rapporteur is on the verge of jumping. It is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406145105	After all, those who are now pensioners are all from a time when there was no occupational pension or how very few had it and when the earnings were small and slender. That's why it's important what's going on with ATP. The 40 per cent mentioned, who only have the ATP and the national pension, are deeply dependent on it. But then we also have a large and growing labour market of unemployed workers and solo self-employed people, who will still depend on ATP in the future too, and who are therefore dependent on a lifelong pension subsidy. The growing inequality we see in our society is accentuating through retirement, and here the ATP can become a stabilising factor. Now, the board of directors of ATP then proposes that they be given the opportunity to invest part of the wealth more risky, and there is a certain logic in that. When ordinary interest rates are as low as they are now, it may be difficult to maintain the real value of pension payments, and therefore it makes sense to allow a smaller part of the wealth to be invested on other terms. However, this must mean that if interest rates rise again, it may be wise to return to previous investment principles. This is something that I would like to ask whether the Minister is waiting to happen. But I can see if I can get an answer to that. Now ATP is very special in that you cannot simply withdraw your money from the system and that it is a very large proportion of the population that contributes to ATP's wealth, and this means that it has a strong social function, even though the construction is such that ATP is itself owned. That is why there are also a number of social requirements that ATP should be subject to and which should be managed in a transparent and open manner, including the possibility of access to documents. That is also something I would like to ask the Minister, in other words, whether the Minister will ensure that there will be. Here it is important to monitor compliance with the principles. Investment methods must be openly developed and social demands must be made on the principles of content. Then there's a few small points. I'll say, yes, it's okay. to distinguish between old and new members in the case of bonus payments. It almost gives itself because they have very different conditions during their earning period, in relation to whether they have arrived before or after the 1990s. I have therefore advocated openness in administration and access to documents and things like that, but where is monitoring and control? It is, of course, necessary to clarify this when embarking on more risky investments. But I assume that's what the FSA is going to continue to work on. There is no point in referring to previous controls, since this is a new possibility of risk investment. Then there is the issue of deferment of payouts and the limit on capitalisation. It is said that there are actually 4,800 Members who cannot be contacted. That's a problem. This is probably due to the fact that they have travelled abroad, but I would ask the Minister to ensure that there is relevant information, possibly an issue of a written proof of a claim on possible departure. Such a thing is, of course, quite parallel to the conditions of frozen holiday resorts. There is also a large group that you cannot get in touch with. That is enough because there has not been any relevant information before the persons concerned possibly left. Then there is the question of the death benefit, which is not provided for in the legislative text. It is quite okay that nothing needs to be changed every time, but on the other hand it might be nice to know which principles you want to establish it. Then there is just the last question in relation to ATP's authorisation to cancel amounts due. There I liked to know what could be typical arguments for it. After all, the desire of ATP itself to change the principles of investment and all the necessary legislation is a good opportunity to open up the discussion on whether ATP is fulfilling its social functions, and that is probably why we have a resolution from then on, in which we have to deal with some things that are parallel to it. However, it can also be questioned whether ATP should continue to act as an administrative trash can for all sorts of tasks that do not really have anything to do with the ATP's purpose, i.e. for example. to manage frozen holiday money or organize contagion tracking and stuff like that. Then I would like to say that I think it is important to have a discussion on the content of the changed investment principles. Now everyone is saying that there must be an opportunity to invest green, yes, opportunity, but I would like to have a guarantee that that is what is happening, and I would like to have a guarantee that that is what is under control, and if you cannot get a guarantee for it, then I would like a guarantee that it is certainly not black investment. in the oil industry, in the coal industry, in the arms industry and things like that. It is typically such places where you can get a really high return, and it looks really good, but we cannot help a social institution like ATP contributing to that. I am just waiting to say how we feel about this, because it depends on the answers given by the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406145613	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406145634	Thank you, President. ATP has long been involved in ensuring security in Denmark as an important part of our pension system. Current and future pensioners are guaranteed a supplement throughout their lives. ATP Livslang Pension is thus a pillar of the Danish welfare system. In order to provide the best pension for Danes in the future, ATP needs this change of law. The low interest rates and the high life expectancy make it more expensive for ATP to ensure real value, and this change of law will make it easier for them to adapt to the circumstances with which they meet in today's and the future's economic situation. There is no prospect of higher interest rates and, fortunately, there is no prospect of a lower life expectancy. So this proposal gives ATP better opportunities to adapt to the changing world in which we live, which can give Danes greater financial security. So the bill makes a lot of sense, and that is why the Conservative People's Party supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406145751	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and there is therefore an opportunity to prepare for the next rapporteur, who comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406145805	There is no doubt that, historically, ATP has played an important role and that it is a player who has helped to ensure that the economic basis for many citizens was at a higher level than if they had only had a retirement pension. But this proposal is also about securing the next generations and looking forward to those who are now entering the ATP, and there we are in New Citizens of a slightly different attitude, so that you might have to look at whether ATP as a common pension fund for everyone has played out its role. We still believe that it may be important for some, but that it should be the sort of thing to force all Danish citizens into and pay for, we think it is an outdated way of thinking when you think about how people today communicate and how they themselves handle their pensions. And we believe that this can be done much more flexibly than there is in such a centralist system as in the ATP. Now ATP wants to change their business model here. Various manoeuvres have been made in the past in the ATP to ensure that the low interest rate level did not hit them, and they have done so successfully. I am thinking of the leverages they have had in the bonus portfolio, where they have leveraged those things, which is high-risk, and we have talked to people who are against shortening and leverage and everything else for private people in the past, but it is obviously a little different when ATP does so. Where we're a little nervous about this is to say if there's some kind of politicization coming in on this, when we're talking about green investments. ATP's task is to provide the best return alone. Then there may well be cases where you make a green investment, where at the same time it is the best investment. Of course there may be cases where there aren't, and there we need to have a complete framework that doesn't count on creating the greatest return for the citizens in this. And we are still a little nervous about that, and we have some questions on this before we finally take a position on what we basically think about this particular bill. This does not change our view that we believe that the ATP for current pensioners is important and that it has historically played an important role, but when we look into the future labour market, we do not believe that it has the same important role.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150033	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I see no rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, so I can give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150047	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteurs for the comments on this important bill. As several speakers have said, the draft law here creates the framework for maintaining the ATP as a guaranteed lifelong pension, which continues to constitute a genuine supplement to the retirement pension. I think that is important. The adjustments in ATP's business model are necessary to equip ATP for a longer period of expected low interest rates and returns. In other words, the changes must help to ensure the real value of the funds, and I think it is important that we bear in mind the role of the ATP. ATP, together with the old-age pension, is an important part of the economic well-being of the country's folk pensioners. This is particularly true in the nature of the approx. 40% by the pensioners, who have only the retirement pension and the ATP as a substitute. The proposal gives the board of directors of ATP greater scope to invest the funds against an expected higher return. At the same time, the board of directors of ATP will have a clear framework for when bonuses can be awarded to pensioners alone. This increases the possibilities for the ATP to ensure the real value of members' pension rights, both those who have some time to retirement age and those who are already old-age pensioners. ATP's Board of Directors, with the proposal and the possibility of further risking part of the investment, will also be given greater opportunity to continue with responsible investments, including: promote the green transition or support social development more broadly. I think that is important too. Then, of course, you might ask why the proposal does not require the ATP to invest more green. Firstly, the ATP Board, where the social partners are represented, is responsible for the investment in ATP. It is a model that, overall, has worked well since the creation of the ATP in 1964 and has created good returns for the benefit of all who have paid for the ATP. Secondly, we must remember that the main purpose of ATP is precisely to interest pensions, among other things. so that they can follow the price and wage developments in society, and not to invest in specific industries. Of course, this does not prevent the ATP from investing greener and greener too, and I know that ATP has done so, but, as I said, it is ATP who is responsible for assessing when the two considerations can go hand in hand. Finally, I would just like to point out that the proposal is based on a recommendation from an agreed ATP board which supports proposed changes and I am pleased that the social partners support the proposal very broadly. I would like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to the further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150341	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and that is from Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150345	Well then, I would like to ask whether it is possible to provide a guarantee that there will be no black investment in ATP's new risk-bearing investments. I have explained in my rapporteur's speech what I mean by that. It was a question. I am putting another straight away, and it is the question of the administration in transparency, i.e. whether access to the transactions made by ATP can also be included, after all, as an independent institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150417	Thank you. I believe that it is first and foremost only important to highlight once again, and this is, whether it concerns specific requirements for green investment or whether it concerns guarantees that there are no black investments • that ATP is, as Mrs Jette Gottlieb herself says, a self-serving institution and has a board of directors which determines the investment policy. The overall aim of ATP is to ensure the best possible pensions, and this is particularly important for the approx. 40% who have nothing but a retirement pension and an ATP. Having said that, there is no doubt that with the legislative changes here today, there is an increased possibility that ATP will be able to make investments that are more risky, which green investment will be well along the way. Neither in the legislative proposal nor for that matter can I give guarantees that you will not invest in anything specific. But what we can see, and ATP has also openly said in public, is that you move away from investments in the sectors referred to and towards investments in, fortunately, more green direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150527	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150528	Now I'm a member of the company. In other pension schemes I have the opportunity to attend a general meeting and announce my position on what investments should be made and that is what I am trying to do here. Because it is in fact here that one expresses one's wishes as a Member, and I think one can say that if that is the case. But I would like to know what other people's views on that are. So, to the end, I would like to ask: that is the fact that, if interest rates are rising again, there is a mechanism to ensure that the previous investment principles are applied, or if the percentage of risk investment is to be maintained, is there a mechanism to ensure that if interest rates rise above something, you will go back to the principles of the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150620	No automatic mechanism has been set up, but all of this work and this proposal has also been made by the board of directors of ATP after a very long and thorough analysis of, on the one hand, how the market has been and, on the other hand, how the market is developing. Therefore, with what we can see in the sun, moon or stars, there is no prospect that the interest rates would be so high that one suddenly had to think that it would be necessary to step back to the level of covered investments that one has today. However, it is clear that it is the board of directors of the ATP that, in that situation, must also take that into account. What is the nature of the bill is, of course, both a prerequisite for helping to secure future ATP beneficiaries the returns that they should be able to expect and are entitled to, and also for ensuring that ATP can invest in wider portfolios, including, among other things, the ATP. Green investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150727	The next brief remark is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150729	Thank you. I have two questions. One is: why do we not do it voluntarily to pay for the ATP, so why should it be a requirement? It's voluntary whether you're a member of an A-box or something. Why don't you do it voluntarily?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150746	I think that is a reasonable political point of view. This is not a political point of view, either personally or for that matter the government shares. We do not, because we can see that ATP has been a really, really important and really, really good supplement for folk pensioners for many years. And that is still the case for, in reality, surprisingly many old-age pensioners who have nothing but a retirement pension and an ATP next door.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150815	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150816	I agree with that. So if they find it has a value, they can do it. The question is: why do you want to force people who do not think it has a value, that is, people who would rather manage it themselves or want to put it in another pension company? Why should they be forced into the ATP if they think they can get a better return somewhere else? I don't want to keep people who think it's a good idea to use ATP from using ATP, but why do people have to be forced into it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150838	Originally, as a society, we have chosen to say that this is a good collective way of guaranteeing all pensioners, no matter what course of events they may have in their lives; no matter what income they end up having when they retire and that, as such, they also have a guaranteed amount all the way forward that they are at some point no longer. It has proven for many years, especially in recent years, that the volume that you can build up in such a large pension fund also contributes to creating really large returns for all old-age pensioners in Denmark. This is something that we, on the part of the government and also of the Social Democrats, warmly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150922	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150924	Yes, thank you. And when I ask for the floor, it is in relation to an answer that the Minister gave to Mrs Jette Gottlieb about this with the risky, that is, if it becomes more risky, it is good because green investment is more risky than black investment. I would just like to ask the Minister to clarify this, in other words whether the Minister believes that it is safer to invest in oil, gas and coal than, for example, in the energy sources of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406150952	No, it was misunderstood, or at least I made a mistake. However, it is more risky to invest in, for example, green projects or companies that live on green solutions and have shares than investing in bonds, for example. And that is what the bill opens up, namely that a greater proportion of the entire investment framework can be used to invest in shares rather than in secured bonds.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406151021	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406151022	But now you can ensure that your investments are green, both in relation to bonds and shares. So it was just to get rid of the misunderstanding that investing in green companies, bonds and shares should be more uncertain than investing in blacks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406151039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406151041	It certainly isn't. And I actually think, and it is with the reservation that I remember the analysis wrong that Standard & Poor's at one point made an inventory of how the trend in returns over the last 25 years had been in a number of different areas where it can be seen that investments in coal, for example, were made, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist will describe as black investments, has given less return than green investments. So I do not think you should hear what I said before as an expression that it is better to invest black. It was only an answer that ATP will be given with this law in order to be able to invest in shares and in projects, which at the same time also pose a greater risk of losses, regardless of the purpose of the investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406151136	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no more brief comments to the Minister for Employment. And the Minister does not need to clean the platform, since the Minister needs to get up in a minute. However, no one else has asked to speak on this matter, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406151206	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406151222	Thank you very much. After all, this resolution is a beautiful extension of the legal procedure we had just before, and it is the Socialist People's Party that has tabled the resolution which intends to oblige the ATP to phase out investments in companies that receive more than 5% by 2023. Secondly, in its investment policy, the ATP refers explicitly to and works according to the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and thirdly, that the ATP withdraws investment from arms and other military equipment companies to nations that wage war in violation of international law. Specifically, it is proposed that the Danish Parliament amend the ATP Act so that ATP's investments are regulated in the future according to the guidelines I just mentioned. The motion for a resolution is a partial re-submission of Mr Seligman's report. Rasmus Nordqvist's previous motion for a resolution, which we last discussed in December 2019. When we had the debate at the time, I saw that there was broad support for the green transition to be speeded up. Fortunately, this is an agenda shared by many of us, not only at Christiansborg, but also among the Danes, which has enabled the government to reach a broad agreement in December last year to set an end date for the extraction of gas and oil in the North Sea as well as for the cancellation of the eighth round of invitations to tender as well as all future invitations to tender. With the agreement, we are the country with the largest oil and gas production that has so far taken such a step. The North Sea Agreement is a step in the right direction and even a very big step, but in order to achieve objectives, everyone, including ATP, needs to think and invest green. However, from the common understanding and to change the basics of the ATP Act, in relation to who determines the investments, there is a significant difference. When the Danish Parliament set up the ATP in 1964, it was to introduce a supplement to the national pension for which all employees saved up. With an increasing life expectancy, the ATP scheme has become no less relevant, either for the individual or for society. Today it's 90 percent. by the Danes, who deposit to ATP. ATP is thus a very important part of the economic security of pensioners, especially for the 40 per cent. of the Danes, who exclusively have the ATP contribution as a supplement to the folkpension. In other words, it is important that ATP retains its relevance and that ATP ensure a sensible return on funds so that pensions can keep up with wage and price developments in society. The funds are managed by ATP, which, as an independent, self-governing institution, is managed by its own board of directors and board of directors, both being elected by the social partners and thus representing both employees and employers. The ATP Act requires the Board of Directors to manage the funds in the interests of its members, both to ensure that the ATP pension follows wage and price developments and to ensure that the funds match social development and social interests, but we do not regulate a method under the ATP Act, and thus we have not set a framework for how ATP invests or not to invest, as proposed by the proposers. The fundamental question, then, is whether we in the Folketing are best at managing and investing pension funds in accordance with ATP's assets, or whether we are confident that a board appointed by the social partners can ensure an ongoing adjustment of the ATP funds so that they are managed in the interests of members, including, of course, in the interests of society. I have noted that the rapporteur for the proposers asked several rapporteurs in the Chamber when we had the debate for the first time in 2016: how long do you dare wait before we ensure a green transition? And this is a relevant question, because it is important that we as Danes take an interest in how our pension companies, including ATP, invest our savings. And that is why I would like to reiterate that ATP has committed itself to practicing active ownership and social responsibility in relation to its investments. Before today's debate, I asked the ATP to state what it has had to do with the green area. ATP states that they both continuously delimit their investment universe by excluding companies with large CO2 In addition, ATP is the largest Danish investor in green bonds with almost 30 billion. kr. and with a target for 2021 to hit 50 billion. kr. in sustainable bonds. The rapporteur has since last extended his motion for a resolution to include the requirement not to invest in companies that trade arms with nations that act against international law. In relation to the Yemeni conflict, the government has a clear line that arms and military equipment should not be exported from Denmark to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates as long as the products risk being used in the Yemeni conflict. ATP has informed me that they are continuously screening their portfolio in order to ensure that national legislation, international conventions with Denmark's accession and EU and UN sanctions are respected, and that is a good thing, because of course we also expect ATP promises. Thus, there is already room for both sustainable and human-law investments, as well as sensible returns. In addition, with the proposed amendments to the ATP Act, which we dealt with just now, ATP will have a larger space to continue making responsible investments in assets that promote the green transition or support social development wider. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406151849	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406151853	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I had actually hoped that I could say thank you for the support for a very good proposal, but that was not the case. The minister says it's about whether you think the Folketing is best at managing and investing. That's not what this is about. This is about setting up a framework for management and investment, and that is actually what we are asking the government to propose with this proposal. So it's just to get rid of that misunderstanding. Then I would like to hear from the Minister about this active ownership. Do you think it's a success? How fast is ATP moving from fossil investments to green ones, for example? For example, how fast is it going to get out of companies that feed on weapons for an illegal war in Yemen? Is it going fast enough? Is the Minister satisfied with that development in the ATP?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406151949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406151950	In relation to the first part of the question or comment that I actually heard it as, I just think it is important to keep in mind all the time that this is about a balance between different considerations. And the emphasis on ATP's purpose is to interest pension savings on behalf of all employees throughout Denmark and then, of course, to do so on various grounds, but to ensure return, so that the very poorest pensioners are guaranteed something when they get older. It must also go hand in hand with what is the emphasis on Rasmus Nordqvist's motion for a resolution, namely that it is socially responsible, that it is increasingly greener and that it is doing so with a view to the responsibility of all the many conventions, etc. of which Denmark is a part.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152050	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152051	I actually asked very specifically whether the Minister thinks that this so-called active ownership is going fast enough, because again and again the stories are coming up about some investments going the other way in relation to the policy that Denmark is at least pursuing in terms of foreign policy or climate policy. So does the Minister think that it is acceptable that we should have compulsory savings, because we are all, as employees, helping to pay for the ATP and so cannot disallow us from participating in the investments that are being made? Is it okay that then investments have been made that are not in line with Danish policy, for example on phasing out oil and gas production in the North Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152131	I think it can be difficult to stand here and judge whether something goes too fast or too slow. What I note with satisfaction, on the other hand, is that ATP has a very, very big focus on this, and just to make a few points of impact, I would say that ATP continually demarcates their so-called investment universe and the companies in which they can invest. And in relation to the green transition, I would say that in 2019 tar sand producers were removed and by 2020 25 oil and gas companies have been excluded from their investment universe. Both have been selected on the basis of analyses of CO2 In addition, ATP has also chosen to stop new illiquid investments in fossil extraction by the end of 2019. It's just to mention some examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152224	The next brief remark is to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152227	It is quite obvious that it is good that ATP is moving; it is really fine. However, just as those who have private pension savings can define how their pension funds should invest their pension funds, it is natural that, on behalf of precisely what the Minister has mentioned several times, 90%, we should do so. If the people who put their money into such a savings also provide a framework for how to invest ■ just as you can do it privately, then we must do it socially. For the exercise is, of course, that we are moving from the eternal talk at the overall level, where we all agree that we must address the climate crisis, the natural crisis and the environmental crisis, and down to the concrete level of making changes in everyday life. That's why, I think, we need to set up these frames so we can make sure that this movement actually continues at ATP.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152316	Well, basically, I do not disagree at all with the fact that we have to make sure that we move some of the biggest investors in particular, and what I note with satisfaction as the top responsibility for that area, at least as far as ATP is concerned, is that this movement is in progress and that it is actually going very fast in these years, and with the legislative proposal we were discussing just now, even more opportunities will be opened for investment to be made. In addition, ATP is on Danish soil the largest Danish investor in green bonds with investments of almost 30 billion. kr., and by 2021 they have set themselves a target to hit 50 billion. kr. in sustainable bonds. This is all something that contributes fundamentally to the green transition, both at home, but also in other countries that offer similar products.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152411	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152412	I would just like to start by confirming the joy that there has been this development. However, what I think it stands and falls a little by is whether you take full responsibility for yourself as a minister, as a government or as a society and say that this is our common money, and that we therefore also set up an investment strategy for that money, which you can do in private with your private pension fund. It was quite natural to say here that we want to speak not only at the overall level, and that we want to move according to certain points, both in relation to climate, nature and the environment, but also in relation to the other things that can be set up. And in relation to this theorem, as the Minister says, that the ATP must ensure return, I would say that they must, and that return would be, among other things. also be that we have an Earth worth living on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152456	No one disagrees with that, and that is also why, fortunately, ATP as well as other pension companies, especially Danish pension companies, are increasingly and fortunately also moving their investments faster and faster into sustainable products and making sustainable investments. It is because you can also see that this is where there are high returns to be made in the future. And it is further supported by the fact that many of the companies that stand to profit from the many stimulus packages that are being rolled out all over the world in these years, whether it is the EU's joint recovery facility or, for that matter, Joe Biden's new, big investment plan, are also companies that offer solutions for green conversions, because that is the way we in very large parts of the world are linking the way out of the crisis. So I don't disagree with any of what Karsten Hønge says. I believe that our disagreement is primarily about whether it should be the board and board of directors of ATP that set out the guidelines or whether it should be something over which the government should be given direction. The last thing we don't think is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152611	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister, and that is how we proceed with the rapporteur's line. Would the Minister please prepare the platform? Thank you. Then the first rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party has been prepared, and that is Mr Beazley. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152643	Thank you for that, President. Now the Minister has explained quite well the background to how this proposal is connected, and then I think not only in relation to what the proposal itself is about, i.e. in relation to how we ensure green investment and human rights, but also what ATP has to do • that I will actually repeat what I said earlier about the previous proposal, namely that what has been important for us to deal with in addition to the green, is that, despite the fact that many Danes today have the opportunity to save themselves or are covered by an occupational pension, there are still a great many Danes who today only have their national pension and ATP to fall back on. And for those people, the check from ATP is a very important addition to the folk pension. This must be kept in mind, and this is also the overall purpose of the ATP. We in the Social Democratic Party are very concerned that the value that ATP has for pensioners today should also be there in the future. What is important here is that it is the board of directors of the ATP that sets the course and takes decisions on investment policy. And it is in fact also the position of the Social Democrats and our view that it is in very good hands there, because they are responsible for the interests of Members. Then it is also our expectation that the assets that promote the green transition and support the wider development of society, as the motion for a resolution also states, will be taken into account in the future, as well as being taken into account today. We therefore believe that there is no basis for supporting the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152844	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152848	Thank you. Now it is said that it is very good in the hands of the board and that we should not set up a framework around it; it is not that we should be making investments, but we can set up a framework, as this proposal is about. However, I would like to know whether the rapporteur is satisfied with the investments being made by the ATP today. Is the rapporteur satisfied with the investment they are today, or does the rapporteur think that the ATP should remove its money from fossil energy, for example, from companies selling weapons to illegal wars? Or: How is it to understand the joy of the board's work today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406152932	It should be understood that I am, in fact, satisfied with the way in which the Management Board manages the funds in the ATP and the direction in which things are going. Because if you look at how ATP was managed 5 years ago, and how ATP is managed today, what investments you made then and what you make today, there has been a turn, and that is what you need to keep in mind. I think it is moving in a good direction. After all, it is the Board of Directors that takes its decisions on the basis that it now has, in other words, whether it serves the interests of its members.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153005	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153006	But how long does it take to be out of investment in oil, gas and coal and out of companies selling weapons for illegal wars? Well, what's the patience in relation to that movement? If you do not want to set up a framework and say that, of course, the ATP, which must invest our money without us being able to choose it ourselves, must be in line with the policy pursued by Denmark. But how long is there? How long can you say it's going really well?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153036	I think that as long as we are in the right movement, we should not put time on. What is important here is that those who are members of the ATP are citizens of this society, and they also elect representatives to the ATP indirectly through their trade unions, or where it is they do so just as well as they elect representatives here to the Folketing. Now I'm looking down at my good colleague, sir. Karsten Hønge, and I am sure that if it was a general meeting of the old Cabinetmakers and carpenters' association, one would probably have had a discussion at the Congress about if the chairman sat on the board of the ATP what investment policy should be in the ATP.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153120	The next brief remark is from Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153124	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist asked the rapporteur, Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, if he is satisfied with the developments in ATP. I'd like to ask Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen: Is the rapporteur satisfied with developments in the world when it comes to climate, environment, nature and arms sales?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153147	Now it is the case that many things can be decided on here in the Folketing, but I would say that we cannot decide what the situation should be in other places than here in our own kingdom at least. I think that in some places it is moving well and elsewhere it is not so good. But we can have a really good talk about that another day. I do not think it concerns this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153207	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153208	That is exactly what the motion for a resolution does: Denmark takes responsibility for what Denmark can take responsibility for. If all sorts of countries say: Yes, but we can decide something with ourselves, but such a big discussion about the direction in which the world goes when it comes to climate, environment, nature and arms sales, we don't have to move the discussion from the top down to our everyday life, where things have to be moved in the right direction. Then it may be that sir... Lennart Damsbo-Andersen is pleased with ATP's board of directors, but if developments in the world are going in the wrong direction, we will have to make an effort and here set up a framework for what we can. Well, then it's no use when Mr. Knox... Lennart Damsbo-Andersen says that the value of pensioners today must also be there in the future, for what if it is a ruined land?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153249	I do not think that is the premise for this discussion here. I think that the important thing here is firstly to ensure that through the ATP we have a pension for pensioners in the future, both those who are pensioners now and those who come later. There I am sure that the references that come from here, the thoughts that come from here, will be perceived by the board of directors of the ATP. Some people are probably listening on the line and hearing what some things are being said here. After all, nobody is saying that there should be no green line in investment. We're just saying that it's not us who have to make that decision; it's the board that's making that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153327	Thank you, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153352	Thank you for the floor. The SF has tabled a motion for a resolution obliging the ATP to phase out its investments in coal, oil and gas production and to withdraw its investments from companies trading in arms and other military equipment to nations engaged in war in violation of international law. In other words, SF will end the fact that it is ATP's board of directors that sets out the investment strategy. I will start by stating that the fight against the climate crisis is very important for the Left. The green transition is one of the most important tasks of the world community. In the Left we want to help make a green transition to Denmark and the world. We are in a place now and here where the obligation to act is becoming clearer and clearer, but we are also in a place where more and more people want it, both citizens and businesses. We must ensure a greener future for ourselves, our children and our grandchildren. As far as the resolution itself is concerned, it sounds sympathetic, but it violates the autonomy of the ATP. It is absolutely crucial for me to emphasise that ATP is an independent, self-serving institution, managed by its own board of directors and a board of representatives composed of the social partners. ATP is first and foremost set in the world to ensure the best possible pensions for Members. Today approx. 40% by the pensionists no other basis than the ATP and the national pension. ATP is part of the economic well-being, and for the Left it is crucial that ATP has the framework to ensure a good return on Danish pension savings and that it is not moved. ATP, like the other pension sector, is subject to the principle that it is ATP's Board of Directors which, through the investment strategy, has the duty and responsibility to determine the direction of ATP's investments. In this respect, there is a clear distribution of roles and responsibilities between ATP's board of directors and legislators on the basis of the arm's length principle. In general, I believe that we, on the part of the state, must respect the independence of ATP when it comes to investing in citizens' pension savings. I do not think that it is we here in the Danish Parliament who are the best qualified to invest the Danish pension savings. In other words, we are opposed to the detailed management of ATP's investments. Moreover, I understand that today ATP is doing relatively much in green investment. For example: today they have invested more than 30 billion. kr. in green bonds providing cheap funding for solar and wind turbine developers, and for 2021 they have a target to target approx. 50 billion. kr. in sustainable bonds. The Left cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153638	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153643	Well, first of all, I must correct once again the misunderstanding that we should be running retail or investing the money from the ATP through this proposal. We set up a framework for how to invest. Of course, we do not oppose the policy pursued in Denmark when it comes to human rights and international law when it comes to green development. I would like to hear about something, because now the rapporteur is talking about this 30 billion. kr., as if it's a very large amount. Does the rapporteur know how much money it is that ATP invests in total for employees in Denmark, and how much it is when you stand and praise these 30 billion? kr. for green conversion?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153729	I would like to start by saying that if we start to establish a political framework for something, we will start to approach detailed management. And I just can't help it. For 40%. of the Danish population has no more than the national pension when they reach it. Then they get ATP, and that's it. So if we go in and adopt this motion for a resolution and then see that we have made some bad investments because there has been some framework here from the Folketing, then that is not the way we should go. If the rapporteur then starts to ask how exactly it is that is being invested, it is guaranteed somewhere here in the remarks. The rapporteur has guaranteed the figure, and the rapporteur will give it to me shortly and then come up with the percentage of that I guess. Am I right about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153813	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153815	No, not really. It wasn't a joke or anything. It was to hear whether the rapporteur is satisfied with the green investment being made, against the investment in oil, gas and coal being made. In other words, how can we, as an employee who pays for ATP, ensure that we do not help to invest in the climate crisis and to invest in illegal wars? How do we ensure that? Can we be satisfied with what is now, or should some other framework be set? Or should you just sit back and say that someone else is deciding, because there is a board of directors with an arm's length arm? And what we want with this is to ensure that your money is not invested in a development called climate crisis, a development called illegal wars, for example in Yemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153904	I think it's great that you want to go from 30 billion. kr. to 50 billion. kr. Just this year. That's a big difference, basically. Now, when the rapporteur is so interested in how the ATP manages its money, I simply cannot help saying that I think it is rather sad that ATP had invited the whole committee to a meeting here last year and that there were only members from S and V at that meeting. I find that a little sad when you want to go in and get so involved in the ATP's doing and the barn. Well, I guess you have to show up. That's the least you can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153949	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406153950	It's because I was just curious. Left, Danish Liberal Party. How does it sound about the Danes being forward-looking, I am not talking historically, where I acknowledge that ATP has played a role, but today, how far, by far, the majority of people who enter the labour market have an occupational pension, I hope you can recognise that it has the vast majority of people who have to be forced to pay into the ATP? I am not saying that those who want to do so should not do so, but why should everyone be forced to have their pension funds placed where politicians think they should be placed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154026	With all due respect and respect, I would like to say that this is not what this resolution is about. If this is something that is so dear to the hearts of the New Citizens, I think that New Citizens should table a corresponding motion for a resolution in which they ask precisely this question, because then they can get the facts and everything on the ground. I do not think that the rapporteur or I have that right now. Then we can start discussing it that way, because new ideas are always exciting, but that is not what this resolution is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154055	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154056	With all due respect, I understand that the Left does not want to answer why the Danes are being forced to pay for the ATP that the politicians have decided. But it has something to do with this, because this proposal is about how much is to be spent on certain investments, and it is precisely about whether to force the Danes into those investments. So this has exactly something to do with this. Now the rapporteur stands and praises the fact that it has risen from 30 to 50 billion, and then I just ask whether it is okay for the Left that the Danes are being forced to invest in these things that politicians have decided.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154132	ATP is a very good investment for a great many citizens next to their retirement pension. If there's a long time in the future at some point in time, maybe something can happen, I don't have to be smart about that right here, but right now it's a good supplement next to your folk pension when you have nothing else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154152	The next brief remark is from Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154155	I think that Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard is completely missing the mark by talking about this motion for a resolution as something that calls for the detailed regulation of ATP. This is just a suggestion that you take some pointer marks and make some frames around it. That is not to go in and say that exactly the company they have to invest in. It would be a detailed regulation: one company rather than another. That is not what the motion for a resolution proposes at all. I do not understand how the rapporteur is going to read it in this way. It is all about pointer marks and frames, and not about retail regulation at all. That's one. The second is that now we have ATP, which includes about 90 per cent. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154247	I do not quite understand why we do not agree here, because I understand SF as wanting to push ATP in a certain direction. And when you want to set a framework and direction, it starts to be some kind of retail management. I see nothing else, plus that you start to problematize that ATP has shares in Volvo because Volvo has 1⁄2%. in something, compared to the fact that they need some engines, and those engines can apparently be built into some military weapons. And apparently, according to SF, you can't invest in Volvo. This must be the way to understand this proposal. That's retail regulation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154330	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154331	It is not retail regulation to say that ATP, as a community pension fund on behalf of citizens, wants us to push towards a more sustainable world in terms of climate, nature, environment and, moreover, does not support illegal wars. It's a direction for a pension fund. And then it is very good that Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard says that the fight against the climate crisis is important for the Left and you want the green transition. I must take that for good goods, but apparently not when it comes to moving something in this situation. And that's the whole thing about having the best possible pensions for Members and the best return. But I just have to ask the rapporteur: is the best return not to have a sustainable world?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154413	I do not know how the rapporteur would feel if we suddenly set a framework in here from the Folketing, which makes the ATP our folk pensioners less. I wanted to feel really, really bad, and I do not think it is us in the Folketing who should decide how ATP should invest their funds. ATP knows very well what we want in here. That is also why they are putting up the whole green transition. This is among other things. Therefore: Because of the fact that we have the discussions in here. However, I cannot help asking the rapporteur whether the ATP can no longer invest in Volvo because of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154455	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406154519	Thank you for that, President. As far as this resolution is concerned, it is not really a new debate, because we have had it several times in the past. Now it is SF that wants investments in companies that get more than 5% to be stopped. of their turnover from coal, oil and gas, and this must be done by 2023. But it's just that year that's causing trouble. After all, we in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have had an overview of how investment is and where ATP has explained the investment to the Employment Committee, and that is long-term investment, which means that if we had to get out of it quickly, we could only do with the huge loss, and then ATP also told them that they were working to phase it out over time, and they are also in the process of restructuring their investments. Now we have just dealt with a legislative proposal that ATP can increase efforts in the area of climate change, and they do so on a large scale. They are in the process of redeploying many of their investments. Then SF also has a desire for the Folketing to establish a framework on how to invest. I am quite confident that it is the social partners who must establish a framework for how to invest in the ATP and that it is not the SF, nor myself, that has to lay down the framework for it. I am sure that the social partners and the board of directors are better at defining the framework and finding out how to invest than we in this Parliament are, and I would certainly pay off if I or Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist was supposed to be a part of the decision-making process. And it's not to belittle sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, but I also recognise that I myself would not like us to sit and decide it in this Parliament. So we in the Danish People's Party are confidently leaving this to the social partners, and in this respect it is also a question of the ATP securing investment so that they get the biggest return to their members, and they have done so for many years. I think it's about 220 billion. kr., they pay out to about 2.4 million citizens here in Denmark. You can't put me all the way up to the number, but that's about 220 billion. kr., they pay annually in ATP contributions to those who retire, and of course it also requires something that you can get investment to hang together so that you can continue to pay a good wage to pensioners, and in this respect it is also important for these 40% who have nothing but ATP. Or maybe I'll get another question from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, but of course it is something of social responsibility that is to those who have suffered. 40% Of those receiving a pension, only ATP has the extra, and of course it also requires something to ensure that they can also receive a reasonable ATP. Then, of course, you can always say that people have to do it themselves. You can also do an experiment and then choose to say that those parties who think that ATP should invest in a different way could be allowed to invest in one pool and all others in another pool, and then you could compare it. This cannot be done in practice, but it was such a way of finding out who was on the right track. It just cannot be done in practice, but it might be useful if you were told. Fortunately, we do not. I am quite sympathetic to the fact that we should not invest in companies that supply weapons to war nations, for example. Yemen and Syria and ISIS, and what the various warring parties are now called, and this is also where the ATP explores the terrain. They look very carefully at what they have invested in, what are some companies they are investing in, and then they are pulling out. But as I said, you can't just pull out of some long-term investments where it might be based on 30-40-year-old investments and then say that you stop here. Because then you can have a huge loss of income in the form of lower income in the ATP, and that is not what we are going to have. I am sure that the board of directors of the ATP or the social partners will act in the best possible way, and we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155020	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155026	Thank you. I am just getting a little curious because the rapporteur says, of course, that you should not invest in companies selling weapons used in illegal wars, for example in Yemen, but that you should not withdraw from companies either, because it can be dangerous because it can cost money. So how long does the rapporteur think it is acceptable for the ATP to invest our joint employees' money in, for example, companies selling weapons for the war in Yemen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155057	I guess I'm having a little trouble answering that. I don't think that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist can answer it without saying he doesn't care if ATP suffers a loss. I know that ATP is constantly exploring the terrain and looking at which companies they are investing in, where they are going to make new investments and which investments they are going to withdraw from. But those really long-term investments, as they are, are more in the field of oil, coal and gas, where you can't just drop out. In this context, we were given an explanation of how they looked at the situation when oil is phased out in Denmark, in relation to investments, and when they withdraw. So I'm sure they've made the effort they need to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155143	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155144	If you're quite comfortable with it, that's fine. However, what I understood from the rapporteur there are also some rapporteurs who have said this before about the fact that ATP is in the process of this development, and ATP listens to the debate that is there and listens to the fact that there is a social development. Does the rapporteur think that it is better that there is such a more or less subtle political pressure on the ATP for them to correct, rather than saying clearly that this is the framework within which we want to invest? Or how am I supposed to understand this interaction with ATP, which is of course on the part of the Danish Parliament and the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155220	Well, it should be understood in this way that I believe that ATP's board of directors is better at making those decisions than Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155229	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155230	Now I took the floor because the rapporteur is interfering with this, and it was just to perhaps correct. After all, no one is talking about ATP stopping now and people who have paid for it should not have their money. To be honest, it's a bullshit, you stand and say from the platform. What we are talking about here is how to set up ATP when we look perhaps 30 years in time, that is. how it should be designed for people who enter the labour market now and will need the ATP in 35 or 40 years' time. I have not heard anyone, even from New Citizens, say that the ATP must be shut down overnight and that everyone who has paid for it should not have their money paid out and that they should only live for a national pension. Well, don't say anything like that. That's bullshit. But it is, of course, in a situation where the vast majority of people today are covered by occupational pensions, quite fair to ask why citizens should be forced to pay this pension exactly. What does DF think of that? Why should we be forced to pay for this pension and not someone else you choose for yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155325	Well, let's take the occupational pension. Employees are also forced to pay for the occupational pension. Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen also well. It is not voluntary to pay for the occupational pension, it is an agreement made with the social partners in this regard, and it is in the same way with the ATP. Then there's something else. I fully agree with Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen in that when the occupational pension is fully phased in, we have a completely different situation for pensioners who have been on the labour market. But today we see that there is still 40 per cent. of those who receive ATP who have no other supplementary pension than ATP, and so we should not forget them in this game. Those who have paid into the occupational pension when it is fully phased in do not care what we say in this Parliament. They're gonna retire themselves whenever they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155421	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155422	Yeah, and that's why ATP has a massive cash tank that they could use to pay that money. Then the people who have nothing else now would be safe. It's not like ATP doesn't have any money at the moment. But what we're talking about is what role ATP should play, and there I can understand that the Danish People's Party believes it's fair that if you enter the labour market at the age of 23 or 25, it's the politicians in here who have to decide that you have to put your money in this pension scheme, in this pension fund that we politicians have decided you have to put your money in. Does the rapporteur not see that it is coercive when they say: you have to put your pension money in exactly this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155501	If you have to look at it soberly, it is a very, very small part that the individual pays to ATP himself. It's not a lot of dollars you actually pay a month to ATP. That is not the big amount, and if you look at what employers pay, they pay 80%. of what is being paid. This is something that has been agreed with the parties. Exactly how many crowns and ears are going into the ATP is not something we have set out. How many crowns and ears it should be, you negotiate to continuously, and so do you with the government. What this is all about is not something that we in the Danish Parliament should have an influence on, but with regard to the wealth in the ATP, I am quite convinced that when the occupational pension is fully phased in, we will see a different approach to the ATP. It may well be that there will be a change at that time, but not before the occupational pension is fully phased in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155600	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155614	Thank you, President. Thank you to the SF for this motion for a resolution. I had got used to it being the alternative that made this kind of proposal, but this time the sender SF was giving it in some way also itself when I saw the names. In the Radical Left we share the ambition of phasing out investment in the coal, oil and gas sectors. It is quite crucial that we all, and in all the different areas that can be done, relate to climate impacts, because it is of course useful not to continue to invest in the fossil energy sector, given that the ambition is to phase out the same sector itself. In other words, I do not necessarily see any contradiction here, because the future of ATP's investments already lies in precisely green investments. You don't have to take my word for it is something that ATP itself focuses on and also speaks loudly about and has set its goal for. In relation to the resolution itself, as I did last time we dealt with a similar resolution, I would like to point out that ATP is an independent, self-serving institution with its own board of directors, and I believe that we must respect that from the state side. After all, it is about the pension savings of the citizens, and I do not necessarily believe that it is we in the Folketing who are the best qualified to invest it. It is also important, as other rapporteurs have pointed out, to bear in mind that there are, after all, a number of people who have at their disposal the ATP alone in addition to the retirement pension. In the Radical Left, Summa summarum would very much like to urge the ATP and other pension companies to make green investments, but we cannot support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155835	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155839	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the serious consideration of the resolution. I get a little curious, because in other pension funds that you are a member of and to which you pay, you can, of course, use your democratic power to change the investment compositions. We see very much a huge campaign for this right now in relation to green pensions. But it's just something else about ATP, since ATP is different from the other pension funds we're used to, so it's just a substantial political pressure that has to be put on from in here, instead of being clear and clear and saying that this is the way we want to go? Is this something that the employee who pays to the ATP should sit back and hope so that he does not invest in oil, gas and coal for too many years into the future or in war material in illegal wars?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155935	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406155937	I do not think it is seen as a little hidden pressure from this when the rapporteur on the rapporteur and party on the party mentions that green investment is quite essential. However, I must also point out that ATP is precisely a special institution and therefore, of course, manages the funds in a different way. ATP is independent, self-serving and has its own board of directors, and it is like those who decide how to invest the funds and also do it better than we can achieve here in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160014	Here you go, Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160018	But the framework we are talking about is, of course, in relation to something you can normally do by being active in the pension company of which you are a member, and that is just something else here. After all, it is we who have decided to pay for it, and then it is only natural that we too should be looked at as helping to set up the framework around it. I would like to hear it at the end, because this was something we were discussing last parliamentary term, where it was said that this is a development that is under way and there is a conversion, including of investments: how much time do we have to make the conversion of ATP's investments if it is in the hands of Radicals? When should they have converted their investments into not an investment in the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160051	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160052	I can't put a date on that from here. However, I am aware of the fact that the ATP is not popping up, that the ATP is actually very clear about the fact that it is a focus they have and that they have also set themselves some targets for their investments in precisely the green one, and also in relation to the legislative proposal we discussed before this resolution, it is precisely to extend the framework for green investment, I would say, because there is no contradiction between investing green and investing so that the money grows.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160128	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160133	I would like to hear Radicale's position on this with what ATP should be in the long term. As it is now, and as it has actually been for some years, about 90 percent. of the population covered by occupational pensions. If you are now young and enter the labour market, why should you be forced to have your pension in two different places, i.e. both in the ATP and in the form of an occupational pension? That is terribly inappropriate, because then two places will have to be charged. After all, there are people who have to manage this, and they need money for it, which means that your pension will be less valuable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160204	In fact, I think it is a very interesting question, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen travels both to me and also to the former rapporteurs. And I think it is a debate that can easily be held at some point. I do not have an answer here on a stand-by basis, because that is not exactly what the resolution is about here, but I think it is interesting to debate how the pension system of the future, the ATP of the future, should be brought together, because that is not necessarily the right way we feel today. But again, of course, I also have to say that for a large part, ATP is quite crucial, because it is a crucial revenue base in addition to the national pension when you reach it at least at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160247	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160250	Absolutely, and I fully acknowledge that. I do not question the figures that are coming, which are around 40%. I am talking to people who are entering the labour market today, who may have 30, 40 or 45 years of age at least a long time before they can leave the labour market, and there are now two administrative fees they have to pay. When I think it is relevant in such a debate as this one, it is because we are talking here about the proportion of green investment to be colored, and that means that you then force your pension funds to a place that you do not want. It could also be that there was a political majority who wanted it to be something else, or it could be that the board of ATP would like to invest in a particular share, where you then say that it is not in line with your values, so there you do not want your pension funds to stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160330	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160331	As I have said, this is an interesting debate which I would very much like to take, but it also requires that we do so on a qualified or informed basis, and I have not yet thought about the system of the future. It may well be screwed up differently, I will not deny it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160352	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160356	I noticed that Mrs Samira Nawa referred several times in her rapporteur's speech to the fact that ATP is self-governing and self-serving. Evidently, this was the argument for the Folketing not to set up a framework for how to invest, because they are self-governing and self-serving, as Mrs Samira Nawa said several times. But is it now a principle of the Radical Left that if something is self-serving and self-governing, then there should be no framework for it? We have a number of other institutions in Denmark which are self-governing and self-serving, but where the Radicals do not hold back from saying: "You must comply and stay within this. It is even standard statutes and everything else that these different types of institutions have to live up to. So what is the difference since Mrs Samira Nawa needed to stress several times that they were just self-governing and self-serving? Yes, they are, as are many others, and yet we are setting them up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160445	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160447	It's not about not wanting to set a framework for them, because we do. This was also true of the draft law that we discussed before this resolution and which also deals with a framework for investment. But it will just be a step further when we also talk about exactly what kind of investment needs to be made. I believe that this is a step too far, in relation to what knowledge this House, including the Radical Left and myself, sits with, versus the knowledge that the board holds.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160520	Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160522	But I can assure the rapporteur of this House that the world is on the wrong track when it comes to climate, environment, nature and illegal wars; that is where we have that knowledge. So we have precisely that knowledge and that is why we want a self-serving and autonomous institution that includes 90 per cent. by the Danes, make its contribution to a sustainable world. So we are precisely in possession of that knowledge, not in detail of which company here and there is to be invested in, but which direction to take. So this assembly is exactly in possession of that knowledge, and it is not going as it should be going the wrong way in relation to a sustainable world. And this could be our little contribution to changing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160555	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160556	That was not exactly the knowledge I referred to, because we are sitting with it, and it is Mr. Karsten Hønge and I kind of agreed. But we also have a social responsibility here, and the knowledge that we may not be sitting with is, in relation to what kind of investment it is that benefits the most. For that is the aim of the ATP: to grow the money, so the most vulnerable citizens, who ultimately have only ATP in addition to the national pension, also have something to live for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160624	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then we're just gonna have to get the booze off. Thank you. And then we should welcome the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160641	This is very interesting, because it sounds as if we are broadly in agreement on the good intentions, so all the rapporteurs we have heard so far want a green transition, everyone wants something to happen and also that it has to be done at a certain rate. So the real issue here is whether it is legitimate for us to discuss how to administer ATP here in this Chamber. Now it is the case that I see ATP as a social size, and it is because of the legislative complex that has worked since the mid-1960s, and with the decisions that have subsequently increased to and with the legislative proposal that we dealt with an hour ago. After all, it is the country's biggest money tank that we are talking about, and, moreover, it is the money of the employees. I have witnessed such discussions in other pension funds, and this has actually led to changes in investment patterns. I think it should be noted, and I think it should also be noted, that many years ago there have been parallel discussions where, for example, it has been discussed. has been about arms production and where it has also resulted in changed investment patterns. So in this sense, there is nothing wrong with the fact that we have a discussion here in Parliament. In relation to the discussion about whether it is even legitimate for us to interfere in the positions of a board of directors, I would say that yes, that is all right, precisely because it is a social construction and it is a matter of course that we can set a social direction for it. So it's okay for us to discuss it. And then we should remember that there is already legislation governing how to invest, namely to ensure the highest possible return. So, of course, you can also have other forms of regulation, and that is what has been proposed here. Finally, I would like to ask the authors of the motion whether they imagine that the proposal they have put forward calls for a legislative amendment to the law we are discussing or whether it is envisaged that it can be established through recommendations or what the thinking is. And it is a little up to us to change the law, and in that case it will be practical for it to be done in the context of the law we are already considering. I think that's a little exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160907	Thank you. Wait a minute. There are no more brief comments, but Mrs Jette Gottlieb is going to have to drink from up here. Thank you. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Conservatives. Here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406160927	Thank you to the SF for the motion for a resolution, which is a partial re-submission of motion for a resolution B 24 from the 2019-20 parliamentary year. I will start by stating that the Conservative People's Party fully shares the good intentions to boost the green transition. We also recognise that the investments of pension funds can greatly affect the green transition. ATP must first of all ensure financial security in Denmark and that Danes have a pension to live for. That is why it is not entirely reasonable for us politically to go in and put such strict restrictions on what ATP must invest in. However, we believe that a debate like this today is good, because in this way we are also sending a signal to the board of directors of the ATP that we want more green investments. But we can also see that ATP actually takes responsibility in the green area. ATP is among other things: They have an ambition to make 50% of the market for green bonds. of their investments must be green in 10 years' time. In this respect, we must remember that green investment is not something that can be realised within one to two years, but which appears in the long run. We also welcome the fact that ATP has announced that they are actively seeking to invest in the climate and the green transition. They have shown this by not investing in coal extraction and by opting out oil companies that have large CO2 In addition, they have sold out all utilities that base more than half of their energy production on coal. In other words, ATP is well on the way to the political desire for more green investments. I also hope that they will read the political signal that more can be done in relation to green conversion. In other words, we recognise the good intentions of the proposal, but the Conservative People's Party is opposed to going into ATP's investments in such detail. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406161209	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406161211	Thank you very much to Conservatives' rapporteur. They say that the intentions are right and they support the fact that ATP is in the process of development. So the next natural question is: how much time do we have for this development? How long do we have to disinvest, take money from oil, gas and coal and put it into renewable energy, for example? How many years will you be satisfied with evolution? Is there carte blanche for infinity?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406161245	Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406161247	No, there's no carte blanche for infinity. However, I believe that they can read the political signals of a desire for greater investment in green conversion as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406161303	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Conservative rapporteur. I would like to ask the rapporteur just to spit off. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406161325	No, no, no. There should not be another area in which the Socialists, with their totalitarian view, should stick their fingers in and in which they would force their own alleged necessities upon the population. Now it must be the pension savings of pensioners that have to be put at risk. We cannot and cannot in any way support this in the New Citizens' Party. ATP has historically had an important purpose, but we doubt that it will have that in the future too. We believe that young people entering the labour market today, about 90% of whom are young people. either have an occupational pension or another form of pension, will be able to manage their pension without needing politicians in here to decide where to put their pension money. The problem is that when politicians in here force citizens to put their pension money in a certain place, there are also always some who want to start deciding how that money is to be spent. And to that there is just to say that politicians already have 1,200 billion of Danes tax dollars that is enough, and they should not now start to decide over the nearly 1,000 billion. kr., over which ATP decides. So no, no, no, we can't in any way support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406161446	This did not give rise to any questions, and then we should welcome the LA rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406161506	Thank you. We cannot support the motion for a resolution. In our view, climate policy in Denmark must be conducted through the general framework conditions for this society, as the general framework conditions create regulation, etc. It is the general framework conditions that set the standard for how citizens, businesses and pension institutions and funds should act, and if the general framework conditions are the right ones, and we strive to do so, then decisions on the part of the individual actors will also be the most optimal in relation to what is their objective, which is, of course, most often, in this case, to increase the return on members' pension savings within the general ethical framework that is now being set in the various places and within the framework that society sets for the investments that it makes. We would also like to express our opposition to the fact that we have such institutions in Danish society at all. We want all ATP's money to be paid out to ATP members and that we stop collecting compulsory pension payments for ATP in the future and allow people to spend the money in the way they think is best and which is in line with the pension requests they think are best.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406161628	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Finally, it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406161647	Thank you. And thank you all for the consideration of this proposal. Some people have commented on this, I do not know whether to say with a smile on your face and say that it has been discussed before or that a similar proposal has been discussed before. But when that is the case, it is because new cases come up over and over again about how our money is invested through the ATP. There are things that we do not think are in line with the policy being pursued in Denmark, that is, that we do not support illegal wars, that we do not support direct investment in the climate crisis, etc., and that is why we need to re-examine the matter. I had actually expected a slightly different reception this time too, especially in view of the fact that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament decided just before Christmas to stop for the production of oil, gas and coal in Denmark, i.e. put an expiry date on. But we are not willing to put that expiry date when it comes to investments through the ATP, and I think that is really a shame. I really think it is a pity when I hear that several rapporteurs are more in favour of us bringing political pressure through the dialogue we have here and the way we talk to the ATP, rather than being clear, clear in spit, and making the changes in the law that mean, of course, that workers' money is not invested in the climate crisis or in illegal wars. I think it is a very simple step and a very natural step to take when you now have the ATP, which is an important institution, as several have also mentioned. Then more people have talked about the fact that the most important thing is this big return thing. And yes but for me and for SF return is also more than just the money; it is also that we invest in the future that we want. And when you look at all projections and investments right now, it is not because it is oil, gas and coal that ensures the greatest and most amazing returns. So I kind of think it should be simple. Just before we took up this proposal, something else was discussed, namely the amendment of the law, and I hope that this will also be in the back of the rapporteurs who are dealing with the law in the future in committee, recognising that it will only be healthy and good that we are setting up a clear framework. For it is about a framework: it is not about a detailed management or a detailed regulation of investments, or that it is the Folketing that is starting to sit and manage investments. No, it is just that we say that the policy we are pursuing in Denmark also corresponds to the direction we are investing in through ATP. So thank you for the treatment. I hope, of course, that there will be a little more dynamism in the discussion on how ATP should invest their money and that, hopefully, more parties will also be involved in setting up a clear framework that will ensure that employees' money is not invested in a climate crisis and is not invested in, for example, companies that produce weapons used in illegal wars. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162004	Thank you to Rasmus Nordqvist for the rapporteur's speech. There are brief comments. First of all, I should like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162012	Thank you. Since SF believes that ATP should invest more green, would it be okay with the rapporteur if ATP would then invest in nuclear energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162022	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162024	As we stress in the motion for a resolution, which I am sure the questioner has read, we will make a policy consistent with the policy pursued in Denmark. And I do not see that we in Denmark have begun to pursue a nuclear policy and believe that it is necessarily particularly sustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162039	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162040	No, but if there was a majority in the Danish Parliament who thought nuclear power was a good way... like the United Nations thinks it's a natural way of achieving these climate goals that have been set so it might well be that the Folketing also woke up at some point and thought it was worth investing in nuclear power. If that were the case, would it be okay for the rapporteur to invest in nuclear energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162100	Now I doubt that the Folketing suddenly had to change its position so significantly. At any rate, I must do everything I can to fight against it, because no, I do not believe that nuclear power is the answer to the climate crisis. And if you look into the details of the United Nations Panel on Climate Change's report, it is also with considerable reservations and so on. But we can discuss that, I think, right after this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162120	Thank you. I'm gonna have to ask the two ladies downstairs to keep a little distance, please. Because we have to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen for Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162130	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech here. I note that today's debate actually shows that we may not necessarily have a particular disagreement as to where the objective is. Perhaps it is more what kind of funds we need and what direction we should go or how we should get there. Then I have thought of something else, and that is that what the resolution is based on is what has happened in the ATP and the annual report that was in 2019 or what has been before that time. I was actually sitting here today looking at the one that has come for 2020, and if you look at it, you can see that something has actually happened. I would just like to ask the rapporteur, and I only ask one question, whether the rapporteur does not recognise that there is indeed a movement in the way that the ATP invests in achieving the objectives set out in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162217	Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162221	Fully. And I have also had the discussions with ATP, because this is something I have been dealing with during the last parliamentary term, and there is the question, however, and I think it was the Minister who mentioned it • what I asked several times, last time we dealt with something like this: how long do we have? So there is the climate crisis as serious a threat as I see it, that we do not have time just to wait for good development. So we're gonna have to scratch, and we're gonna have to move faster. And especially with a cash box as massive as this one is, it should be used to fight the climate crisis and not invest in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162254	Thank you. I heard there was no other comment. So, thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the rapporteur for the authors, for the rapporteur's speech and for the answers. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162318	The debate is open. First of all, we must welcome the Minister, and that is the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162344	Thank you for that and thank you for the proposal, which I can, however, start by saying at the outset that the government cannot support. We have been opposed to nuclear power in Denmark for almost many decades now. We have been constantly opposed to nuclear power in Denmark, starting with a popular movement in this country many years ago. We have even argued in the world that others should also drop it where they have based their energy systems on it. Fortunately, this is also happening in more and more places, unfortunately on a rather tragic background. Of course, I am thinking in particular of the accident in Japan a few years ago. When nuclear power is not a very good solution to the climate problem, it is due to a number of reasons. The first and most positive, one might say, is that fortunately we have come so far with the development of renewable energy sources that we do not necessarily need nuclear power. I agree that many countries are still basing their solutions on it, but in fact, if you look at it, renewable energy is both practically implementable but also cost-effectively much better solutions in most parts of the world. Sea winds, just to give one example, sun is another, can compete at price in most parts of the world. In addition, of course, there are arguments about safety, among other things. understood in relation to the danger, if it goes wrong on a work. And I know you'll say, yes, but the risk is very small. The Americans have an expression of this: the risk is small, but the stakes are high, which means that it is possible that the risk is small, but the effort is very, very great, because if things go wrong, things can go quite, quite terribly wrong, and there are unfortunately more examples in the history of the world that this has happened. Add to this the increased risk of terrorist attacks on nuclear power stations, and there is a somewhat bleak perspective. Finally, of course, there is the problem of waste. We are talking here about radioactive waste, which will still be a problem for many, many generations in the future. That is why, basically, we do not believe that this is the way to go. In relation to the specific question of whether one should be able to research, for example. thorium-based technologies, it is my ministry's clear assessment that there is in fact nothing in Danish legislation to prevent such research from being carried out, so perhaps there is not much disagreement right there. But in relation to the larger, more general issues, we have to say that it is probably not just here that we find each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162648	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments and, first of all, Mr President. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162655	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. Now I am well aware that there is no ban on research into nuclear power in Denmark. What is the problem is that virtually no public crowns are given to research into nuclear power. But that is something else I would like to ask the Minister. The Minister says that renewable energy is widespread and cheap, but it cannot handle energy supply alone. Does the Minister not recognise the need for a base load when renewable energy does not produce? And if it is not to be based on nuclear power, for example, which is very widespread all over the world, what is it supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162739	That depends very much on what country we are talking about. In some countries it will be hydropower, in a country like Denmark we will in the short lane already in 2027 have 100 per cent. Green electricity, which is based on renewable energy plus biomass, which is also to be calculated as renewable energy in the UN inventory methods. That's the kind of thing we'd like to phase out. And in the long run, of course, it is clear that we need to develop different ways to ensure that we can store energy better than we can today. There are projections and research that show that, although it will be harder without nuclear power, it is possible to live up to the Paris agreement without nuclear power.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162828	Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162831	Well, what kind of energy is it supposed to be? Nor can it be based on hydropower alone. Even if we get 100 percent. Is it not only because we have the opportunity to import electricity from other countries where they are not based solely on renewable energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162848	No, the countries with which we are associated are, for the most part, also countries which are in the process of converting their energy systems away from nuclear power.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162857	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406162902	I think that the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply came around a little easily on the questions from Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. The Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply says that we must phase out biomass in Denmark and that we must then hope that we will have an opportunity to store energy from renewable forms of energy. And it is true that it is a good hope to have, and we should also make an effort to research it and we do so and we allocate a lot of funds to research it. However, we do not know at this stage, whether and when we reach the happy state, that we can store the energy from the solar cells to at night and from the wind turbines to the times when it does not blow, to the extent we need it. So when we're going to phase out the biomass, what's going to stand instead if not nuclear?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163007	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163008	So, if the choice is between biomass, sustainable biomass, which we use in Denmark, because we have made criteria, and nuclear power, then I choose the biomass. But we can also have a long discussion about what we need to do to get rid of biomass; it is just a little different from the one we are having today. Nuclear power will not be part of the government's discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163025	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163027	So it is the Government's ambition that if we do not achieve the happy state, that we in Denmark and worldwide can achieve enough storage opportunities for renewable energy, then it is the biomass that, in the long term, will create security of supply when it does not blow and the sun does not shine, instead of nuclear power. But is it not better for the climate of nuclear power?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163056	No. Now there were many prerequisites to the question that was asked, so I hardly know where to address it. I therefore start with the end: is nuclear power not better? No, it's not. In my speech, I have referred to the issues of security. The questioner can then be a little funny by saying: then we have to hope that new technologies will be developed. But that is not something we hope for; it is something we are working on. I was able to reply, on the other hand, polemically, that if nuclear power were to be chosen, it would have to be hoped that it would not go wrong; unfortunately, it has done so sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163132	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163136	I think the Minister was a little too kind to the proposer in his first speech. I would like to point out that we have had a debate earlier here in the Danish Parliament about stopping support for nuclear power, where a report was decided on, among other things. states that... the government is working to focus the research programmes on areas that are considered to create value for Denmark, including research that can contribute to added value for health care and other civilian purposes. At the same time, efforts should be made to integrate the Euratom research budget in the long term on an equal footing with other energy technologies in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation. In other words, we should not be kind to research into nuclear power, so we should follow the report which a unanimous committee imposed on the then government and which must, after all, still have some weight with a new government, including the attitude of the new government and the parliamentary basis on which the government governs to a certain extent. So I think the Minister was too kind in his first speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163246	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163248	I merely referred to the fact that we have a 1985 motion for a resolution which the authors of the motion for a resolution believe makes it impossible to research nuclear power, which I am correcting by saying that this is not the case. thorium-based nuclear power in Denmark. It does not change the attitude of the government, which is that we are against nuclear power.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163311	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163316	I am glad to hear that, because I have recently asked the Foreign Minister a question about these things, and he has answered me what the Government's position is, and it is that it is not intended to review the 1995 decision not to support nuclear power. I really think you should hold on to that, especially when you look into the fact that we actually have a reality in which, at the end of this decade, we are going to have 100 per cent. renewable energy, both in terms of our power generation and our district heating. Then we should not waste our energy on nuclear power.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163349	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163350	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163353	Thank you. There are no more comments, so I would like to thank the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Then we should welcome the SF rapporteur. No, I'm sorry, it's our rapporteur in the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, Mrs. Ida Auken. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163413	Now it gets more complicated, but it's also the first time I've been up here as the Social Democrat rapporteur. That fg. President Welcome). Thank you. The proposal we are discussing today is about whether we are going to build nuclear power in Denmark. It is not, of course, a question of whether there can be nuclear power anywhere in the world. It is about whether it should be included in the Danish energy planning, and that is what New Citizens would like. They want us to be able to build nuclear power stations in Denmark, and I have to say that in 1985 we, together, many of the parties of the Danish Parliament, have decided that we will not, and that is perhaps one of the reasons why we have been able to take the lead in the sun and wind. It's because we've had to find other ways. And it is also the case that we are now working to get an energy system that can actually operate 100 per cent. of renewable energy, also in relation to backup, also in relation to storage and also in relation to integration with the surrounding countries. So, immediately, I and the Social Democrats think that it is a rather succinct discussion to start discussing nuclear power on Danish soil at this time. Of course, things have happened since 1985; that is clear. New generations of nuclear power have arrived. There is what the Danish company Seaborg is working on, namely the fourth generation of thorium, which can potentially prove to be safer. But even that company says they don't plan to build it in Denmark. This is not a relevant discussion for Danish energy planning. This is perhaps more relevant in South-East Asia and elsewhere, where you must have a very high capacity very quickly. Then there is another issue here that is usually of concern to the New Citizens, and that is the economy. The works under construction at the moment have, after all, been heavily priced in relation to planning. I can take the Finnish work, which was decided in 2002, and which should have been completed in 2009, 7 years later. It will be finished in 2021, this year, so it has been no less than 12 years late. It has taken 19 years to build, and so it has gone from planning to cost 3 billion. EUR 11 billion for now. euro. Then there's France. It is about the same story with also a delayed work, in fact 13 years. It should have been in force in 2012. Maybe it will be in 2025. It has again gone from a cost of 3.3 billion. EUR 12 billion. euro. We really have neither the time nor the money to start going this way from the Danish side, so we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163658	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163703	Thanks for the speech. It is true that we believe in the proposal that we should repeal the 1985 resolution that nuclear energy should not be included in Danish energy planning. But it is not necessarily because we want works built here in Denmark. It is a question of whether we will open up to carry out research. Nuclear power stations are being built all over the world, so although the rapporteur believes that there is no economy in it, others have a different view of it. So the rapporteur does not think that in Denmark, if we do not build plants here, we could support research into nuclear power in support of the global nuclear industry and thus reduce CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163751	Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163752	It is actually the case that research is allowed in nuclear power Denmark. And in 2017 the Innovation Fund has provided a grant and it is actually a state grant for, among other things, I think it was Seaborg. So it is possible to research nuclear power in Denmark. So I don't really know what you want with this proposal. For if it is to be part of the energy planning in Denmark, it will mean that our supply and Energinet Denmark should be able to sit and say: Should we not build an A-power plant somewhere on Danish soil? And I don't know where New Citizens are gonna put that nuclear power plant. I still haven't heard where they think it should be. It may be that we can be informed of how good a place for a nuclear power station in Denmark would be according to New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163834	Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163837	Well, we do not think that we should build nuclear power stations in Denmark at least not at this stage. It is true that there is no ban on research into nuclear power in Denmark, but it is very, very difficult to get support for it. And that also applies to Seaborg. After all, they have had millions of investments, private investments, including those from South Korea, but have had a very, very difficult time getting public support. I think they have received virtually no public support in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163901	Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163903	Well, then, I think I am a little confused at a higher level over the resolution, because this is not really about researching nuclear power. It is, after all, about taking it into energy planning. But it is good to clarify that New Citizens do not think that we should build nuclear power stations in Denmark either. Then it is a question of what it is in the field of research that we do not think is possible at the moment. I have just pointed out that money from the Innovation Fund has been given in 2017 and that research is possible. It is in fact researchers who have come out of Danish universities who have made this technology that the primary Danish company I know is working with in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163939	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. We are going to have to get rid of it, and then we are going to welcome the rapporteur of the Left. It's sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406163958	Thank you for the floor. For many years nuclear power has been almost an insult. When you look at the challenges that have been historic, it is also natural, because there are risks and challenges to the use of nuclear power. Nuclear power, however, also has clear obvious advantages when it comes to limiting CO2 The historic challenges of nuclear power do not mean that nuclear power cannot develop. Research and development in these years is marked in finding solutions with nuclear power that have far fewer challenges with waste and by-products. However, it is important to separate the debate on nuclear power as a possible solution at national and nuclear level as a global solution. In Denmark we are incredibly lucky. We have a geographical location that allows us to produce large amounts of wind energy at low prices. This means that we have unique knowledge of possibilities in terms of wind energy. At the same time, we are also geographically a small and densely built country, making it more difficult to deal with nuclear power. That is why we in the Left do not believe that it is obvious to use nuclear energy in Danish energy planning, and that is why we do not see any need at this stage to override the 1985 decision and make nuclear power part of Danish energy production. Globally, however, this is another matter. That is why we in the Left are excited that Danish companies such as the United States and the United States. Seaborg Technologies, which has also been mentioned here before, is developing and researching nuclear reactors that are safer than the previous ones. They can be exported and, as has already been said, supply large parts of South-East Asia, for example, with energy at a much cheaper price than coal and, perhaps most importantly, in a much more climate-friendly way than the way energy is produced, for example. Southeast Asia today. For there are many countries that do not have the same opportunities with wind energy as we fortunately have in Denmark. There is therefore a need to develop a safer and clean form of nuclear power. We therefore understand the intentions behind this proposal and are pleased that the debate is being held here today. We in the Left are in favour of research, including nuclear energy, and we would very much like to contribute to providing more information and better opportunities to obtain support for nuclear research. We therefore support the part of the proposal on improving the possibilities for nuclear research. However, since the main purpose of the resolution is to change Danish energy planning and thereby override the 1985 parliamentary decision that nuclear power should not be included in public energy planning, we cannot, unfortunately, support the proposal today. However, we would very much like to continue the dialogue with New Citizens on how to improve the possibilities for nuclear research and how to draw attention to the opportunities that are actually available for research into nuclear power in Denmark today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164253	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. We also have a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen in this round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164258	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I am very pleased to hear that the Left supports nuclear research and also sees it as a global solution. And the main intention of this proposal is not to build a nuclear power plant in Denmark; it is precisely to provide better opportunities for public support for research into it and also to build a research environment. And that is not possible as long as nuclear power is written out of our energy planning. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is a problem, for example, when we talk about Seaborg, that they must employ experts from abroad because people are simply not being trained for it in Denmark? Does the rapporteur not agree that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164344	Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164346	So, we agree that there is a challenge with it and that it is difficult to find funding for research in the area in Denmark today, but we do not agree that it necessarily requires that we say that it must be part of the Danish energy planning in order to be allowed or to be able to do more research in this. However, we would very much like to have a dialogue with the rapporteur on what these barriers are and what opportunities there are to draw attention to the public institutions too, which seem to see it as a barrier, that it is not part of the Danish energy planning that one can finance research. After all, we are Niels Bohr's native country, so of course we also need to have the opportunity to do research in this area if there are the right projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164423	Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164425	Well, thank you. I think we should talk about this and see if we have any other proposals on how to proceed with this issue, because we think it is essential. A company like Seaborg can also be a huge export success for Denmark and make a lot of money home if they succeed, because it is difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164445	I totally agree. And we look forward to the dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164450	Thank you. And then there was a request for a brief comment from Mrs Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164452	Thank you to the rapporteur. I therefore find it interesting to have further discussions on how the Left will find money to research more in nuclear power, and where should that money be given priority in the research budget? And in addition: was it a priority for the Left that it, for example, should be. Should it be from the research reserve agreed for one year that money should be spent on nuclear research?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164510	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164512	For example, the previous government did. It is also a piece of work, as I understand it, to provide better opportunities for research into thorium and such things, thorium reactors. But no, we see it as such that this type of research must be given equal priority to others, so to the extent that it is the right projects with the right quality, they must be given equal priority to research in all sorts of other areas. It is not the case that we are necessarily saying that we should have a very special nuclear effort, but we do not think that with the climate challenges that the world is facing and nuclear power is, then we think it is crazy not also to be able to prioritise the right projects in this area, if they are there, then it is not the same as that they are necessarily there, but there is something that suggests that it is very, very difficult to get research today. In any case, we have researched a little and seen that it is very difficult to get funding for the projects that have been, although they seem promising.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164615	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164617	That was a very long answer without an answer to the question. Where should the money be given priority? Is it in the field of research? Was this a priority for the latest research reserve negotiations? And when the rapporteur says that priority is given to this on an equal footing, what is it on an equal footing with? Because the Green Research Strategy and the Research Reserve have precisely identified some specific areas in which research will be carried out. But let's just leave it alone. The last question is: how much money should be devoted to nuclear research, according to the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164645	A specific amount should not be set aside, at least that is not what we have proposed. However, this suggests that projects in this area are to a much lesser extent supported by the Innovation Fund and others, and this also suggests that they have a real, real difficulty in enjoying the advancement of our universities. And if that is the case, among other things. because of the barrier that New Citizens are pointing to, we think it is a wrong barrier, because nuclear power is going to fill the rest of the world, and if we can help make it cheaper and safer and better, and so that we can help with climate change, we must have the opportunity to prioritise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164719	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. Then we have to get drunk, and while it is being done, I can welcome Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406164742	Thank you, President. Thank you very much. Peter Seier Christensen to clarify what the proposal here is not about. For it was also my impression that New Citizens, and that it is also one of the major reasons why New Citizens are outside the broad part of Danish energy policy, wanted to produce nuclear power in Denmark. I understand that is not the case, and then we are at least closer to each other than otherwise. Then I understand that the proposal here is to a large extent about Seaborg having better opportunities to raise capital for development and research, etc., and we are in many ways in favour of that. So that companies in Denmark develop technologies that the rest of the world wants, we should not hinder, even if it is an energy production that we do not immediately plan to implement in Denmark. One of the things I find incredibly exciting about Seaborg's technology is their mobile facilities, such as: can be used in the Navy. Well, some of the challenges we face in climate contexts is, of course, what we are doing about Mærskships and other great thinkers, who are today a absolutely crucial necessity for having global trade in goods work. Just see the challenges if there is a single small ship that sails wrong in the Suez Canal: then the whole world stands still. The question is, what do we do with these thoughts' dependence on heavy fuel today, and it is clear that some of the technology provided by Seaborg will be able to solve some of the problems. Equally, in non-developed countries where the basic energy infrastructure is not available, decentralized mobile installations that can be moved around will be good, depending on where production is needed. So we're pretty much in on that. Now the Minister has already said in his speech that there are no formal obstacles to the knowledge of funds, either privately or publicly, these technologies. I note, then, that the proposal has written that it is as if there are real invisible barriers and that this is what we want to do up to, and I hope that will be the case. It is difficult sometimes to fight against invisible barriers, so I do not know what exactly the legal consequence will be of voting through this. That is why it could be exciting to try to vote 'yes', to see what the Minister would do, because how do we remove invisible barriers? On the other hand, we are talking about glass ceilings in other contexts, and what do I know, which are such cultural barriers, and I do not know what. We in the Danish People's Party feel that we are happy that we and New Citizens are then agreed that we should not have the production of nuclear power here. There's plenty of nuclear power in Danish power outlets. We just let Swedes, Finns, Germans, Britons and other good people produce it. Then they can also buy our power from time to time, which is why prices are kept down. And, of course, we must be involved in research, including in the technologies we cannot see in our own energy planning. So it is not quite clear to us exactly what the consequences of voting in favour of this proposal might be. If we learn more about it during the committee procedure, then I will not be wearing the no-hat here, but I cannot give a full message that it will be the green button that lights up. We will find out in the course of the committee procedure. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165134	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165138	Thank you for your speech, which was welcome at least part of the way. I understand that DF also believes it is important that we do not exclude nuclear research in Denmark, and when we talk about the invisible barriers, it can be seen just how much is being given to nuclear research in Denmark, and that is very, very limited, and in our opinion this is because of the resolution adopted in 1985. So if we can find another way to do it, we'll be willing to. So I suggest that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt then joins the club, who has to talk to see if we can find another way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165223	The question is whether the rapporteur has not already got his way by the Minister's introductory speech, in which he said clearly that I heard it in any case that there are no restrictions. But if there's anything more that's acquired, Seaborg and any other demand, then I think we should look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165244	Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165246	It's fine. As I also say, there is no ban on it, but we can just see that the funding that is being given is very, very small, and we can see that our research environment in this area is very, very small, and we would like to have something done about that. But I understand that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt can also see reason in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165306	In other words, if we were to play with the idea that this motion for a resolution was adopted, what would it have really done? Should the Minister then call those who administer the funds and say that we have now decided that so much money should be spent? Or what exactly do you want? How do you break down barriers that are not legal with law? That's what I'm a little unsure about. But now, as I said, we have just had Easter, there is resurrection, and there must be a good mood and such things, so we will not rule out anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165340	In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the DF and welcome the SF rapporteur, Mrs Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165349	Thank you. The proposal from the New Citizens' Party makes it quite clear that nuclear power must be able to form part of public energy planning. But it is fair enough to find out here that New Citizens do not think that a nuclear power plant should be set up in Denmark. Perhaps it would be nice to have clarified it a little more in the resolution. But so far, so good. In addition, other very good rapporteurs from both the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party have made it clear here that there is no ban on research into nuclear power. So you might ask: at the end of the day is it a priority for public research crowns to do so? Yes, it certainly is. I believe that new citizens are normally of the principle that money should not be wasted and thrown around them, and I am particularly so when it comes to prioritising funds for nuclear research. We're vertically opposed to that in the SF. That is also why, for example. the research reserve agreed for 2021 • an agreement which, by the way, New Citizens are also included in the budget does not give priority to a crown for that area. I think that basically makes sense. On the other hand, money is given priority to green power storage technologies such as power-to-x and energy efficiency, etc. So we are basically saying no to nuclear power in Denmark, and I think that if the rapporteur wants to talk to some local citizens who at least do not want the nuclear waste at Roskilde to their region, then the rapporteur is welcome to come to Skive. We are not particularly interested in getting radioactive waste like this up there. But it is good that we have reached such a point that you do not want a nuclear power plant in Denmark. But at the end of the day I have a very good principle that, in addition to agreeing with what I have understood the resolution and which I can hear everyone else has understood, I am therefore fundamentally opposed. But then I also object to saying yes to something that is apparently a little difficult to find out what is. So it's gonna be a rejection from the SF. Now the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned it, but it is quite interesting that the Director of Seaborg Technologies, who has actually been referred to a little in this debate, has literally said that nuclear power in Denmark is not relevant at all to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165638	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165644	We all agree that we need some power, even when the sun doesn't shine and the wind doesn't blow. Until we may at some point have so much research done that we can store renewable energy, we use biomass in Denmark. Does Mrs Signe Munk not really agree that it would be better for the climate to • if, for example, we were to have a climate that would be better for the climate? had bought some nuclear power from Sweden? They're shutting down some of their reactors. If we took them over and got nuclear power from Sweden, it would be better for the climate than our biomass.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165725	It's a really exciting discussion to get into, and I think that you'll probably have to be there by the geek school in relation to energy planning, so that you can really get into depth with this. One might say that in the energy supply one has some basic load, some intermediate load and some peak load. And in Denmark, we are on our way to making continuous power a basic load both in our electricity supply and in our heat supply via heat pumps through our many connections to the electricity grid, which we are also expanding. Then it can be said that the challenge becomes acute, i.e. something that you can turn up and down and turn on and off. There is, of course, such a distortion in the debate that a nuclear power station would work. It doesn't. It can only function as a basic load. And what we use the biomass for, which is the perspective SF has, is that the wood biomass should be used in the peak load, because everything else will just be able to turn on and off a biomass boiler when Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and the climate minister and everyone else in here go home and cook where there is real pressure on electricity consumption and heat consumption. So it's just to get it rid of. In addition, the ambition for SF is actually that it is essential that the wood biomass we use should be reduced and must be domestic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165832	Thank you. Is there another comment? There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165835	I do not see what would be in the way of us using nuclear power during peak periods. I would still like an answer to that from Mrs Signe Munk. Now the Minister for Climate Affairs has replied bypass in two answers, and now Mrs Signe Munk can also try to answer bypass in two answers. But I am still trying: is it not true that nuclear power is better for the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165902	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen knows that we already act energy in Nord Pool and across the Danish borders, i.e. also with Norway and also with Sweden and also with Germany etc. The energy mix they have there, we are not masters of it as such. And it is true, as the rapporteur also mentioned earlier, that there is also an element of nuclear power in the power outlet today. The wood biomass is CO2 It is encapsulated and is released to the atmosphere. And in this context, in order to make it even better in relation to the way we use biomass, it has to be sustainable, first of all, but secondly, we also need to develop CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165942	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen, who has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406165946	Thanks for the speech. Does the rapporteur not agree that if we in Denmark are to base ourselves on one hundred per cent renewable energy, then we are dependent on backup supplies from abroad, and also backup supplies, which cannot consist of one hundred per cent renewable energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170010	After all, the discussion is now moving into what the Danish energy supply is, precisely that Denmark both exports and imports energy. So it is quite right that the rapporteur says that the Danish stable energy supply and security of supply will depend on us continuing to trade power with the rest of Europe. So can it be said that the status quo for the rest of Europe must be as it is now? No, that is certainly not the vision that lies in the European Commission or in our neighbouring countries. That is precisely where we are moving towards more renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170045	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170047	The rapporteur believes that an energy supply of one hundred per cent of renewable energy can be based, so there is no need for backup, which is not renewable energy. This must be a prerequisite, because everything we do in Denmark we do because we have to be a pioneering country. So it has to be able to spread to the whole world and be scalable. So does the rapporteur think that this is an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170107	I think that the rapporteur is also familiar with power-to-x and electrolysis technology, where hydrogen can be made that is storageable on the basis of green power. When we talk about renewable energy, we can say that it is probably first and foremost understood as sun and wind, you can also be from gas, for example. from the rapporteur's food waste and biogas and gas engines can be used to cope with peak load supply. You can also wear a wood biomass boiler on, for example. domestic Danish wood biomass. After all, it is a residual product from the Danish wood production, which also makes you e.g.. can finance raising deciduous trees here in Denmark. So in this way, the whole energy supply can be based on renewable energy in a broad sense, and that must surely be the objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170150	There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170156	Thank you. I was slightly confused by the rapporteur's speech. Is it true that the rapporteur, if it were up to the rapporteur, would prohibit Danish universities from researching nuclear energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170208	Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170209	Yes, it is true that SF does not believe that money should be spent on nuclear research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170215	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170216	Thank you for that clear answer. That may be part of the explanation of why it is difficult to find funding when such things are said from the Parliament's platform. And I just have to say that I think this is a rather worrying attitude, because there is a whole world around us where nuclear power is going to fill a great deal and it is going to have a central role in the green transition around the world. And then we do not have a level of competence and an understanding of it in Denmark. But thank you for that clear answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170242	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170243	I don't really think that's that weird. So, in this proposal it is said that there are some invisible barriers, as far as I can understand. Well, then, in my own person, I must be an invisible barrier. The second is that I think it is meaningful that when we do not have nuclear power in the Danish energy planning and should not have it, we prioritise our research money on what Denmark is strong on and on what the world needs, namely wind and sun. I think that is an honest and fair priority. But it might be interesting to hear from the Left how much money will then be given priority to nuclear research. Because that's a priority. The money isn't endless.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170318	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we need to get the booze off before we welcome the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Great, it worked out. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170343	Thank you. We are radically opposed to changing Danish energy planning. We do not think that a-force should be part of our overall energy planning, and for this reason alone we intend to vote against this proposal. The second part of the proposal, which lies here, is that we should support some research into nuclear power or rather break down a barrier to research into nuclear power. I can say that we have an urgent need in the green transition for energy research. It is in our CO2 plan and our plans to achieve the goal we have set ourselves under the Paris agreement, technology gaps that require research. That is why we need to do research into storage and we need to do research on ptx and we need to do research on the conversion of transport. There is plenty to use public research funds to support the vision we have of achieving our commitment to the Paris Agreement. That means that we do not support that part either, because we need all public research and more so that we can pour into the strategic research projects we have to succeed in achieving our green transition. So no, we do not want to include nuclear energy in energy planning, and no, we do not want to give specific priority to scarce research funds for anything other than where we have technology gaps to target money for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170456	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. The rapporteur has just to get rid of it before the rapporteur goes. Then we should welcome Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170517	It is therefore a proposal for a parliamentary decision that public energy planning should be organised on the basis that nuclear power can be used in the end. And if I am to take this seriously, I have to start from what it says and not what it talks about, and we have therefore taken a decision in Denmark in 1985 that nuclear power is not part of energy planning in Denmark. It was actually quite crazy then, because there you didn't know how to secure another energy supply. We have resolved this over time, and I would like to thank the OOA, the Agency for Information on Nuclear Power, which for 11 years conducted a good campaign, a popular campaign which led the Folketing to say a clear 'no' to the fact that nuclear power was part of our energy planning. Now we are faced with the fact that by 2030 all our electricity is from renewable energy. If you count biomass as renewable energy, we also come to the conclusion that in approx. 2030 has 100 per cent. renewable energy. I mean, why is it that you have to throw yourself into planning for something superfluous? I think it's hard to take seriously. And then it has to be said that it would be totally economically irresponsible if we went in that direction. If you look at the energy prices at nuclear power, because what they are building in England, compared with the offshore wind farms in England, it is more than twice as expensive electricity that comes out of it. If you look at the poor planning of nuclear power expansion in several European countries, the budget has galloped off and you have ended up in something where the public subsidy for this type of energy will be something that will be granted perhaps for 30 years. It is just so expensive that it is totally economically irresponsible to go down that road. Then we'll talk about some research. What are we good at in Denmark? It is a high level of security of supply. It is to have an energy system where district heating and our electricity system merge, and it will play much more together in the future. That's where we were going to bet. Our position of strength is, of course, that we have always developed larger and better wind turbines, and that is where the research should lie. And then I just want to say that there's no time on my little screen here, but I can talk a very long time about this. That fg. That's weird. The rapporteur has two minutes to go). Do I have two minutes yet? That's good. After all, I think that the research we should be doing should be targeted at what we are already doing best and not think of something that the world out there might need. I simply believe that we have very good opportunities to have an export adventure on our district heating solutions. It can get better. We need to make sure that the geothermal area fills up much more in our district heating supply. We need to come up with an optimization of what kind of storage systems we have. That's where the research can be used. I have discussed nuclear power several times, and that is one of them. Based on the fact that we're sending 200 million. kr. down to the European Union, which supports some nuclear research and which is earmarked funds for it. It should be completely phased out. We have obligations in Europe. There are, among other things: some EU countries that have been admitted and where it has been promised that we will help to dismantle their nuclear power. Several countries in the European Union have decided that they should phase out nuclear power and move on to some renewable energy, and we can help them with that, among other things. with wind turbine technology developed in Denmark. We have a fantastic position of strength in the area of renewable energy. That is where we need to develop. So I will choose to take the resolution so seriously that I will deal with what is on the first page, namely that it is a question of New Citizens wanting nuclear power to be used in our energy planning, and there is the clear position of the Enhedslisten that it should not. I also think it is a little strange to have to discuss such a thing when we have recently agreed that two energy islands should be set up with a total of 5 GW. And I know that New Citizens are not part of that agreement, but it might well be that it had become a little known that we are faced with the fact that in Denmark, both in West Denmark and in East Denmark, we are going to produce much more electricity than we can use ourselves, and we are going to export renewable energy to other European countries. We are going to say 'no' to this resolution and bet on renewable energy instead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406170958	Thank you. Just as a little service information, I'd say the clock doesn't work. You're the first rapporteur to do that. But forward-looking, I would say that we have failed to report it now. When there is one minute left, I will say it, and I will rise when the time is up, as usual. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen, and it's from Mr. Egge Rasmussen. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171021	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. As I have mentioned before, the solutions we make in Denmark must be scalable. And according to the IPCC, it will be very difficult to achieve the Paris objective without expanding nuclear power worldwide. So what is Enhedslisten's position on this, that is to say nuclear power worldwide? Does the Enhedslisten believe that nuclear power elsewhere is a necessity?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171049	But we do not think that the safety of nuclear power has been resolved at all. We have also noted that the newer nuclear power stations under construction result in very expensive electricity generation. So in our vision, nuclear power is not part of the solution, even with the accidents that have been seen in the world. I think that should also be included in the broad spectrum, namely that there is a safety issue. It is also too slow to build new nuclear power stations. So it is much faster to make some decisions about building wind power and solar cells, and then we have to be really good at saving energy. Energy saving should not be forgotten in some debate about whether it is renewable energy or nuclear power. And there's still no watch on it. It's a little unstable. Again, when I get up, time is up. Now there are 8 seconds to go). I think it's nuclear power that delivers this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171140	We have one more brief comment to make. Here you go, sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171156	Does the rapporteur recognise that there is a need for a backup supply which is not based on renewable energy, that is, that it cannot be distributed worldwide by a hundred per cent of renewable energy without having a backup supply that does not consist of renewable energy? And if the rapporteur agrees, what will deliver it? Well, it can be nuclear power, it can be coal power and other forms of fossil energy. What is the rapporteur's view of providing that backup energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171233	If you look at Denmark, a small amount of biomass is something that we really need in peak load. It could also be biogas that you use in a peak load. It could also be a geothermal solution which raised the temperature to a certain level. It's probably not more than 100 degrees. So I can easily see that there are other solutions. And then I think we have plenty to offer in Denmark to help develop solutions other than nuclear power.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171303	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no more brief comments. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. Now the clock works up here again, but the clock that's down to the right counts the other way. I want you to keep that in mind if you keep that in mind. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171330	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. We have to go all the way back to the time of the 1970s when we went on the empty roads on Sundays and they decided never to be vulnerable again. The oil crisis gave political food for thought, and it began to investigate possible alternatives to oil from the Middle East. Nuclear power was certainly an option here. But not unimportantly had accidents and safety flaws we've heard of some of them here from the platform, but in 1979 the accident on Tremile Island, in 1986 the Chernobyl accident, and later came the Japanese accident in 2011, which was then after this combined with fear, what should go away? Barsebäck!·, a majority to give up nuclear power, and nuclear power was taken completely out of Danish energy planning in 1985. Since then, it has actually been a little difficult to bring nuclear power into play, and there has been no political support, and it is really a pity and perhaps also a bit of double standards. This is a pity because we are thus excluding a potential source of energy at a time when we are seriously working to drop black energy, and that is double standards, because we do not have any problems in purchasing energy produced at foreign nuclear power stations. But I am also not sure that we are yet ready to think nuclear power into our energy planning. Not only are there many emotions at stake, but we do not have the knowledge and dialogue that is needed either. It does exist, but not really under Danish auspices. Conservatives therefore believe that the first place to start is to remove any barriers to research and to get some knowledge on the table. Much has happened since 1985, and the UN Climate Panel also points to nuclear energy as one of the sources to help create independence from oil and coal and prevent major climate change. And, yes, here I went on to talk about nuclear rather than nuclear power, and that is because, of course, we have to make it clear that it is only thorium technology that can be at issue for us immediately, not other nuclear technologies, simply because thorium naturally produces less residual waste and cannot be used for nuclear weapons. Conservatives therefore believe that we would certainly like to work more technology-neutrally and not just look at sun and wind as renewable energy sources. But first let us have some debate, first of all let us have some knowledge before we begin to calculate nuclear power into our future energy plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171542	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. There are no brief comments. Then it's LA's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171559	Thank you. We are voting in favour of the resolution because we think it is a good thing that it opens the way for the use of nuclear power not to say that it can mean that you can take account of all the reservations you have and weigh them up, and then you can choose not to use it if you, for example, want to use it. Think it's too expensive. Many people have said that nuclear power is far too expensive. Well, then we shouldn't use it. It's completely correct if it's too expensive. But if it is the cheapest and the best solution to ensure that the remaining part of our power production in Denmark, which cannot be supplied by wind and sun, can also be CO2, no one can say that it must necessarily be a production that must take place in Denmark. Denmark delivers green power and will deliver green power to an even greater extent to the world via our wind turbines. When we cannot use the green power, other countries buy from us, and then they meet their goals through the production of green power in Denmark. Our energy island is only economically linked because we know that there is a demand from other countries for the green stream that will cross the energy island. Similarly, when we need green electricity, instead of firing biomass in Denmark, we can also buy the green electricity from countries that have nuclear power as a power source and thus meet our obligations. The password here is "can," not "must," and that is why we are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. We think it is headless that we have written off the possibility of including nuclear power in energy production in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171757	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is for Mr. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171801	Thanks for the speech. I am not surprisingly in complete agreement with the rapporteur in the observations made by the rapporteur that it is foolish that we certainly do not have that option. Of course, we must assess it on all parameters in terms of price and safety, and whether it now fits into our electricity supply system. So thank you for your support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171823-2	Thank you for the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171829	There was no other brief comment, and then there is one for Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171832	I would like to know whether the position of the Liberal Alliance is still that there may be a nuclear power plant in the backyard of Anders Samuelsen, as he has already said. At that time he lived in Horsens, and there I was very concerned, as elected in East Jutland, about the fact that he was working for us to have a nuclear power plant in East Jutland, and it could also be that the rapporteur could reply to whether Anders Samuelsen has moved since. Because then it might be that it is somewhere else in the country that the nuclear power plant should lie. But is it still out of the question that a nuclear power station can be located in Anders Samuelsen's backyard, which has previously spoken from the Parliament's platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171909	Yes, I think he has said it in connection with the possibilities of thorium nuclear power, which is recognized as a potentially much safer way of doing so even more safely than ordinary nuclear power, and I think he will continue to do so, even if he is now moving to Samsø. So this gives exciting prospects for energy production on Samsø, I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171935	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171937	It's getting worse and worse. Well, it was all the way back in 2011, and I actually think it was a quite ordinary nuclear power plant he wanted to have in his backyard back then. That's what he offered. So I really think it would be nice to make it quite clear whether he still has some influence on the energy policy of the Liberal Alliance, so it is in his backyard that you plan it, whether you live in Horsens or on Samsø.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406171958	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172000	No, Anders Samuelsen has no influence on the energy policy of the Liberal Alliance today, because it is determined by the parliamentary group of the Liberal Alliance, where Anders Samuelsen is no longer involved. But he leaves a legacy in the Liberal Alliance and among other things. the fact that we have a greater openness to the CO2 there we have always been so a little more open to things being better, we do not necessarily have to take decisions from the 1980s etc. and that everything is not cast in concrete, but that there is a development in society, a dynamic that the Enhedslisten's programme of principles does not provide.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172041	Thank you to LA's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. But we're just gonna have to get the booze off. So I'm gonna ask, will the alternative be on? No. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Peter Seier Christensen, from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172112	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. 46 environmental movements and Norway's green party now support nuclear power, and Finnish electricity is soon completely fossil-free, among other things. Thanks to new nuclear power. The White House in the United States states that nuclear power must form a larger part of the United States' energy supply. China, France and a number of other EU countries are setting up and developing nuclear facilities. The European Commission's Special Scientific Council and Joint Research Centre, the Joint Research Centre, have established that nuclear power is a sustainable energy supply. Our analyses do not find any scientific evidence at all that nuclear energy harms health or the environment more than any of the other electricity generation technologies already included in the taxonomy of energy sources that counteract climate change. The JRC also notes that alleged waste problems today have become even less risky as final storage solutions have now also been developed. The conclusion is clear from the EU, the UN and a number of research environments around the world: minimal pollutants are emitted from nuclear power stations, safety and security of supply have dramatically increased over the last few decades. The efficiency and reliability of nuclear power stations increased to record levels. Now, of course, a global effort is being made to reduce CO2 which is why an even more sustainable, long-term and stable energy supply needs to be ensured, and let me stress the importance of researching and developing sustainable energy sources. World demand for energy is expected to increase by 50%. by 2030 and almost doubled by 2050. And what do we do in Denmark? For 36 years now climate and environmental activists and a majority in the Folketing have succeeded in maintaining a de facto ban on public support for nuclear research. It has to stop now. The approach to the debate on a CO2 Take, for example: the billion-dollar investment to be made to the Minister's so-called energy island. The wind turbines result in a minimal reduction in CO2 The reduction that happens in Denmark will only be replaced by a corresponding increase in emissions elsewhere, and the money is thus wasted if it is a CO2 By removing the de facto ban on publicly supported research in nuclear energy we in Denmark can build a globally leading research environment in sustainable energy sources. With one, Denmark can help solve the global energy needs of the future. The research environment can also support promising Danish tech companies working on Danish research to help reduce CO2 All data and facts argue that Denmark quickly establishes a solid research environment in nuclear power. We should, can and must lift the legacy of Niels Bohr. Research in Denmark must, of course, also be about challenging questions about nuclear power, including questions about achieving the economic viability of nuclear power plants, improved reliability, efficient waste management and resource utilisation, and that is precisely what a large number of countries around the world are researching. In new citizens, we believe that research into and dissemination of nuclear technology can bring considerable benefits to a large extent compared with other sources of energy, but we are also not blind to the need for nuclear power to be adapted and constantly improved in terms of the best way to make nuclear power fit into the energy supply of the future. We also believe that nuclear power should be part of a larger energy supply system, including renewable energy sources such as sun, wind and water. Maintaining a de facto ban on public support of nuclear power is therefore a gigantic Danish self-target. It is beyond common sense and logic that, for example, Seaborg and other promising Danish nuclear research environments are not supported by the public and public research infrastructure. It is therefore time to reverse the de facto ban on publicly supported research in Denmark. The 1985 decision is not appropriate today. When we exclude certain solutions from the outset, we can be sure that we will not have the most green, the best and the cheapest energy supply in the long term. A Danish research effort in this area can help to make cleaner and cheaper energy available in the future locally, regionally and globally. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172624	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Signe Munk from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172630	I just need to understand one thing. The rapporteur has reached an agreement on the research reserve which does not contain a priority crown for either nuclear power or, specifically, nuclear power. So all I have to understand is that if this is New Citizens' policy, why have New Citizens just reached an agreement that distributes lots of research crowns where there is no priority for nuclear power?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172659	There is nothing unusual about concluding an agreement, even if you do not entirely agree with it. This shows precisely that there is a problem in allocating funds for nuclear research when a penny cannot be set aside in the research reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172714	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172714-2	One could also turn it around and say that it shows that it is a debate that New Citizens will take in this Chamber but will not pursue in the negotiating room. In addition, however, the rapporteur used a rather wild expression, which was that the rapporteur could see that nuclear power should be part of that energy system planning. Just to make it clear: it is not New Citizens' policy that there should be a nuclear power plant on Danish soil • is it correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172743	Yeah, that's right. We do not see this happening for a long time at least. So what is most important in relation to this resolution is precisely that we want to ensure that we can also research and that funds can be allocated and that a research environment can be built up in Denmark. We do not see that there will be a nuclear power station in Denmark for many years to come. I am well aware that there is a great deal of resistance among the population, so we consider that to be completely unrealistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172812	Thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen. There are no more brief comments. We need to get the alcohol off before the rapporteur goes down. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172912	The debate is open. We must first welcome the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406172935	Thank you. I have been looking forward to discussing this matter here in Parliament. This is first and foremost because it is another chapter in an effort that this society launched in 1993, namely when Mr Britta Christensen, then Mayor of Hvidovre, pointed out that there were problems with the emergence of socially divided cities, that too many people were outside the labour market who had a non-western background and who settled in Avedoor Stationsby. At that time, the government took a number of initiatives to ensure that a more mixed residential area was created and to ensure that people did not split up in the same way. However, ten years later, when we arrived in 2004, the then VK government found that the problem had not been resolved and that even more tools were actually needed. A programme committee on ghettoisation was set up, as it was called, and they tried to look at what could be done to ensure a more mixed housing mix. They came, among other things. I think it would be a good idea for us to do something about the waiting lists, to have the opportunity to tear up housing in some residential areas, and to ensure that other residents are attracted to these specific residential areas. It was also adopted in 2006. However, already in 2010 it was found that it had not gone far enough and that it was set up to use even more tools. Housing social work was introduced and efforts were made to ensure a more flexible rental in several residential areas. But it wasn't successful either. Then we came to 2018, when the then government set out to make a number of new initiatives on, among others. the housing sector, but also in a large number of other policy areas, which together constituted what was called the parallel society package. That is what we have been asked to deal with today, namely whether we should abolish development plans and abolish the lists of vulnerable residential areas. And I have to say that I would think that it would be the most curious decision I would have taken in the Folketing if we did so. We can now see that there is a marked increase in the influx of people living in vulnerable residential areas sending their children to day care centres. That's a clear objective of this piece of policy. There is an increase in the number of people in work. Two years have gone as far as the decade that preceded it. It is now 4 percentage points of those who have entered work, compared with 1.2 percentage points throughout the country. It has been a great success, and it has of course been with the aim of stopping the parallel societies which, whether you want to know or not, have been part of the Danish urban pattern that has grown larger over the years. I am not saying this in order to look at the efforts made in 1993, 2005 and 2010. I think what you did there was really right. However, I am pleased that in 2018, we managed to make an effort that was so ambitious that we have also succeeded so quickly in achieving such good results in that development. We took real responsibility for the development of a wide range of general housing areas where there were major problems and where, in most places, there are still major problems with employment, integration and crime, and the risk of creating parallel standards, parallel ideas in relation to the rule of law, in relation to women's equality, in relation to whether to go to work. We took responsibility for the actions against parallel societies, and we took responsibility for solving the challenges that were there. I believe that when we look back in 10 or 20 years on what was done of politics in 2010's Denmark, the parallel society package will stand as one of the key political packages which made a difference and which ensured that it was driven forward in the policy area in which it was put in place. What had not been possible in the last 20 years became possible, namely to make progress in our vulnerable residential areas. Now there has been a halving of the number of residential areas on the list. I think that has happened at an impressive rate, and this is, of course, primarily because more people have come to work. The aim of the effort is for the most vulnerable residential areas to be transformed into well-functioning districts in a mixed city where people of different backgrounds live together and meet each other across ethnic and social divisions in their rise, in the playgrounds, in the schools and day institutions, when you go to football, or when you are down in Netto to trade. That is the basis of our welfare societies. It can't work if we don't live together and meet each other on a daily basis. There is a need for basic trust and a fundamental will to contribute to the welfare society, and it can only be created by having a daily life together. That is why there is more at stake than just concrete legislation. I believe that we will challenge and risk much more if we do not stick to the efforts being made in our vulnerable residential areas. It is also about having a level playing field wherever you grow up. There is no such thing at this time. A child who grows up in Vollsmose is not given the same opportunities as a child who grows up in other parts of Odense. Of course, we should not accept that, and that is why this effort is so important, and that is why we in the government believe it should continue. That is why we are opposed to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406173532	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406173537	I would also be surprised if the Minister were to support the proposal today. I remember when the Minister was elected Minister of Housing. Then the people who deal with the area were happy. It was a dedicated minister; a minister who knows his area; a minister who will then skip the chain when it comes to the ghetto package. I just don't understand. Now the Minister mentions ethnicity. I have two questions for the Minister. The first is: can the Minister confirm that if you have an area where all the criteria are met, that is. That everyone is criminal, everyone is unemployed, the level of education is low in everyone, but the only criterion that is not met is the criterion of ethnicity, so can that area not be classified as a ghetto, so that the criterion of ethnicity is the determining factor for classification as a ghetto or not? Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406173636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406173638	Yes, I can confirm that, but I can also confirm the other side of the story, which is that if you have an area where people are at work, where people have an average ordinary income, then you are not on what is called the ghetto list, no matter what ethnicity you have. This is particularly true in Brøndby Strand, which is the case in Blågårds Plads, which the questioner himself has a close knowledge of, and this applies to the Værebroparken and a large number of other areas where there are more than 50 per cent. with a non-western background, but with a high level of employment in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406173711	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406173712	The problem with this ghetto package is that the United Nations has criticised it. Resident democracies have criticized it. Almost everyone who has even dealt with this area has criticised it here. And now, in his speech, the Minister mentions that you want to stop unemployment and that you want to fight crime. Then I would like to ask the Minister whether he can point to the concrete action in the ghetto package to ensure that unemployment is combated, so that more people are put into work. Where in the ghetto package are there concrete measures to get more people to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406173754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406173754-2	When we adopted the parallel society package in its entirety, there was money to secure employment initiatives in these residential areas. But what is at stake, of course, is that if you have too high an employment, you run the risk of getting on the lists. And what we can just see is that I understand that the questioner disagrees with this on the basis that the questioner has ■ that we just have to say that it has worked. Whether you agree with it or not, you can just see that people have come to work more in the last two years than they have in the many years that preceded it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406173826	Thank you. And the next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406173827	I think there has been some hope when the new government arrived, including in the housing sector, that perhaps there could be a different housing policy from the one led by the Liberal Alliance, and there we have to say that until now one can only have been disappointed. For example, I had... The hope, when you look at the new ghetto list, when you look at the margins, and when we have Solbakken in Odense, where you have made an effort and where there is one criminal too much in the statistics, compared to boning off in terms of being labeled as a hard ghetto, that you could then have found some political solution with the parliamentary basis, which could, like, come up with that so hard one does not have to be, because that area is in process, and that therefore one should come up with something that could show a little more humanity than the cold statistics. I would like to hear the Minister: is Solbakken in Odense a parallel society, and is it not reasonable that a friendly solution should be found so that 60% should not be dismantled? of the general family residences there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406173932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406173933	But that is the case if the Solbakken in Odense meets the criteria for what is called the hard ghetto list today, and that is why we must, of course, draw up a development plan for it. And it is not right that 60% should be settled. general family residences. For example, if you take an area like Tingbjerg, 60% will not be settled. general family residences. On the other hand, a great deal is being built, and I think that is something of the flexibility that this legislation offers. Then I would say that I do not agree with the Liberal Alliance, and the questioner knows that very well, and the Liberal Alliance knows that at least well when it comes to housing policy in general. But I think it is worth saying, Honor is to be given to him that is honored. And there is no doubt that the work that the Liberal Alliance has done in this context has been good, both from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's and Mrs Merete Riisager's side. I think they pointed to some problems which were very relevant and which very few others addressed. But that does not mean that I agree with the Liberal Alliance on housing policy. I would like that to be rejected, and I think they would like that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174035	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174036	I have now looked at the proposal made by the government, and I see it as an extension of the entire ghetto legislation that we are now going to limit the scope for immigration in residential areas where there is 30%. with non-Western background. And I would really like to hear: why is it so important for the government to extend discrimination against people with a non-Western background? This is really what happens when they are prevented from moving into another residential area • 58 residential areas where 100,000 people live at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174110-2	Well, we are suggesting that we can discriminate on the basis of citizenship, and that is what we are doing in many contexts. The question is whether there is a objective, and we think that clearly there is in relation to ensuring that there is integration that works. You could say that when Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is going down to vote for a parliamentary election, there is also discrimination on the basis of citizenship. If you don't have one, you don't get into the voting box with a ballot card. And in this way there are many places around our society where you have a objective and where you can then discriminate on the basis of citizenship, and that is what we are proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174141	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174146	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It caused some memories. We moved to Avedoer Stationsby ourselves. My divorced mother, who works as an unskilled worker, could not afford to buy a home on the Danish housing market, and it is not a housing market that has actually become cheaper since. She wanted to pull down the statistics, she was not born in Denmark and gets the label non-Western immigrant. I just want to hear the Minister about having a home, having a safe housing framework. I dare not think about what consequences it would have had if we had not quickly been able to have a secure framework. My mother has had the same job for many, many years, and they are really happy to have her at work, but if something as basic as your home disappears under one, what consequences doesn't it have? What are the consequences of getting away from your network, your school, those you know, your colleagues, and the place where you have your fixed place of work? I think that the Minister avoids answering the question of where the agreement is doing something that actually ensures something in relation to employment. Because I agree that we need to do more to create jobs and jobs, but I cannot find anything about it in the ghetto law, and I would ask the Minister to point that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174300	But it is, as I say, that money has been set aside in concrete terms. I wonder whether the questioner has even read these nine legislative proposals that have been adopted. There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... I believe that this is 136 million in the area of employment. I don't remember the exact figure. I have no doubt about what we are discussing here. Are these the same things we have adopted or where are we? There's money set aside for it. We can see that the municipalities have made some excellent efforts in some places. I have just been to the municipality of Sønderborg, where employment has increased by 8 percentage points in two years. Think of it: 8 percentage points, from about 49 per cent outside the labour market to about 41 per cent. It is crazy to have succeeded in doing so, among other things. based on this legislation. I think that's just amazing. Try to think of all the people who have got a job and whose children experience that Mom and Dad walk out the door in the morning and go to work and come home in the afternoon and have something to tell. That's the most important thing. This is the crucial factor in ensuring that children have a good life and that they can also break the social heritage themselves if that is what they need. It's like you're at work, so I think that's amazing to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174404	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174406	Then I shall make it clear if the Minister is in doubt. How is it that people's homes are being demolished, where housing is being privatised, where moving away from the housing area in which they have grown up is something that helps to boost employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174425	As I say, the overall agreement that we have drawn up has specifically strengthened employment in these residential areas, and it has, of course, done so because there is a mechanism in place to ensure that there are not too many people who are unemployed and where it is important to ensure that efforts are made by the municipalities and housing organisations to ensure that those living in the area get some real offers to get to work and that they are helped on their way to it. So in this way it helps all those who live there, and it is wrong, moreover, that the only thing that happens is that you tear down housing and sell housing. In the vast majority of areas, no housing is sold.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174457	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174500	It is easy enough to get unemployment down by throwing out the unemployed. I think that the Minister's satisfaction at the developments is somewhat out of proportion and a little lack of respect for these 56 000 citizens, who really mean this resolution very, very seriously. I also think that the Minister takes more credit than the Minister should. Does the Minister really believe that the progress made in these residential areas is one hundred percent due to the legislation we are talking about today? In other words, there have been plenty of other projects with homework help, with pocket money help and with educational aid. There have been a lot of outreach projects. Will the Minister really take credit for all this development just because of the legislation being discussed today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174550	No, I do not want to do that, and the questioner has of course made a point in this respect, in other words that there are a large number of other efforts which have been there for many years and which have slowly improved the situation, for example on employment. But what we can see is that in the last two years, when you have had this legislation, it has just gone much stronger, and it is not the case that you have just thrown out people who are unemployed. After all, it is the municipalities that have been out to ensure that people living in residential areas get to work. I can't believe you can't object to that. So it is awesome that this task is taken seriously and that people are given the life opportunities that it gives to be in work rather than to go home. I got, among other things. Referenced from Guldborgsund Municipality something about a residential area, Lindholm, located down there. Useful jobs had been created for those who lived there and who had been longterm unemployed. They had been in such a process outside the residential area, then they came back, and then there was 39%. of those who had gone out and had been given an ordinary, unsupported job. Those are wild numbers. That when you take a group of long-term unemployed, you can turn them around by making those bets, I think is terrific.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174653	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174655	Well, these are lovely numbers. What I am saying, and what it sounds like the Minister admits a little, is that the Minister cannot stand and take all the credit for this through this legislation. Something else is: How much is it? What is the success on the back of it? After all, thousands of families, families with children, have had to move from their homes and have had their social networks torn apart. What do the Minister think of the many children who suddenly stand without comrades and have to move to a new place, or who have had their lives, their social contacts, ruined by this law at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174735-2	I have to say in relation to that figure, and now I saw that the rapporteur got a note in his hand, that I would call for it to be checked. There are no thousands of families of children who have been moved out of their homes at all. So, it is totally off, and I think, at least, that in this debate we need to be able to discuss on a factual basis. I don't know what the number is. I believe that so far it is a relatively small group which has been asked to move from where they live. Thousands are fucked up. Of course, I have to take it really, that is, from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174811	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174814	Thank you. Unfortunately, the Minister's speech does not surprise me. I wish I could be surprised. However, I would like to turn a little towards the criteria that make an area called a exposed residential area or a ghetto. On the one hand, there is a criterion of ethnicity which has been debated and which, incidentally, the Radical Left also strongly disagrees with, but there are also some other criteria that go on employment, crime, education and income levels, and there may actually be some sense in looking at some objective criteria that citizens can also move from. But those criteria have also been criticised for building on some old figures, and there are some consequences of a residential area coming on the ghetto list. Now, for example, we are standing. in a period of corona, unemployment has increased, and could we not risk suddenly seeing an increase in the number of ghetto areas where housing needs to be demolished, where all kinds of development plans need to be made, while the citizens are in a situation that is completely innocent because there has been a crisis, by the way, a health crisis, from the outside? What does the Minister really have to say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406174922	What I have to say is that if you look at the latest figures for employment in those areas, you see that the figures on the list of hard-hit areas are similar or lower than the figures two years ago. Now, as the questioner also points out, there are old figures, I would say that this is a rolling average over two years, and that is to ensure that there are not too many fluctuations. It is then interpreted as old numbers, but the essence of it is that when the new list is made, the numbers that are deleted will be higher than those that come in. There will still be figures for 2020 and then there will be figures for 2021, but those that are for 2021 will be lower than those that were for 2019. In other words, no one is at risk of being on the list because of an employment caused by corona. We have also sent the figures to the parliamentary committee and we can do it again. There was a recent consultation with the SF, I think it was about that. So I am not afraid of that, because it is certainly not in the figures I have been given so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175023	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175024	I would like us to discuss the criteria, also in relation to how they come about, and perhaps to look at something more dynamic, something that relates to the individual residential areas, that is, how the individual residential area improves. Then I will move on to something a little different, as the authors of the motion also point out, and that is about the demolition of ordinary, healthy, good housing, for which there may even be a waiting list. There's a climate impact there. Now we are some parties that have reached an agreement on sustainable construction, and so there is also something that clashes with each other, and I would also like to hear the Minister's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175105	It is clear that, of course, there will be a loss of building materials when you tear down, and there will be a climate impact, but, on the other hand, it must also be said that if you make a renovation of the corresponding properties in the way that you have a tradition of in the general housing sector, there will also be a climate impact on it. And the fact is that in many of the residential areas, instead of possible demolition, there will be renovation. In Sønderborg Municipality there is an area called Nørager, where it had been planned to tear down some of the homes because they were too worn down to make sense to renovate them. So in some places there will be a minor impact, but it is clear that elsewhere there will be a greater climate impact. I'm not gonna stand there pretending there won't be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175141	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. The next speaker is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Tanja Larsson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175201	With this citizens' proposal, it is proposed to repeal parallel social legislation. In social democracy, we believe that parallel social legislation is good. In fact, we are so pleased with it that in March we presented a new housing initiative proposing that much more residential areas should be covered by legislation on parallel societies. With our efforts towards parallel societies, we want to transform the most vulnerable residential areas into well-functioning neighbourhoods where people meet each other in residential areas, in schools, in the day institutions, across ethnicity, social and economic parameters. Ultimately, the effort is to ensure that all children really have equal opportunities in life, no matter where they grow up. We believe that it would be problematic to repeal parallel social legislation, because that means not taking responsibility for the massive problems experienced in a large number of residential areas with unemployment, poor integration and crime. We have recently been able to learn that parallel social legislation works as intended. In December we were able to welcome the news that the number of exposed residential areas and ghetto areas has almost halved. In the social democracy we do not want a Denmark where we live apart from each other on the basis of ethnicity, social and economic parameters. We want us to live together. For a country like ours, with a model of society, where a strong cohesion of the population is essential, parallel society is harmful. On the other hand, we want a society with secure residential areas where we live mixed with each other and where resourceful residents can lift resourceless socially and culturally. Social democracy cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175416	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175421	Yes, thank you to the rapporteur. I simply have to ask one more question, because both the Minister and the rapporteur talked about this unemployment. So could the rapporteur not try to point out the concrete steps which the Ghetto Act will take to ensure that unemployment falls and more people get to work? Because otherwise I completely misunderstood something here. In other words, the ghetto law does not have any measures to help people get to work; it is intended to reduce unemployment. So would the rapporteur not just point this out in such a concrete way and say that it is this measure in the ghetto law that strengthens people's access to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175510	I think I'd rather answer in a different way. It is about politics for me, and for social democracy it is about politics; it is about how we live with each other. And there are many things that help to change the overall sum. In fact, we believe that with the way we have the parallel society package today, we are helping to change that composition. I think the Minister quite well answered the rapporteur on how, among other things, he said. the municipalities are helping to increase employment out there with various measures under the local authority regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175544	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175545	Okay, so I hear the rapporteur say that the ghetto package does not contain a number of concrete measures to make more people get to work, but that it is an interaction between a lot of things that make people get to work. That's what I hear. For now I have asked the Minister and now I have asked the rapporteur; there is no concrete answer. I should like once again to ask the rapporteur one thing. If everyone in one area is a criminal and everyone in that area is unemployed but does not meet the ethnicity criterion, can they ever get on the ghetto list; can that area ever be classified as a ghetto?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175623-2	Yes, thank you. I think there were many mixed issues in this, so I will try to sketch it out completely and say that in the world where I come from, I am a physiotherapist, and when you retrain, and when you can see that the direction one has set for a rehabilitation plan actually makes the patient walk, then you continue and hold on, so that the patient is retrained and rehabilitated. As far as I am concerned, we are faced with legislation and I know it hurts some people; I know that this is also difficult on many fronts for many people. But we have to hold on when we can see that things work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175701	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175704	My question is how many people have been thrown out of these residential areas, i.e. whether thousands have been thrown out. I think the rapporteur should say to his a little arrogant minister that I am not here to speak on the basis of telephone messages, I am just getting research that has been carried out, and anyone can google that there are many who indicate that approx. 11,000 people have had to move. How many of them may have moved anyway, I would like to take part in discussing it, there may be a few percent who would have done it anyway; it may be that some thousands would have done it anyway but when I say that thousands of people have had to move, that thousands of families with children have cut their social ties and that thousands of children have cut their social networks and that it is then that some of this success rests, then I would like to hear what the rapporteur says about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175801-2	I understand the problem here and now, but I also think we need to look further forward. These are areas of social control and so on, so how else will the questioner do away with this? We have to change the composition and dynamics of these areas. We owe this to the children who grow up in these areas. We owe that to the people who live there. We owe it to them to ensure a better life for children so that they can get a good education so that they can get good education and become part of our labour market. We owe them that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175842	Thank you. Both the questioner and the rapporteur are allowed to pay attention to their language in the Assembly. Tanja Larsson Yes. I'm sorry). Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175848	Well, of course we owe it to them to give them a better life. The question is just how. In other words, there is a lot of excellent outreach work going on; there are plenty of things for which the Minister and the rapporteur stand and take credit, which are not due at all to this package of homework help, pocket money schemes, internships. How can the rapporteur stand and say that this is the only way to do so when the success achieved cannot even be attributed to the legislation that the rapporteur stands and defends?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175920	Thank you. I think the Minister was very good at commending the initiatives that I heard at least from where I was sitting and I would also like to say that the other initiatives that have been taken have been good, but it just cannot stand alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175936	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406175939	Thanks for the speech. Now the rapporteur's minister could understand it as if the proposal were going to roll back the social measures. So I should just like to ask briefly whether the rapporteur can confirm that the citizens' proposal will abolish the amendments to the General Housing Act and not the social measures. I'm thinking that should be very easy, so there's a question coming up. This is about the part of the rapporteur's speech about taking responsibility for unemployment. Where do the amendments to the General Housing Act take responsibility for unemployment? Does the rapporteur really not agree with his party member Mr. Does Henrik Møller say that forced relocation and demolition do not solve the socio-economic challenges? And as a physiotherapist, could the rapporteur not continue rehabilitation and, in fact, stop the break-up that is otherwise being seen and take his professional skills into political work? Very few people have been evicted. It can be stopped in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180042	Thank you. I can now hear that the two of us have a very different professional background, because the question has been a little over. I would say that I think this is about exactly as I replied to the rapporteur for the Alternative to change the composition and dynamics of these residential areas. That's what it's all about, end-to-end, creating better lives for children and better opportunities for children, end-to-end. That is where we stand as social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180113	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180115	It's like amputating the leg, that's to say, having a good time in rehab and seeing that it works, and then thinking that it doesn't work, but we just ignore it, and then we amputate the leg instead. That doesn't make any sense. I'd rather stop it and continue rehabilitation. That is what I do not understand, in other words, that the rapporteur does not actually agree with his party member that this does not solve the socio-economic efforts. And I'm just thinking that it's got to be good social-democratic politics, or at least it's been the previous thing to prevent; that you want to secure a housing that's affordable, and then do something about the entire housing market, which is many other places, so that we can just get a variety of urban spaces and other things elsewhere instead of tearing down where the housing is actually affordable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180156	Thank you. That is what I mean by us two having very different professional backgrounds, because sometimes amputation is the best. It sounds very hard and harsh to say this, but it is, of course, about us having to ensure that people have a better future. After all, we need to create some housing situations where we all live with each other across borders. I hope we agree. I do not hear the questioner's opinion on this, but I do hope that the questioner agrees with the Social Democrats where we want to end up with our society, namely that we have to live together, mixed, and that children regardless of ethnicity or parental background, or whatever, must have a level playing field. I hope we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180242	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180243	The rapporteur has now highlighted the new proposal from the Social Democratic Party, where there are 58 residential areas where there are 100,000 people living, and which will then limit the possibility for unemployed people or people with non-Western background to move in without ensuring that they have a similar offer. Where is it that the poorest people have to live if that is the view of the Social Democrats? So, we are in a situation where there are 1 million people in Denmark who live in general housing and who have been and are very much opposed to this ghetto legislation that has been in force. And now the Social Democracy comes with one more layer on the cake, which, as such, extends the restrictions on people with a non-Western background and increases discrimination against those people, without making sure that you have something else for them, and if employment is the problem, it has to be said that there was nothing on the employment side in this proposal. Because it has... [Sound emission]... that you would actually help the people who live in these areas, and you would help those people that you wouldn't allow to move into those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180353	Thank you. In order to stay in the same jargon as before, I have to say that this is also about prevention. Well, it's as simple and as simple as that. After all, it is a question of ensuring that those areas do not move in a skewed direction. And then I would say: there are a lot of people who are welcome to move to rural areas where I live. There aren't all that expensive housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180417	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180418	If you look at the more urban municipalities like this, you can see that we have ten municipalities in Denmark, which have very many general housing, and you just have to see that none of the ten municipalities have any areas in the so-called ghettoists at the moment. So the fact that many ordinary dwellings have been built in some municipalities has thus helped to ensure that people could live in a reasonable home without anyone earning money from it. Can the rapporteur not see that the way forward is more general housing, rather than having legislation here, where there is a risk of removing general housing by selling them or tearing them down?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180455	Thank you. Well, I think the questioner is mixing pears and bananas with this. What we stand for here today is, of course, from our point of view at least, about changing the composition of vulnerable residential areas in ghetto areas. This is, of course, about, as I have said sometimes, creating good lives for children and giving them good opportunities to get out and get the lives they want. That is what it is all about and about taking action early. We also know this from prevention. It helps to focus on it. We can see that with the package we have already adopted a few years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180529	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Mrs. Heidi Bank, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406180547	The Left wants a coherent Denmark • a Denmark based on democratic values such as freedom and legal certainty, equality and freeness of speech, tolerance and equality. We will provide people with opportunities and freedom for children, young people, the elderly, women and men. The life with that freedom and the opportunities is under pressure for those who live in areas strongly characterized by parallel societies, without the freedom of individuals, especially girls and women, are limited. Left wants a Denmark without parallel societies and without ghettos by 2030. That's why in the VLAK government in 2018 we came up with initiatives in the housing sector that counteract parallel societies because we were and are in a situation where too many are without training, without jobs, without the opportunities and living conditions that follow, where too many live in an everyday life unrelated to the surrounding society, except for the fixed performance that per year. Automatically dumps through the door of the welfare society, paid by all the ordinary people and companies who have chosen the community for. This cannot be done either for the individual or for our community. We should be more ambitious on behalf of the people trapped in a parallel reality. It is absolutely necessary that we stand firm that this time we must succeed in bringing about the necessary change, creating cohesion. In the Left, we want children and young people in these residential areas to have better conditions in life, and we want women to have freedom, freedom, others in Danish society to enjoy and live without the tough social control, and we want more people to get to work. It is therefore deeply questionable that the government has increased the benefits to unemployed immigrants, because it does the opposite when the economic difference between taking a job and sitting at home becomes too small. For yes, the government chooses to keep those people outside the community, and women take away the opportunity to get a job away from home, away from the parallel society, the families take away the incentive for both parents to have a job and children strong examples in which they can reflect themselves. It's the wrong way to go. Changing the residential areas does not come by itself, because that would have happened a long time ago. The reality is that too many municipalities have allowed themselves to stand up and perhaps have to stand up because it takes a massive effort to transform the most vulnerable residential areas into ordinary, well-functioning neighbourhoods. This requires firm tools, and that is what we politically gave the municipalities in 2018. We have come a long way, but are still gone only at the beginning. Efforts are being made to bring about change for people in the areas concerned. The municipalities are key co-players, and the municipalities are working hard to draw up and implement development plans. And the municipalities are making an enormous effort, among other things. in order to ensure that the citizens affected move forward well. The families are not put on the streets, although one can get the impression from the rhetoric that sometimes runs, but is helped to another home. I'm not gonna stand here pretending it's easy to move. I've moved nine times myself. It takes time to get used to a new place. But it can be done, and it can open up new opportunities, a new start for those affected and for their children. I also know that some of the people concerned choose to see it as such, that is to say as an opportunity. We are not going to have parallel societies in Denmark, and we are not going to have ghettos in Denmark. We must have well-functioning urban communities with opportunities and well-being, and we are on our way, but, as I said, there is still a long way to go. The Left will not support the citizens' proposal, although I was delighted, overall, to see the commitment that has been made and that there are proposers who would like to influence and influence. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181013	Thank you for that and there are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181018	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Choosing the community sounds lovely. I spoke to a resident from Vollsmose. If his family had been able to afford it, he would not have chosen to move to Vollsmose so he said it directly to me. That is why I would like to ask: what does it mean to choose the community for the Left? Is it really only for those who can afford it? Or how are we going to get the many opportunities that the rapporteur is talking about; how are we going to get the opportunity to do so? Should it be for the many, or should it be for the few? For some of the things that are of course with the general housing is that, regardless of the size of your wallet, you have the opportunity to move in. Therefore, it is a place where a great many of those who cannot afford the housing market we have in Denmark can actually afford to move in. So are the possibilities for the many or for the few?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181120	Thank you for the question from the rapporteur. In fact, I think that the rapporteur is making a slightly wrong point. I do not see it as a problem that there should be public housing; I see it as a positive thing that we also have general housing. I think we should have a diversity of housing, and that is what the Left believes, namely that we should have a mixed housing stock. So I don't quite understand that problem. But choosing the community is to become a part of society. It is not a question of becoming like everyone else, that we should all be the same, but it is of course a question of choosing to contribute, of choosing to embark on the opportunities that exist in society and of having the freedom to do so. Because that is precisely the main concern of these parallel societies, namely the restrictions imposed on women and girls in particular. And as I see it, it is something that hits the men and hits the young boys. Because if we do not have the equality that exists between the sexes and that is necessary for a well-functioning society, as I see it, then we will lose some opportunities. So it is, of course, that community feeling that we all have opportunities and that we are all worth something that binds us together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181233	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181235	Thank you. Freedom, community and opportunity are at least one of the things that I fight for and that I really dream that we can create. The problem is, if you don't have one, for example. Living in Odense and wanting a home and you don't have much money, where is it that you have the fastest access to space? It is, for example. in Vollsmose and so it is very many different places. So I just think that these words about freedom and opportunities for some good can sound a bit privilege-blind because you can't afford to do it anywhere else. And now you want to tear down housing and privatise housing where you can actually afford, instead of making a greater effort in the other places so that you could have a more diverse urban space.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181319	I really think that a wrong picture is being drawn. I do not know whether it is because the rapporteur does not know, but there are quite a lot of places where an agreement was made that housing should be built in the same way as those being demolished. After all, a huge effort is being made, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, on the part of the municipalities to ensure that these residents can move forward. But that doesn't change the fact that when you stand out there and hear that your home is one of those who can be torn down, one of those who will be removed, one of those who will be sold off, then it hits, and I think we should have a great deal of respect for that, that is to say it hits. And that is also why it is important and we should be glad that the municipalities take this task so seriously that they try to ensure that people can move on properly, and that is what happens to me. But I certainly do not see that it is the way in which it is spoken from the left side of the House that attempts are made to demonise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181405	Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181407	Thank you to the rapporteur. In my view, the problem is that, in order to promote legislation here and to argue for legislation, we use terms such as unemployment, education and negative social control. And now I could ask the same question that I have asked the Minister, but I will not, because I know that there is nothing in the Ghetto Act about measures to ensure that more people get to work, etc. etc. So I'm not gonna ask that question. On the other hand, what I want instead to hear from the rapporteur is that there has been massive criticism of the ghetto law and massive criticism from human rights experts, and the UN has been out talking about it and saying that it is discrimination and from resident democracies. There has been massive criticism. I would like to hear it quite openly, what the Left is thinking about this massive criticism, which comes from human rights experts and which comes from the United Nations, which is of course professionals, we listen to normally, which we address, and which we at least ensure that our policy navigates, that is, the United Nations, etc. What does the rapporteur of the Left think and what does the Left think when there is so much massive criticism about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181521	I really think that is a very good question. I'd have liked to have the other one, but now we're gonna take this. I think the important thing when you receive criticism is that we can all find a way of accepting praise is that you listen carefully to what is being said. I think it is also important that we remember why we want to do this. It's not to discriminate. I don't mean to discriminate. It's precisely because we want you to be able to be part of Danish society, no matter what ethnicity you come with, no matter what skin color you have, and that your children will have the best possible opportunities this society can help to give them. So for me, this is really about the goal, and the whole reason why the VLAK government made this move in its time is that you want a society without ghetto areas and without these parallel societies by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181611	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181612	But again, I just get confused. The rapporteur says that, regardless of ethnicity, there must be equal opportunities. But isn't that right, and I asked that question before, that if you have an area where all the criteria are met, that is, where everyone is unemployed and everyone is criminal, but if the ethnicity criterion isn't met, you can't get on the ghetto list, so you can't be classified as a ghetto? There is discrimination there, and that is what everyone is pointing out. And then I just want to ask if we have not really ended up in a situation where the end justifies the means. We really want to get rid of something, and then we're on a slippery slope ourselves. Well, there aren't equal opportunities when it's that there's an ethnicity criterion that allows you to be classified as a ghetto or not a ghetto. Could the rapporteur say a few words about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181702	I can, of course, turn it around and ask whether the rapporteur does not see that it is a problem that we are not going to solve these challenges. Does the rapporteur not see that when we have parallel societies in Denmark, this contributes to some problems? I have just been in an open consultation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, where he is just talking about these issues that are that non-western male immigrants are over-represented in rape statistics. Well, that's because there are problems we need to solve, and then not because if you're a non-Western immigrant and a man, you won't be able to have the same values • not necessarily be a Dane and eat meatballs, but have some of the same values about how to see women and treat them properly. So we're gonna have to solve these challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181744	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181746	The rapporteur said that change does not happen by itself. And there's something quiet going on out there. There's, for example, there's... many young women who grow up in these areas we are talking about who choose to train. Some processes are in progress which are very positive, and I think we should respect that. I would like to ask about Skovgårdsparken in Aarhus, because they saved themselves, they did not come on the hard ghetto list, and I would really like to hear whether the rapporteur regards Skovgårdsparken as a parallel society, as a ghetto. And I would like to know whether the rapporteur, with the posts that the rapporteur has, both in Aarhus City Council and in the Danish Parliament, will help to ensure that no further penalties are imposed on Skovgårdsparken, that we do not go further in Aarhus, as if Skovgårdsparken were on the hard ghetto list, that is to say, that we also respect the efforts made to get out of the hard ghetto list and allow them to continue the development in which the residents are the dynamo rather than that Aarhus City Council would be able to do something harder than what is imposed on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181853	Now I know that the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten would like to make this a question of just being able to do something about 1%. or 1⁄2%. But I could also turn it around and ask the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten: where is the border going? For the reality is that Enhedslisten doesn't want this at all; they want it to be as it has always been, that is, that you don't do anything at all. And I simply cannot understand that. I cannot understand why you want to leave those women and those children and, by the way, those men and boys in parallel societies where you do not see people as equal. I just can't understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181929	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406181930	Well, that was a nice way of trying to ask a question instead of answering the two questions that were asked. I asked whether the rapporteur regards Skovgårdsparken as a parallel society, as a ghetto. And I wondered if the rapporteur could answer whether the rapporteur in Aarhus City Council would go further, as if Skovgårdsparken is a tough ghetto, and thus go into some, what to say, processes in which the Skovgårdsparken is punished, despite the fact that they have made a great effort and have not ended up on the hard ghetto list. These were the two questions I put in my first brief comment. And if the rapporteur wants to ask me questions, there is a chance of that a little later.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182007	Well, I believe that prevention is needed in relation to these areas, and I also believe that there have been massive problems in Skovgårdsparken. Now it is the case that the things that are going on in Aarhus City Council, I sit and discuss with my city council group in Aarhus and not as part of my parliamentary work. But I think we should take it as seriously, and I think that the areas on the border should be given enormous attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182030	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182032	Thank you. I know the Left as a liberal party which also has the slogan, or at least has had it, that Denmark is for those who can and will. I would therefore like to hear what the rapporteur will say to the doctor who has taken medical training and is also in employment, has never committed crime, has a level of income which is relatively high, but who, with his Afghan background alone, with its Afghan background, helps to turn a residential area into a ghetto, helps to expose its neighbours to the need for demolition plans. Because if it were me, I just wouldn't know what to say. It is a person who does everything right, does everything you expect him to do, but then there is one thing you can't change, and it's your origin. What will the rapporteur say to the person concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182138	I hope it is not the case that the rapporteur thinks it alone with his background. It is the case that some criteria have been set, and I am not saying that they are perfect, and I understand that you can have that feeling that if it were just that you could move it a little to one side or the other. But you have to be able to work with this, and that's also why we have a lot of things where we keep lists and where we keep statistics about it, and you can wrinkle a little bit on your nose, but it's a way to try to navigate a field. But I would like to commend that doctor for doing everything right, and I would like to commend them for contributing positively to what they are doing, because that also helps to set an example in that area and to lift something.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182226	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182227	But now it is only the background in this case that is decisive. And I do not think it is praise that one needs, I think it is a completely different form of recognition, precisely that in which one does not get a stamp on the basis of exactly ethnicity. The minister honestly called it discrimination. Will the rapporteur also do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182255	I simply cannot understand why the rapporteur on the Radical Left cannot see that, if we do not do something, the children of the doctor will find themselves in a state of disarray on the streets. If, on a dark night, the son walks the street and a girl walks and is afraid of him, then we have to get on the long track to solve these problems. Surely it is not a fair treatment of the doctor's son, that is to say, one looks at him skewed by the skin color alone, and because there are some statistics knocking out. That is because we have no control over our cohesion, that is because we have no control over our drawing of the same values, and that is because there are some who are completely on the lists compared to others. This is serious, and we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182336	There are no more brief comments to the Left rapporteur, so thank you for that. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182351	Thank you, President. Sometimes it happens that a citizen's proposal runs into an agreement with which parties in the Folketing are bound, and this also applies to this citizen's proposal, which among other things. is about the ghetto agreement, which Dansk Folkeparti is part of together with a large, broad majority in the Danish Parliament. For this reason alone, we cannot vote in favour of this citizens' proposal, so we will vote against it. In addition, we will also be voting against it because we do not agree with the content. We in the Danish People's Party are quite happy with the ghetto agreement. Let me begin by saying that the reason why we have made the ghetto agreement at all is that since the 1980s we have had a large influx of people from, among others, the United Kingdom. The Middle East, which has caused severe problems of integration, assimilation, unemployment, violence, crime and other ills. And some of these people have then lumped themselves together in some specific areas, among others. in the part of Odense where I live, namely in Vollsmose Sogn. I have had the great pleasure and honour of sitting in Odense City Council for three periods, a total of 12 years, and there we often discussed Vollsmose, and I remember one time asking about the many projects that had been undertaken in the district. You didn't have an overview of them in the municipality, and you didn't know if they worked either. That is why the ghetto agreement is a break with decades of attempts to change residential areas. Projects have been tried, but they have not got anywhere. What is crucial is, of course, that we ensure the creation of diverse housing areas, and many means a diversity of different types of housing. That is to say general housing, that is, private rentals, cohabitation homes, terraced houses, farmhouses, so people mostly live together in Denmark, instead of some specific ones lumping themselves together and creating parallel societies, and that is what has happened in Vollsmose, unfortunately. When you crawl together, especially when you come from Middle Eastern cultures, these parallel societies arise that really make it difficult for people to integrate. Some of them have citizenship and cannot be sent home, which is why it is our job to ensure that they are assimilated, that they become Danes, and the only way they can be, is of course through generations to be with Danes. But if they are only in their parallel societies where they meet their own, then they are not integrated, then they are cut off, and they are also blinded, and they are also frightened. What I have noticed is that some of them then buy houses in the outermost regions around Vollsmose, and the first thing they get set up is a huge wooden fence so you can't see them and can't look into them. So there is a strong desire to protect ourselves from Danes, and I think that is a shame, because I actually think that we Danes are quite nice and nice and nice in Denmark, and I don't quite understand why you don't want to be with us. Then I would just like to say that in Vollsmose a great Vollsmose plan has been adopted and it means a huge transformation of the area. Some homes will be torn down that will be new. The residents of the area have voted in favour of this plan, so the residents themselves are interested in this development. I would also just like to say that some of the residents are also interested in their children becoming Danish, because they send them out of the area, to the secondary schools in the primary schools, and this has meant that where before there were three primary schools in Vollsmose, there is only one primary school left, because parents have chosen to integrate their children. And then it's just easier if you make sure that there are different types of housing that are mixed in advance. So the ghetto plan is good housing policy and good housing policy is good integration policy and that is why we continue to support the ghetto plan and we are voting against this citizens' proposal. I know that there are proposers of the citizens' motion present here in the gallery, and this was the words of the Danish People's Party on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182905	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406182907	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. On early retirement, the rapporteur's colleague, employment rapporteur, Mr. Bent Bøgsted, said it is important for both physically and mentally ill people that they can live with peace of mind it was during a debate on temporary early retirement. The Danish People's Party has also been involved in fighting against the erosion of early retirement, and at this time we are also fighting to try to stop the set-offs in relation to mutual dependants. These are all different things that can make early retirement workers not have such a tight economy as they do today. But when you don't have so much money to move around with, it makes sense that more early retirementists actually live in these general residential areas, and that doesn't give soul peace. So it doesn't • nor in Vollsmose, to risk that your home for many years, where there may be the aids you need to get around if you are physically disabled, being torn down. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is the rapporteur's view that early retirement is a negative factor in statistics?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183022	I really think we should respect the citizens' proposal as it has been put forward, and this is about the ghetto plan as a whole. The Danish People's Party supports the ghetto plan, which is why we are voting against this bill. With regard to the second point, I would like to say that the individual thing that makes us have to look at the residential areas where there are problems is simply that there are too many people with the same background who crawl together. In Vollsmose, which I know quite well, two thirds come, for example. from Middle Eastern cultures, and up to 60%. has been on some form of transfer income in the past, and that is not good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183112	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183114	But does the rapporteur not agree with me that when you get an early retirement pension, it is because you are too sick to have a job and that you are therefore entitled to the early retirement pension you have been given? Does the rapporteur not think that it is wrong for people to be categorized as those who do not have a job? Does the Danish People's Party not consider it unreasonable that early retirement should be counted negatively in the statistics?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183143	Well, I'm not sure they count negative. It is, after all, a criterion, along with a large number of other criteria, which together determine which category you belong to as a residential area. And it has to be said that the policy pursued since the 1980s has not succeeded and that what has been tried for three decades has not succeeded. What we are going to do now will make a difference, and that is why we are voting against this citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183214	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Halime Oguz, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183236	Thank you. The aim of the parallel community agreement is to change the composition of residents in the areas and to address the many social and cultural problems that plague the areas, primarily for the benefit of the people who live there. I understand some of the scepticism about the agreement. In the ideal world we were it besides, but unfortunately the reality is just another. When I think the agreement is a good idea, for example, it's because I'm thinking of Lisbeth Zornig's story about adult and child life in these areas where you didn't really have any strong models and everyone looked like each other. Who were the victims? It was the kids. According to those who come from the underclass, these environments can have their own lives of abuse, violence and unemployment. The resourceful were lacking, both to raise the areas concretely, but also to give the children of the area the hope of a better future. The problems in the country's vulnerable residential areas, as Zornig and others have described, will not be reduced when we discuss areas with an overweight ethnic minority. It is well documented that this group has challenges with religious extremism, women's oppression and massive social control of young girls. If we do not recognise that these are people who subscribe to values quite different from ours, we will never solve the problems, and then we will simply abandon the young people who grow up and are behind on points from the start of life. Despite my struggle to remain calm, I am often provoked by the view that the problems of social control and reactionary religious practice should be socio-economic first and foremost. Can they not then tell all those women who have lost their freedom and dignity why in the world they have not helped to solve these social problems in the past? The policy of clean hands is complicit in the fact that the problems have been reproducing for decades. How can the extremism used by rabid imams to poison young people be a social problem? How can the oppression of women and the massive social control of girls be a social problem when the reactionary world view is defended by religion and tradition? When has there been such widespread problems with social control in vulnerable ethnic Danish environments? Why do almost all Danish women feel that they have the same freedom to choose their boyfriend as men, but even resourceful girls with a different ethnic background answer in studies that they do not? When is an ethnic Danish girl in a social housing facility beaten to shreds because she has got herself a boyfriend, or to make a virgin reconstruction to get married because she is required to be clean? If these conditions are not addressed, the parallel environments will continue to exist. In addition, ethnic minorities in these areas continue to be over-represented in crime statistics, even after adjustment for socio-economic conditions and, unfortunately, when looking at descendants, it does not get any better. Finally, there is employment where immigrants are heavily over-represented when it comes to transfer income and, in particular, women are challenged. It is not discrimination to speak out loud and openly about these problems. On the contrary, it is precisely the vulnerable, the weak and the economically distressed who fail to pretend that the problems do not exist out of misunderstood considerations. It is my clear conviction that if we are to get anywhere with that struggle, we must change the composition of the inhabitants of Denmark's exposed areas, and I cannot understand why those who otherwise celebrate diversity are turning against this. For where is the diversity in ethnic minorities living somewhere in the country while ethnic Danes live somewhere else? Where is the diversity of crowding unemployed and sick people together in a corner of the municipality, while the rest of us resourceful can live far away with their backs to the problems? So when we in the SF want to do away with parallel societies, it is not to discriminate, but to drag people into the great community, the community where there is no skeleton to ethnic, cultural and religious differences, but where people are treated equally. This means a difference, that is, a community in which the brown and white boy, as Martin Luther King would have said, can go together hand in hand; where women can be allowed to unfold and create their own lives, and where young people can manage in educational institutions and enjoy the same freedom as their ethnic Danish peers. That is why we need to put an end to parallel societies. It is primarily a question of solidarity and of putting the cohesion and collective well-being of society in front of narrow consideration of the right to live divided With these comments, I would like to say that the SF cannot support the citizens' proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183745	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and first it is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183748	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very emotional speech, but I strongly disagree. SF has signed up to the 70-percent target and is working to achieve this 70-percent target, but in a life cycle analysis carried out by the Tegnestuen Water Art they point out that by tearing down these homes, the climate will be strained by up to 300 per cent. more than if you renovate them. Can the rapporteur explain to me the link between the fact that the SF will achieve the 70-percent target and the fact that at the same time it helps to vote in favour of a package that is deeply climate-laden? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183840-2	Yes, it was a very emotional speech on my part, and it was because I have an enormous insight into the consequences these parallel societies have had for children, young people's future and the manifestation of women's lives. I've seen the consequences. I've seen women beaten to pieces and ended up in shelters. I've seen young people with dreams of turning into some sort of criminal career, I've seen how their dreams went down, so that's why I'm very, very upset. And when the questioner then asks a question about climate and climate impact, I would just like to say, as the Minister also said just now, that it is true that it will burden the climate it is clear that it will be renovations as well. Renovation will also burden the climate, and so many of these homes in these areas are not worth renovating because they are so worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183948	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406183949	Then I hope that the SF will shortly support the proposal that I and the Free Greens have made for outpatient treatment of victims of violence, in other words those women whom the rapporteur is talking about. We're about to deal with that, and I'm counting on the support of the SF. It is absolutely true that there will always be a climate load, whether you renovate or if you tear down, but as I just said, there is this life cycle analysis that points out that the climate load will be up to 300 per cent. It's bigger than if you renovated. So how does it relate to achieving the climate target? I fully agree that there is also a climate load in renovation, but 300 per cent. bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184037	I'm sure that's very true, but now I haven't set myself at 100%. into how much CO2 but I would say, as I also said just now, that there are some occasions that it doesn't pay to renovate because they are worn out and so old.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184101	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184103	Well, you know, in many housing associations, you're judging what kind of renovation you're supposed to do. After all, we have visited Solbakken in Odense, and there the residents have adopted a renovation plan. You know that there are some windows that need to be changed etc. And then they ended up on the hard ghetto list. I understand that SF has had some interest in whether it is now fair that they are on the hard ghetto list because an old statistic is used, and then in the old statistics there is a criminal too much. He's been helped to move, so he's not there anymore. Then why is it that you have to make this profound development plan/resolution plan, where you have to reduce by 60%? general family homes? I would really like to hear, when I hear that the SF supports the legislation before us, whether the SF really supports Solbakken's making such a development/resolution plan, which reduces by 60%. general family residences. If SF does not manage to get the Minister to think better, then it is the race that is running because they have come on the hard list, and I heard that the Minister will not change anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184212	That's right. As far as Solbakken is concerned, we have actually had the Minister in consultation, where we have also had problems with this, because if you are going to do things, they have to be done wisely. And Solbakken is in a very good and positive development. If you look at the latest figures for Solbakken, I'm not even sure they have a criminal too much. In fact, we have also asked the Minister about this, i.e. whether we should try to re-evaluate what sort of areas are on these lists and how they can get out of these lists again. Because there are some areas that will probably not be settled, but development I will never stand in the way of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184300	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184301	Okay. But if it is the case that the SF, together with other parties that are part of the parties behind this ghetto legislation, is not able to persuade the Minister and the other parties to change a comma in this legislation and in the way it is implemented, then we will find ourselves in a situation where Solbakken is forced to make such a plan, that is to say, where it is implemented, which the SF's Councilman in Odense does not want, and which I hear the rapporteur does not want either. That is where we stand if we do not grant exemptions; that is what is going to happen. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184335	Yes. And I repeat my answer: we have had the Minister in consultation, also in relation to being able to grant exemptions to some of these areas, and of course we will also be discussing this in the forthcoming negotiations. We have already mentioned this to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184354	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184357	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Social control is a challenge and a problem that we must address and on which we must act, and that must be resolved. I think the SF has a great deal of good in their social policy, but what I do not fully understand is why it is no longer related to one's housing policy. For many of the things the rapporteur said in his speech are important things that need to be responded to, but where in the amendments to the General Housing Act is there an initiative that solves that problem? I would like to hear the rapporteur's response to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184440	As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, it is not only social problems which are at stake in these vulnerable residential areas, but it is also very much the Middle East situation that the questioner will find. For example, do you take... and visiting a place like Vollsmose, where I often come, because my mother lives there, you can see that it is not quite part of Denmark anymore, and I do not want us to have divided areas. We've had a lot of well-intentioned projects and initiatives to sort out some of these challenges that are in these areas, and it hasn't helped much. We have to take this step, and it has also been shown that it actually helps. More young people have come into education, more have come into work. This is as positive as anything can be, and I cannot understand why this proposal cannot be supported. I just can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184548	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184549	But the homes have not been demolished yet, and so much has happened in the last 15 years or when the rapporteur lived in Vollsmose. We can look at it in terms of crime statistics, we can see it in relation to women, we can see it in relation to a great many of the different actions that are taking place, and I just do not understand why we are not putting in even harder, just as we have worked together in relation to a great many other actions, police conciliation and elsewhere, and go in and strengthen efforts towards social control. So, quite frankly, how can it help you to be moved away from the friends you know or your school or your job in question? It is, of course, a symptom treatment in some way, and we really need to go in and support and strengthen it where we know someone needs help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184639	Of course, it helps, in relation to negative social control, to live side by side with those who do not exercise negative social control and who have quite different values in which one can reflect oneself and that one does not live side by side with those who oppress and who have certain traditions, a certain culture which just keeps reproducing itself and passes on to future generations. Of course it's passed on. I cannot understand why, as a socialist, the fact that someone has strong role models does not actually influence their future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184720	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184721	Thank you very much, and thank you for a good speech. I fully agree with all the problems described by the rapporteur. I myself have worked a lot in Aarhus Vest and have also seen with my own eyes what happened there, and I have also seen that for too long you have done nothing, or that at least for too long you have done the wrong thing with short-term projects that pop up and then disappear again without leaving any trace. But the fact that we have been doing the wrong thing for so long does not, what can be said, give reason to do the wrong thing again, and I would like to hear: what does the rapporteur say that by 2020 the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights simply asks Denmark to stop plans to tear up housing in the so-called ghetto areas? They call the demolition plans a violation of international human rights, especially because the ghetto package is targeted at race, ethnic and religious minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184824	I mean, I think we're back in the '00s, where everything was defined and laid out as if it were discrimination, that it was racism. I do not think it is racism that we live side by side. On the contrary, I believe that it is discrimination, and it is racism, that we are just allowing people with the same problems, with the same challenges, to look after their own lives, without us, as societies, as welfare societies, going in and remedying it for these people and giving them better opportunities. It is actually racism if the rapporteur asks me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184902	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184903	Well, there is the UN at least disagreeing with the rapporteur. I agree that many of the projects that have been carried out have been too bad, but could it not have been possible, until people began to tear down people's homes and send thousands of people out of their homes with the consequences it has for their children, to have tried the better-looking work, the longer-term projects, the longer-term preventive efforts? That is being done, for example. Aarhus V and other places where you have long-term social work with families, which means that children go to school and people get to work. Couldn't you have done it before using the big hammer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406184946	Thank you. I am quite sure that a great many things have been done, including some of the things the questioner is proposing. It's not like it's everywhere you tear down homes. The Minister mentioned several places where housing is not torn down and let me give a concrete example. Now I've been working really, really much in these vulnerable residential areas, including Odense, and I know, for example. a single woman with three children. The elder was a boy, and she wanted so much to be allowed to live elsewhere so that her children could grow up with healthy values. Her son was only 18 or 19 years old when he got in to sit. It was certainly not the dream she had for her children, and she really wanted to live somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185031	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and can I ask the SF rapporteur to prepare for the next rapporteur? We're cleaning up so much here these days. Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185107	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting forward this important citizen's proposal, and also thank you for the dialogue we have had prior to the first reading of the proposal in this Chamber. The proposal calls for the abolition of the so-called ghetto law, which was adopted by a majority in the Danish Parliament in 2018, on the one hand, and the abolition of the three ghettoists, on the other hand, of exposed residential areas, ghetto areas and hard ghetto areas, and, on the other hand, just to reveal the conclusion to a start, the Radical Left can warmly support the citizens' proposal, and I would, of course, also like to put a few words on that. Since 2010, Denmark has had an official list of vulnerable residential areas. The list has been revised by some laps, and since 2018 the ghetto list has officially distinguished between vulnerable residential areas, ghetto areas and hard ghetto areas, and here you look at criteria relating to employment, crime, education and income, but you also look at the ethnicity of residents. Indeed, that is the crucial criterion for a residential area to be called a ghetto, and that means that people's non-western backgrounds are being pointed out as a problem, and we in the Radical Left do not want to be involved in that. We would not then, and neither will we today. The Ghetto package should, of course, deal with the problems that exist in the country's vulnerable residential areas, where among other things. unemployment all too often sets its feet for people to be able to live meaningful lives. But instead of addressing these important problems, the ghetto package ended up as rather ugly symbolic policy with hard rhetoric and rigid instruments, and it hurts more than it benefits. Let me just say that it is common sense that we settle together, whether the address is in Mjølnerparken or in Hellerup. That is how we get to know each other, that is how we develop a basic understanding and respect for each other across social divisions, across education levels where we are employed, and across income levels. It is also common sense to want to have a greater link with the labour market or lower crime, for the individual can actually change that in contrast to his ethnicity. Then it is also common sense to rebrand homes that have been voluntarily removed, for example. In the Radical Left, we also want mixed housing areas. But where common sense ends is when, as I have said, we make ethnicity a crucial criterion for a residential area to be called a ghetto. Common sense also ends when we tear down quite good homes, homes for which there is a waiting list. It is not climate-friendly; it is not sustainable either in one respect or another. So the ghetto package should basically never have been adopted. From the outset, it has been symbolic policy aimed at sending small signals rather than solving real problems. In the Radical Left, we would much rather develop than phase out. So the conclusion is exactly as I said in my introduction: the Radical Left supports the citizens' proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185445	There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185449	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I am just a little curious about what the rapporteur mentioned in his speech, which was also part of an earlier question, about these objective criteria. I would like to ask the rapporteur what the purpose of the objective criteria is. Because I also hear the rapporteur say that common sense stops where housing is being demolished. So the rapporteur would like to say a few words about how these criteria are to be drawn up and what the purpose of this should be, and probably what the consequences will be if the criteria are not met?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185526	I am not in favour of us having criteria, identifying residential areas and tearing them down. I hope that was quite clear. However, since there is no majority in favour of removing legislation, I would very much like to look into ways of improving it, for example. to remove ethnicity as a criterion or to look at some of the other criteria regarding employment and change it. However, when I am concerned about the criterion of employment, for example, it is because I and my party think it is good for people to be in employment, good for the individual, good for society, good for the children who grow up and have people as role models. You just don't get into employment by being moved out of your residential area. There are quite different employment-oriented efforts to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185614	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185615	I very much agree that you don't get a job magic, spell out that your home is being torn down. I'm supposed to understand that if there's one thing I can say... is a certain percentage of people who are unemployed in a given residential area, so will it be a special focus in relation to making some efforts and actions? Or what will the objective criteria be used for?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185642	I do not think I should be asked what the criteria are for, because we in the Radical Left voted against having these criteria and operating with these lists. But I'm kind of interested in people getting a job. So again, when, for example, I... is interested in the proportion of people who are in employment quite generally, if we look at Denmark as one big ghetto, it is because we need to know where we need to take action with targeted initiatives, with employment-oriented initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185711	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185714	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. In his speech, the rapporteur mentions that this agreement is symbolic policy and that it has damaged more than it has benefited. A few weeks ago we had a meeting in which the rapporteur was also present with the Ghetto representatives who could tell us about the good developments in these areas. These are some representatives who go in and look at how it is implemented, and the results and cooperation with the municipalities and housing organisations. So they are far and wide and also talk to the various residents' representatives. There's a really, really good development. The rapporteur himself was also present, and at that meeting I asked if these things could have been done without this parallel society agreement, and they said no to that. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur how the rapporteur can call it symbolic policy that has damaged when reality is different.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185821	Ghetto representatives are representatives of the government and not of the Radical Left. So that they have given Mrs Halime Oguz an answer does not mean that that is the same answer that Mrs Halime Oguz will hear from me. I feel that it is not the ghetto package that has led to healthy development in some residential areas. I also believe that I heard the Minister confirm that we cannot take credit for this because of the ghetto package. But what actually helps, and what you hear about out among residents, is that it is the housing social interventions that help. It's that it's pocket money jobs, extracurricular jobs. It is that among young people a co-ownership is being created for the individual residential areas. That's one of the things that helps. City sisters, mother-in-laws, there are many very good initiatives in progress. I would very much like to support them. By the way, we have done the same together in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185921	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185924	When the rapporteur says that some representatives have been appointed by the government, I just have to understand it correctly: is what they are presenting so misleading that it is a good development that is in these areas that more people have come into work, more young people have come into training and that it simply could not have been done if you did not have this agreement? Is that what they're saying, a little misleading?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406185956	I just have to point out to the rapporteur that it is precisely the government's specially appointed ghetto representatives so that it does not appear otherwise. It is not Parliament's, it is the government's appointed representatives. And no, I recognize those numbers. I recognise that there has been an improvement in employment, training and on all these parameters. But I am also just saying that this is not because there is a symbolist ghetto law present. This is because there is a massive effort out there in the residential areas, something that grows among the residents, such as town mothers, which we among other things. has helped to allocate funds to the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190034	Thank you. The next short remark is Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190041	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur on the Radical Left attaches great importance to ethnicity, and I think it is very important and fair that attention should be paid to that part. But I also find myself a little puzzled by the fact that it is being so sharped up, because one of the partial agreements which forms the basis of the parallel agreement on society is, of course, indirectly emphasising that part. It is about the distribution of children in day care institutions, and that agreement is, after all, part of the Radical Left. So what I would like to know is whether the Radical Left still supports that part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190121	Radical Left was at the time involved in two elements of a very divided process. The first thing that happened was an agreement on funding, which the Radical Left supported, and another partial agreement, which the Radical Left was part of, was for the distribution of children in day care institutions. Both are, in fact, still in our backs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190150	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190152	I am very pleased to hear that, because in this way the Radical Left rapporteur recognizes that ethnicity and, at least, the fact that you come from different countries and you can have parents who may not be able to properly Danish can have meaning. Therefore, sometimes it can also be a parameter in making a division that can help to raise children overall to a better future. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190222	There is just a contradiction, or at least you can't equate having a non-western background and then having a bad Danish. I hope I am an example of that. So that's two different things. It is clear that children develop in conjunction with the other children who surround them, and then there may be many with a bad language, but having a bad language is something other than having a different ethnicity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190253	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is clear, and that is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190317	The Enhedslisten supports the citizens' proposal to abolish the ghetto law. It will stop demolitions, stop the sale of general homes, and it will abolish the three different types of ghettoists. The Enhedslisten fully supports the citizens' proposal to roll back that legislation. I would like to thank the initiators of the citizens' proposal and the 55 000 people who signed it. These are general residential areas, people's homes, people's security in everyday life. This concerns, among other things: on 318 families in Bispehaven, Aarhus, who are in the precarious situation created by the political majority. Families are forced to move, even if the department has not been sufficiently involved in the decision. We're approx. One million people living in the 660,000 ordinary homes. Demolition, sale of homes, conversion of homes and closer construction create an insecurity locally for many thousands of people throughout the country. Somebody's thinking, what's the next area? There was an insecurity until December 1, not because of Christmas, but because of the ghettoists. In Skovgårdsparken the department made a great effort: Moving aid to the unemployed. A controversial approach that succeeded, so Skovgårdsparken was not labeled as a hard ghetto with demands for a settlement plan for good general family homes. There has been little hope that a new government, a new minister would adjust on the ghetto laws, adjust a little on the policy of the Liberal Alliance. The sunbaken in Odense could be helped with political will. Solbakken has given removal aid to criminals, but a criminal who had moved spoke to in the ghetto statistics, which are based on old numbers. So a criminal too much on the ghetto list meant that the area came on the hard ghetto list and now has to wind up 60%. of the general family housing. Ghetto rules have repeatedly been changed politically, it can happen again. Only two areas are above 2.7%. criminals, which were the limit when the majority adopted the ghetto law in 2010. The goalposts are constantly being moved to make residents losers in a political competition to be hardest on certain residential areas. However, instead of sensible relaxations, the government recently came up with a draft which reduces the possibility that people with a non-Western background or their descendants and the unemployed cannot move into 58 residential areas, where there are over hundreds of thousands of people in total. These are areas where there are over 30%. with so-called non-Western background. Why does the government want to increase discrimination against non-Western residents? If the government believes that there are too many unemployed, then help the residents with offers of work or training. Denmark has received criticism from the UN that the development plans for Mjølnerparken must be suspended as long as legal proceedings are ongoing. The government has rejected that. There are several different trials and I hope that residents win so that plans can be rolled back. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior concluded in a report from 2019 that there are more than 76,000 people living in parallel societies in Denmark. This is, in fact, the report that was devoted to a ghetto agreement. I find it disappointing that people have not wanted to listen to, for example. Professor Hans Changer Andersen, who has repeatedly pointed out that there is no parallel society in Denmark in relation to the criteria and indicators used in the report. And then the government will now go one step further. Yes, we do not like the word ghetto, but parallel societies instead, and that is why we are moving on with the current criteria for the so-called hard ghettos in the effort we are going to make towards parallel societies. General housing is in the process of implementing a climate action. That makes sense. But if you look at what happens when you tear down homes, the architectural firm Water Art has rained on it, and it really is a bad case in terms of climate, a bad solution to tear down homes. The Enhedslisten believes that we should increase the number of general housing significantly. This will ensure less speculation in housing and will make it easier to change housing, create greater flexibility when you need housing of different sizes in life or move around the country. The idea is that in the ten municipalities with the greatest number of general housing, there are no residential areas in the so-called ghettoists. So it is not the number of general housing that is the problem, but the discriminatory policy of the majority and the decisions that have been taken. The Enhedslisten supports the citizens' proposal to repeal the law on the demolition and sale of general housing and the abolition of so-called ghettoists. It can eliminate the discrimination which the inhabitants of general housing are quite unfairly exposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190824	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Heidi Bank, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190829	Thank you. As I hear the rapporteur's speech and now the rapporteur has to correct me, we have to recognise, according to the rapporteur, that there are no parallel societies in Denmark. And since the rapporteur is of the opinion, I would like to ask, first of all, why is it that we have statistics that are completely in relation to women in women's crisis centres, in other words where women with a non-Western background are over-represented? Why is it that men with a non-Western background are over-represented in rape statistics? Well, how can it be if there are no parallel societies in Denmark at all? The second thing I want to hear is this: now that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten thinks that we should just let go, for example, he thinks that it is reasonable that the youth housing next to Bispehaven, where everything is apparently delightful and old-fashioned, should be wrapped in barbed wire, otherwise everything will be stolen from that property? Is that okay? It is young students who live behind barbed wire, because the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten believes that there are no problems in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406190938	Well then, we have come to where I might be able to get an answer to what I asked twice to the rapporteur, namely whether the Forest Farm Park in Aarhus is a parallel society, is a ghetto. Because I asked questions about that twice, and I didn't get an answer to that. So I guess I'd expect to be able to get an answer to that right now. When I refer to the fact that there are no parallel societies in Denmark, it is of course Hans Changer Andersen who has come to the conclusion and has also pointed out that it is quite unreasonable that, if there is one criminal member of a family, one attempts to define it as if the whole family is part of a parallel society. I think that's pretty crazy. Now the Left is sometimes in favour of legal certainty; they do not do that in this residential area, but it would otherwise be something you would criticise if some people with a slightly paler skin were subjected to discriminatory legislation. It is quite clear that there are different standards in Denmark and that you can find statistics that point out something; that is correct. And, of course, we must combat this, but it is not the same as adopting this kind of legislation. I mean, is Sundparken in Horsens a parallel society? Why do they have to make a settlement plan? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191049	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191051	There are different standards, says the rapporteur. I mean, it's true, every time Enhedslisten says in this area, that I don't hear a single answer about how you can really help these women and these young girls. I just hear that a solution must of course be found, as the rapporteur has just said. But what kind of answers will the rapporteur give to the women and girls affected in these areas? This also applies to young boys, who also need to have a chance for the future and where this gender equality matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191123	I would very much like to help young people who grow up in areas where they are under unreasonable pressure from standards other than those they do not want to take. That is also why the housing social effort is immensely important, and the Left has helped to reduce the amount of this type of effort. Then I still haven't received an answer as to whether the forest park in the left optics is considered a parallel society. I have to say that this is obviously a toxic issue for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191152	The next brief remark is to Mrs Halime Oguz, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191156	I note that the rapporteur talks a lot about not tearing down housing and that that is also one of the reasons why you are not included in this agreement. Then that's why I'm surprised, because I've found an article from 2018 that says: "Odense will close down at least 1000 public dwellings." This means that they are tearing down a thousand common homes in Vollsmose, and Enhedslisten is in that agreement. I don't quite understand this double bookkeeping. Could the rapporteur wisely make me wonder why it is so different?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191236	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191238	The problem with this legislation is that it has this goal of reducing the number of general family homes by 60%, and then it is sketched out that it can be done by selling housing or tearing them down, converting or condensing. If it is the case that the residents have come to the conclusion that some of the housing stock is not good enough to be renovated and that the departmental board has arrived at a meeting to tear something down, Enhedslisten fully accepts that solution. I have been out visiting settlements around the country and I fully understand that there has been something that should be demolished. I'm a carpenter myself, and I know a building doesn't last forever. That is the case, but there is also legislation that is quite foolish, for example. This whole thing about the building being built on the same foundation, and you should change that. So it's not a matter of us never accepting anything being torn down. It's not like that, but with the way the legislation here is knitted together, that's where you end up in some situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191340	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191341	Thank you for your answer. I am also a little curious to get an answer to another question, so I move on to it. The rapporteur is talking about these social housing interventions before this parallel society package has worked a lot, also on negative social control. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has any figures on how much this negative social control and this crime has fallen on the basis of these social efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191421	It's good to be curious. I've also been wondering for a long time how the SF can be part of this ghetto deal. In terms of housing social work and in terms of what works, experience has been to a large extent to help young people who grow up in these residential areas with a pocket money job so that they get a job where they have an income, so it's really bouncing off. I went to the Mjølner Park once. There the dealers couldn't find kids to sell weed on the street. They had to import some from Rødovre to have enough to sell hash on the street, because those in Mjølnerparken during that period did not want that job because they had a pocket money job that gave pretty much the same, and then they did not end up in prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191502	Then I can see that there is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten, to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Søren Egge Rasmussen It's exciting) Here you go
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191511	Thank you. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that the Enhedslisten in Odense has not voted in favour of the demolition of housing and that the Enhedslisten in Odense is not in the agreement on the Vollsmose Plan. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191526	It sounds as if Enhedslisten's MP elected in Odense has more control over this kind of thing, so I am sure that what Victoria Velasquez refers to is that Enhedslisten is not included in those agreements is quite correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191541	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. And thank you for getting ready for the next rapporteur, who is standing by. That is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191603	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. I'll be very brief. After all, the proposal has two elements, on the one hand, an end to demolition and, on the other hand, the abolition of lists. It is no wonder that both elements can cause frustration and debate, just as it causes frustration and debate to see parallel societies grow large and powerful. This is a development that no one was able to slow down in the past. We did something about that with the ghetto plan in 2018. That was good, and it was absolutely necessary. Of course, there is no point in us starting to change the agreement and the thinking behind it before we really get started. We need a fight with parallel societies with, among other things. high crime and resulting in insecurity. We need to use untraditional tools, and we need to dare to do away with the ghettos. It's been holding on hard, and there's no time to back it up. With the ghetto plan, we have acted and taken responsibility economically and culturally for now and for future generations. I recognise the criticism and would really like to see us, for example. could avoid the demolitions. But the advantages overshadow the disadvantages, at least if you have the future generations in sight, and Conservatives always do. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191724	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191730	I quite agree that we should not accept such a high level of crime, and then it is exciting to see the figures for the various areas. There are, among other things: The health park in Horsens, which is probably fairly close to the rapporteur's place of residence, without it being a significant criterion but nevertheless. Here they are bouncing out with a very low crime rate. If you visit the area, you will think that they might need some more gardeners, because they could make the area a little more exciting. But that's kind of the most negative thing I can say. So it is true that there are many unemployed people living there, but I think that, in relation to these ghetto criteria, we are being punished very hard on the subject of employment, because we are being punished if people have only attended primary school. Many people in Sundparken only have that. Then there is the risk that they have a low-paid job, and it looked like boning to compare with the average income held up to the whole region, where there may be corners of the region that have a worse income than those living in the central parts of Aarhus. And that also goes on to say that there may be some who are outside the labour market during periods. So we actually have three criteria relating to employment. Does the rapporteur not see that perhaps some rather strange criteria have been chosen to make these ghettoists?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191846	No, I just can't. In fact, I think it is very good that we have different criteria that help to ensure something in terms of how we can actually manage parallel societies. That is why I think it is important that we now see the effects of this before we may start to back up and before we start to change some things. And there will always be some challenges when it becomes as square as it is here. Of course, there will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191908	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191911	You know, that squareness, you get to be one of those things. affected compared to if you now have a housing association close to Copenhagen and you have to be kept up against an average income for the Capital Region. Because you count all the rich in an average income. Then perhaps there are some without education who have some low-paid jobs, and then they can be affected in relation to the ghettoists just because you are compared to North Zealand. Does the rapporteur not see that this is quite unreasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191936	No, I cannot, because what is the problem is that no matter what criteria we put in here, the rapporteur, because the rapporteur is against us having a fight with the ghettos, will, of course, help to find some different gaps which we will unfortunately have to discuss again. That is why I think it is actually very good that we have exactly the criteria that we have and which have been agreed in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406191957	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of rapporteurs is on the verge of leaping, and that is the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406192016	Thank you. I just don't like those expressions of ghettoists and ghetto packages and everything else. To tell you the truth, I don't believe them. I just don't. I don't believe it's going to solve anything. Then you take action where you punish more severely, if you are in a certain geographical area, then you force children in the crèche, so you bus students out there, and then there are suggestions that someone should not come out at all after 11:00. 8:00. Oh, come on. Well, listen, you've been doing these things since the first ghetto pack came. When was that? It was in 1993 with Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, wasn't it? Then something came up with Anders Fogh Rasmussen in 2004, and then something came up with Lars Løkke Rasmussen in 2010. If they worked, it was only necessary to make one. But again, we have the latest package and the politicians saying that you'll see. You even give them such titles: Compete with the ghettos, not more parallel societies. This has been done in the last 30 years. I cannot understand why it is not even embarrassing to keep giving them the headlines, because that is nowhere near being what you do with these things. But no, we're going for another ride. And you can easily find out a few figures and say that now you just have to see and that now it is moving, and then completely ignore the basic macroeconomic approaches that have been at the same time, in those situations. We do not believe in it in New Citizens, nor do we believe that the stigmatisation that comes with these ghetto packages solves anything. I just think that you talk down to the citizens by putting it on the same footing and saying that only certain people can move into these areas and that if you are on public transfer income, you can't live in this area. What's this? What kind of publicity is it for citizens to deprive them of absolutely fundamental rights for them to settle where they want to? We simply do not like that. Therefore, there are elements in this citizens' proposal that we think are quite, quite reasonable. If we cannot then vote in favour of the citizens' proposal as it stands, it is because at the same time there is a desire for a ban on selling general housing, and we do not share that. In fact, we believe that it is being claimed that these large general housing areas, which are being pulled out, solve these problems, but I do not think there is any evidence whatsoever that they do either. It's being mailed loose. Well, try to think how many billions we have spent on integration projects one way or another that have not solved it. Imagine if we in here and if we in these educational institutions that we have out there, for example. Folkeskole, had looked at these people in a different way and hadn't done it all the time with their hairs and said: yes, yes, it's okay. And: It's good you've just come to school; you don't have to do homework, it's just good you're here. But for 30 years, you haven't made proper demands on these young people, and what do you expect to get out of it? They have parents who are not in the labour market and who do not require them either, and then we have God help me a primary school that does not require them either, and what do we expect to happen? There are, of course, some who are doing well; good for that. But it is practically quite pathetic to see how one then disapproves and disclaims all the responsibility in this Parliament for the things one could actually have changed over all those years and says: well, ho, now we have a problem. We've had that for 30 years, but we still haven't changed it. We simply do not believe in another ghetto package, and as we usually say over in Jutland, the pig does not get heavier by being weighed, nor does it in this area. That doesn't change by calling it one or calling it the other. Real changes need to be made, and we do not believe in that being another name, these ghettoists. Those were supposed to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406192433	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for getting ready for the next rapporteur, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406192450	This parallel society package actually works. There won't be ghettos left in Denmark in 2030 because of this parallel society package, so you can stand up here and unfold rhetorically that there have been a number of packages in the past that haven't worked, and then claim that this one won't work either, but it does, and if you'd gotten into the area, you'd know that this one works. It does not solve all the problems in the world, but it solves the problems associated with the very high concentration of people with certain social problems, which are also linked to their ethnicity as non-Danish, living in certain areas, and their problems that go into difficulties and reinforce each other, because there is no mixed housing mix because there is simply too uniform a housing base. That is the problem in the general housing areas we are talking about here, which we call hard ghettos and ghettos, namely that the housing mix is too similar. There are thousands of homes, all of which are non-profit housing, i.e.: with grants from both the municipality and the State, which are family homes and which are built in a particular type of building, and the uniform housing composition has led to a uniform housing composition. I have no objection to neighbours being alike, but if what they are similar to each other is a number of problematic cultural features, then that is a problem. It is no problem that people who can figure out how to behave, do well in Danish society, associate with other people, have a job, etc., are similar and live close to each other, but if you have certain social problems and if the neighbour has the same social problems, if the neighbor has the same social problems, if the neighbor has the same social problems, and if the neighbor has the same social problems, then the problems can be exacerbated by their concentration in the residential areas. That is why, in the then government, we decided that we would see whether there was support in the Folketing for us to do something about what was actually batting. Fortunately, we had a good and constructive negotiation process with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Government of the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance. There we came up with this broad agreement, which will lead to that instead of having a uniform type of housing in these residential areas, where there are up to 9,000 people living in the same type of housing. Some will be sold to become cohabitants and rentals instead; others will be rebranded so that instead of being family homes they will become elderly homes or youth homes; some will be demolished; others will use the space left over on the land itself to build new homes, so that there will also be new types of residents. We see this especially in Tingbjerg, where the large grasslands are used to build a different type of housing for another type of residents. In this way, we will arrive at a situation in which children no longer grow up with a neighbour, superintendent, suburb and neighbor, which matches them completely, and where the same thing is true in the second and third rise, but that they are different people. When the child of the unemployed immigrant can play on the playground with a child of a Dane who is in work, it can see that there is another way to live in this society than the way that is linked to being an immigrant in Denmark whose parents are not at work, but that one can actually live in the way that the Danish parents who are in work and their children live on. It is not the case that the problem that your parents are not in work disappears in themselves because of this, but it helps to give you a better impression as a child that there is another way of life, and it also helps parents to see that there are other ways of life. I do not actually blame the immigrants who came here to Denmark and were placed in social residential areas where they were neighbours of Danes with social problems, that they got the impression that the Danes were some strange ones who drank too much and did other strange things, because such were their neighbours then. So now they get some neighbors who are more representative of Normaldanmark, so they can see that so are Danes. That is why we will not be voting in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406193001	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406193007	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. It is not so often that I draw out the CEPOS, but I think that, since it is the Liberal Alliance, one can, of course, make an exception. And they have, of course, produced a report which I am sure the rapporteur is well aware of, where they go in and say that there is no scientific evidence to say that it is the ghetto that is creating higher crime, poorer grades or poorer links with the labour market quote end. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur, and now the rapporteur is also a former minister, so I would like to take the liberty of saying that the rapporteur cannot confirm that everyone can live in general housing in Denmark and that there is no upper limit in relation to income, as we see in other countries, for example. social housing, and whether the Minister cannot also confirm that in the ten municipalities which actually have the most general housing areas, not one of the residential areas is on one of the lists. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406193113	Yes, it will be the rapporteur, and not the Minister, although the rapporteur is a former minister. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406193119	Yeah, I'm sure it's true I don't have the relevant numbers up here, but I don't know what difference it makes. What difference does what Mrs Victoria Velasquez says make to Vollsmose; what difference does what Mrs Victoria Velasquez says make to the Gellerup Park; what difference does what Mrs Victoria Velasquez says make to the Mjølner Park? Are the problems disappearing there because there are some municipalities where there are many non-profit housing which, according to Mrs Velasquez, do not have problems of this kind? They don't. We are all forced, that is, all of us who relate to reality and do not relate to what the Communist Manifesto says about what we do with these problems in Vollsmose, as there is in Gellerupparken, and as there is in Mjølnerparken. I know that Enhedslisten would prefer not to deal with it, that Enhedslisten would like to pretend that there are no problems, and just to say: Karl Marx didn't write anything about this, so what are we going to do about it? Well, it doesn't matter that Karl Marx didn't write anything about this. We're still going to have to do something about the specific problems that are out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406193221	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406193224	So it was an automatic reaction, I think. Now I even tried to offer up dance by referring to the CEPOS, and then there just came such a record player that sounds a little like it's gone off. And I think that is really a pity, because I think that you could be inspired by seeing the things that work, both in the housing areas concerned, the training is buzzing up, the crime is crashing down but also in all the other residential areas, for example. In the ten municipalities, which are the most common; what are the things that work? Well, then I'll ask another question, and then I hope I get an answer to what I'm actually asking. I agree that the Liberal Alliance would like to privatise and all that, but is it not reasonably unfair that the money that the tenants have paid for, for example, should go to? renovations, then go to tear down the homes? Does the Minister not think, no, sorry, it is not even because it is a wish that the rapporteur did not think it was a bit of a hoax? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406193317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406193318	The country-building fund's money comes from the fact that in their first many years and decades the general housing organizations receive some major subsidies to repay the loan they take back. When they have finished paying back the loan, they pay in return some money into the Landsbygningsfonden, so it is like such a refund of the many establishment grants that have been given out there. But when it comes to saying that, because you repay the subsidies you have received, it is suddenly your own money that you repay, I would say: no, it is the contract that has been concluded when you decided that you would build a non-profit housing association, namely that you would have to pay back some of the money. And it's not your own; it's the Folketing's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406193405	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406193420	Thank you, President. Nearly 56 000 citizens have asked us to take a position on this citizens' proposal to repeal the law on the demolition and sale of general housing and to abolish the so-called ghettoists. The debate got off to a rather rough start when the Minister said that if this was adopted, it was the most curious thing he had ever been able to adopt here in the Folketing. I would now like to say that it is a little out of proportion. We have seen many strange things adopted. I think the jewellery law was more curious, that is to say, that refugees' jewelry is confiscated at the border if they are worth more than 10,000 kroner. Now it is also the case that all the citizens who have made this proposal all alone, among others. In October 2020, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has asked Denmark to stop plans to tear apart housing into the so-called ghetto areas of demolitions, which means that thousands of people have to find a new home. They call the demolition plans a violation of international human rights, especially because the ghetto package is targeted at specific races and ethnic and religious minorities. That is why, according to the United Nations High Commissioner, it will constitute a clear violation of the right to equality before the law and equal treatment of the courts, because the ghetto package has not been tried by the courts. We must listen to that appeal. It cannot be right that in Denmark, which is otherwise a model of freedom and equality and human rights, we should not put an end to the discrimination that the ghetto law entails. For example: is the definition of ghettos directly discriminatory. The official definition is based on the fact that if a residential area meets two out of four criteria relating, inter alia, to: education level, income and crime, consists of a percentage overweight of non-western immigrants, then it is a ghetto. Using the term 'non-Western' is stigmatizing, and it risks intensifying and anchoring xenophobia and racial discrimination in Denmark. In the alternative, we cannot accept that we base our legislation on discrimination, discrimination and stigmatisation. Therefore, we agree with the many Danes who have signed this citizens' proposal to repeal the legislation, which is used to force general housing associations for the demolition and sale of general housing, and to abolish the lists for vulnerable residential areas, ghetto areas and hard ghetto areas. For more than 15 years, Sociologist Aydin Soei has been dealing with Denmark's vulnerable residential areas. He criticises the ghetto list for giving a realistic picture of the development of residential areas and fears that the law is doing more harm than good. Among other things: In an interview with Amnesty International, he mentions that the ghetto law affects thousands of families who do not violate the law, and at worst it may result in a lot of residents being confirmed that they are not seen as citizens but as opponents. The Ghetto Act is extremely degrading and classifies some as second-class citizens who do not have the same rights as others. He also mentions that the probability of taking an education and getting a job, if you have an educational foreign family background, is actually greater in these areas than anywhere else in the country. It is because, according to him, it is areas where the state is most present and where there are pocket money projects and educational guidance and homework services, etc., so there is in fact the greatest.It is strange that positive developments such as this will be opposed and laws adopted which lead to a lot of people losing their homes. When vulnerable families are forcibly removed, their networks are also removed. We run the risk that families will end up in social isolation and that there is no one to help raise the young people as we see them today. The Ghetto Act is stigmatizing and discriminatory and stamps general residential areas as ghettos. Nearly 56 000 citizens have signed a citizens' proposal that will abolish ghettoists and repeal the law on the demolition of general housing. It is a strong appeal to the Folketing. Let us listen to the citizens of the country and listen to the UN experts and listen to our common sense, who say that we can go much, much further with long-term preventive, outreach work, helping families out of their problems instead of chasing them from house to home. So let us create an inclusive society where there is room for everyone by abolishing the ghettoists and putting an end to the demolition of general housing. The alternative is in favour of the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406193855	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There is a question for the rapporteur, and it is from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406193902	Thank you. It was just because, with the former rapporteur, there was a little impression that there had been a lot of public subsidies, and then all this with the Landsbydfonden. And then I just think that what is called the State's share in the new building is paid by the Landsbygningsfonden. And basic capital, which is from the municipalities, is a loan. Well, many of the loans are so interest-free and you get paid over time. But when the loans are paid out, it is the case that the tenants over their rent pay to the Landsbygningsfonden, so I don't really think we got this addressed by paying some money to the Landsbygningfonden, which has to go for renovation and to make the homes more climate-proof and low climate improvements. That is why I would like to hear the alternative: that is, would it not be most reasonable that the money that people have actually paid in the belief that where they live, it actually went to it, rather than that they could risk paying for their own housing to be demolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194004	I will be able to reply very briefly to that: yes, quite clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194007	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194010	It's fine. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194013	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and thank you for preparing the platform. Well, then, sir. Sikandar Siddique asked to speak as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194036	Thank you to Ibrahim El-Hassan and all the promoters of the proposal. Thank you to all those who have signed the proposal. Today is a crucial day. It could be a historic day. It may be a day when the parties of the Folketing opt out of discrimination and choose diversity. It may be a day when we show that we believe in the constitution and basic human rights. It can be a day when we guarantee equal rights and equal opportunities for everyone, no matter where you live or where you come from. Or it may be another wasted day when we continue to let state racist rule as it was adopted by the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. That is what this citizens' proposal is all about: that we can recreate a Denmark without state racism. And whether or not we want to re-establish a Parliament in which the majority of the parties do not support discriminatory policy. That is what is at stake today. I do not believe that the Danes out there support discriminatory politics such as the ghetto package. I just don't want to believe it. Because the Danes are not a racist people. However, there is much evidence that a large majority of parliament's politicians are looking at discriminatory legislation. For those of you sitting in this room, there's no excuse. You passed the law yourself. You've read the hearing answers yourself. You have been warned and criticised by everything that can creep and go, from the most supranational bodies like the UN to the most local resident democracy. No one is in any doubt that the ghetto park with its ethnicity criterion is vertically discriminatory; that it is quite disguised racism. When each voted in favour of the ghetto package, your party wrote into the history of state racistism, into a world where rights apply only to some where one's skin color and origin dictate one's possibilities. Where one's skin color and origin dictates whether one's apartment should be torn down or not. But posterity will judge you hard, friends, if you do not vote for this citizens' proposal, if you do not stop the demolitions and forced relocations. I dare guarantee that if as much as an editor-in-chief or an influencer or a cultural-radical well connected person or a highly placed djøf'er were in the process of forced displacement, the outcry would be quite different. But it's not. It's overdanmark who's stepping on the sub-dairy. It is the surplus parents who overlook the fact that they vote for a party which conducts a discriminatory policy as long as they get minimum nominations for their own children in their own kindergartens. It's an abuse in slow motion, and nobody wants to hear the crying. But that does not have to be the case, my fellow Members. For an assault on an innocent family is an assault on everyone's families. A state-sanctioned assault is an assault too much. The Ghetto package is discriminatory policy, it is climate-damaging policy. The Ghetto package has caused socialists to vote like those on the right, yes, I am thinking of the SF. The Ghetto package has caused liberals to drop the basic freedoms, yes, I am thinking of you in the Liberal Alliance. And the ghetto package has led the once-solid party to pursue discriminatory policies, yes, I am thinking of you in the Social Democratic Party. The Ghetto package does not belong in Denmark. It doesn't belong anywhere. Free Greens will fight for a diverse Denmark where there is room for everyone and where equal rights regardless of gender, ethnicity, skin color, sexuality and disability are a basic conditions that will never be moved by. Of course, the Green Group will vote in favour of this citizens' proposal, so thank you very much to all the promoters, and thank you very much to all of you who have signed the citizens' proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194505	Now I did not interrupt the speech, but I would like to remind the honourable Member, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique says that using direct indictment does not leave the Parliament's platform. Saying "I" to your colleagues is also directly indictment, even if it is in the majority. It was the Danish teacher who came out here. It is noted). There are a few brief comments to the honourable Member and the first is from Mrs Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194532	Thank you. I would just like to confirm to the rapporteur that, as a member of the Folketing, I am really, really proud that SF is part of this agreement, which is aimed at creating a larger community, giving equal opportunities to all, regardless of their background. Because right now, the reality is that those who grow up in these vulnerable residential areas, in which the rapporteur so much wants them to remain, do not actually have the same opportunities. And is it not true that the Free Greens, like the New Citizens' Party, are in fact in favour of a policy of isolating people with a different ethnic background from the rest of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194621	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194623	It may well be that Mrs Halime Oguz is a proud member of parliament and is proud to have voted in favour of the agreement. I doubt Aksel Larsen would be proud that SF is voting for this ghetto package. I can only say that throughout the debate I have tried to ask the parties whether they think it is a discriminatory policy when, on the basis of an ethnicity criterion, one can be classified as a ghetto and that, if it is not there, one cannot be classified as a ghetto. Not one party has dared stand by what one party has said plainly: yes, it is absolutely true that if you live in an area where everyone is criminal, everyone is unemployed and the level of education is low, then if the ethnicity criterion is not met, you cannot be classified as a ghetto. Not one party has stood by what not one party has said: that is absolutely right, Sikandar, but because it is so important to us, we do it anyway. So I just want to encourage the SF and other parties to stand by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194734	Here you go, Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194736	[Sound emission]... make the rapporteur speak a little more truthful about this parallel society package, because it is simply not true what the rapporteur is throwing out. Another thing I would also like to say is that I believe that Aksel Larsen would have been right, very proud that we are in a deal where we really, really want to make the difference between poor and rich less. The cultural challenges and social challenges and the fact that we all share in solving these challenges together are, in fact, also at the heart of our welfare societies. So I believe Aksel Larsen would have been proud that the SF is today part of a solidarity agreement, because it is about solidarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194825	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194827	Now I didn't catch the question. That was more of a comment on my answer. But I still think it is going a little too far to say that I should be telling the truth about the proposal. Now I noticed that Mrs Halime Oguz said from the platform that these areas are no longer part of Denmark. I have to say that this is going a little too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194853	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194858	I noticed that Mr. Sikandar Siddique said in his concluding remark that the Greens are very concerned that one should be treated equally regardless of one's sexuality. How many homosexuals live openly about it, according to Mr. Sikandar Siddique's view in Vollsmose?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194923	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194925	Since it has nothing to do with the proposal we are going to be dealing with here, I have to admit that I have not examined it and have no figures on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194934	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406194936	I would guess that there are no homosexuals in Vollsmose who live openly about it, and that is one of the problems. There is a concentration of problems in these areas, and one of the problems is, for example, that attitudes about banning homosexuality are very widespread in these areas. I'd also be able to ask you a question about how many Jews, sir. Sikandar Siddique thinks that lives in Vollsmose. And if a Jew decided to move to Vollsmose, how does Mr. Sikandar Siddique saw it would happen to this Jew? Sir. Sikandar Siddique doesn't care that we have areas in Denmark where, for example, there are areas in Denmark. cannot live homosexuals, nor can there live Jews, because there is a concentration of problems with people who believe that such things should be banned in Denmark. That's what Mr. Sikandar Siddique doesn't say anything about it. Despite the fact that Mr. Sikandar Siddique says that this is very important for the Free Greens, Mr. Sikandar Siddique does not say that we have large residential areas in Denmark where it is not possible to live in the way Mr. Sikandar Siddique claims he cares.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195037	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195038	I don't know how it is with Vollsmose, but I can tell you that where I originally come from, Blågårds Plads, there is a local guy who has been an active part of society. He has Jewish background. His name is Allan. He does business, has been doing it for many years, down in Blågårdsgade and is part of the community. I can tell you that our head of communication in the Free Greens is gay. He also lives down at Blågårds Plads quite openly about it. He doesn't have a problem with it either. I don't have the exact data. I think the rapporteur is well aware of this too. We must combat extreme attitudes, but then I just come back to the question that I asked over and over again: where in the ghetto law are there measures that will fight homophobia?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195126	The President has been standing up for some time. Despite low altitudes, I think it is clear that I am standing up because the speaking time has passed. The next brief comment on Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195139	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that more and more people are receiving training and I think we agree that it is important that people receive education. It ensures a good start for the rest of your life. This makes you have a knowledge so that you can participate as an active citizen and a lot of other things. So it's a really, really good thing. This is particularly true of women. Can the rapporteur confirm that if the training criteria actually spoke to them under 30, then there would be a great many of the lists where it would look positive? Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195219	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195220	I can fully confirm that. Crime is also decreasing and education levels are on the way up. In fact, minority women storm so much in higher education that they have overtaken ethnic Danish women. So I can fully confirm that. That is also why, on 15 April, we in the Free Greens are now proposing to anonymise applications so that we can have these women who are going to send 50-60 per cent. More applications to be considered, enter the labour market so that they can become self-employed so that they can earn money so that they can create good lives for their children and family. So I can confirm the picture that the rapporteur is drawing up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195306	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195308	Thank you. But I'm also thinking that this anonymous application can be a small part of it. Unfortunately, it can't be left alone. One of the things that can worry me when we look at different places is that we can see that there are some measures that work very well and now both the rapporteur and I mentioned this with women, but very many places do not actually have any initiatives to strengthen, for example. training for men over 18 years of age. Does the rapporteur not think that there is simply a place where we do not strengthen our efforts well enough and do not actually go in and do what may be necessary? Or what does the rapporteur think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195345	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195348	I think that preventive work has been downgraded in everything, far too long, and we could do all sorts of things. I dare not think about how many resources and how good the results could be if all this attention was spent, all this money and all the energy spent on the ghetto package, and channeled it over to preventive interventions, where you just asked the residents out there who know what works. Just focusing on research-based solutions such as neighborhood mothers, neighborhood sisters, pocket money projects and all sorts of other housing social interventions out there would do wonders, just wonders.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195424	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. There are no more brief comments. And thank you for also getting the platform ready for the next speaker. However, as no one else has asked to speak on this point, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195447	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195516	Thank you for this motion for a resolution, which requires the government to ensure that municipalities can rent municipal-owned settlement houses for market rent on fixed-term leases to potential settlers who want to try out island life. The proposal arises from the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior stated back in December that the scheme practised by the municipality of Ærø with their settlement house was not legal. It is my understanding that the settlement house on Ærø has been a success, and I believe that we should support those actions that have proven good effects in those areas where there is a need to work actively to attract new settlers. That is why I also immediately announced that municipalities must have the appropriate tools at their disposal, which will make a difference in terms of ensuring living and thriving communities also in sparsely populated areas. My ministry therefore set in motion work to strengthen the ability of municipalities to attract newcomers. The work involves exploring ways of counteracting depopulation within the existing rules, but also looking at whether there is a need, for example, to: a separate legal basis for transfer homes. As part of the work, my ministry has held a meeting with the municipality of Ærø in February, and on 3 May I will visit the island myself to learn more about their challenges and about the actions they are experiencing. The Ministry will involve other relevant municipalities and organisations, and the work will result in a collection of best practice and probably also an attitude on how a rule change can be designed most appropriately. For the above reasons, I can certainly agree with the intention behind the motion for a resolution. However, I will allow my ministry to complete the work that has already been started and not to shape the outcome in concrete terms in advance. The crucial thing must be that the municipalities have both knowledge of effective tools already in the toolbox, but of course also that the toolbox contains the right elements. If we are to ensure a legal basis in the legislation, I will certainly not reject the fact that this could be done appropriately in the coming parliamentary year. Although the government supports the intention behind the proposal, for the above reasons I cannot support the resolution in any concrete way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195735	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister. This is Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195745	The Minister thinks this is a good proposal, but why can the Minister not say clearly: I think there should be a legal basis? Why do a lot of studies have to be done? Isn't it really just about saying that we think there should be a legal basis and then make that work happen? So my question is actually: why does the Minister not just say clearly: I want a legal basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195817	I think I said the same thing, but of course I may not have been clear enough. I want a legal basis for you to make a house like what you haven't been allowed to do on Ærø, but I just want to look at how it can be designed in the best way. After all, it is always very good to prepare for such a change of law before you really just get to grips with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195844	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195847	I think that is actually a good thing, because I do not think I heard that in the Minister's first reply. But then I do not think the Minister would mind adopting the proposal that lies here. What we are actually saying is not what exactly it should look like, but just that there should be a legal basis, and we are, in fact, open to all the considerations that may be, for example. That a municipality that goes into this, of course, shouldn't be able to make money on it and all these things. So we really think we've taken all the precautions. So I actually think immediately that the Minister cannot object to adopting this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195920	Yes, but that is also true in the current parliamentary year, and if we are going to make that legislative text and so on, there may well be a time problem in that context too. I don't know how to interpret that laugh and the mouth movements that Mrs Jette Gottlieb made during my speech, but in any case I interpret it as an applause. Then I fully agree with this and that is also why I said from the start that we need to create this legal framework. In time, I just think we need to do it properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406195949	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. The next person to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406200007	Thank you, President. In the Social Democratic Party we are deeply concerned about achieving a better balance in Denmark and creating a breeding ground for change, so that there is a return to our islands and rural areas. That is why I would also like to thank the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. In fact, it is a little unfortunate, or rather boring, that it is even necessary to deal with the possibility of municipalities operating so-called settlement houses, because, as my good colleagues in the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands will remember, every time we have passed Ærø, we have also looked at the island's settlement house and heard about the great success that it has been over the years. And we have all praised the municipality of Ærø for taking the initiative of the settlement house and the opportunities it offers for city dwellers and land crabs to try the island life off without committing themselves to more than the pants can hold. The figures speak for themselves. The vast majority of people actually decide to stay on the island, which is very good, but it is also good that those who find out that the island life was not just the dream and decide not to stay have the opportunity to go ashore again without losing it all. That is why it is, in a sense, a pity that it is bureaucracy that is putting a brake on the success of settlement houses. But that is what gives us the opportunity to bring the legislation into line, so that once and for all it is established under what conditions the municipality can set up settlement houses. As described in the motion for a resolution, it must not distort competition and there must be certainty that there will be no permanent residence for tenants. In addition, there may be a large number of other factors that need to be taken into account. However, the message from the Social Democrats is that we propose that we in the committee should draw up a report based on B 118 as proposed by the Socialist People's Party, and that the necessary legal basis be created subsequently so that it will be possible for municipalities to make settlement houses as we know it on Ærø.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406200238	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Can I have the rapporteur just get the platform ready for the next one? I can't do that. Nah, there's a new package of alcohol wipes here. Here you go. The next rapporteur will be prepared, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406200307	Thank you for that, President. In the Left, we warmly welcome this proposal from the SF, and I sense that there is in fact a real will to find the right solution, so that you can achieve relatively simply the same nice numbers of migration that you have on Ærø, on the other beautiful islands we have in the kingdom. With this motion for a resolution, the SF has put forward a process in which we in the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands can all take responsibility so that we can find the right solution together. We support the proposal and can only encourage all parties to take an active part in the work so that we find the right model to navigate between the urban renewal law and the rental law and set a ceiling on municipal involvement so that we do not stifle the free initiative. But of course there must also be a framework when it comes to the length of the rental and the price that can be charged. I look forward to the fact that, in agreement with the committee, we can present the Things with a report that will be able to enjoy the promotion, but which could also be taken down as a useful solution for our islands and rural areas. Again thanks to the SF for a great initiative. We in the Left support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406200416	I would also like to thank the rapporteur of the Left for preparing for the next rapporteur with one of the fine green napkins. Thank you. Peter Juel-Jensen This is my main competence, President). I'll keep an eye on that if it is. So far, it looks quite promising • Remember the buttons on the right. That's it, that's it. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is therefore welcome to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406200452	Thank you. And thank you for the fine cleaning to the Left's rapporteur, that was great. There is a fun paradox in Danish society. It is that out there, where it is most beautiful to live, out there, where you wake up to the sound of bird songs, where you look out over the fields and meadows and the forest and the sea and the lake and the hills, you also struggle with the greatest depopulation. Sometimes I can think: if they just knew inside the cities how nice it is to live out there, where I live, or out on a beautiful island, then I think there would be many more who moved to rural areas and islands. Perhaps many think, at least if we are to believe Realdania, who did a study that showed that as much as 25%. of the Danish population would like to live closer to nature. Then why don't they come out and live in Djursland, where I live, or come out and live in one of the other beautiful rural areas or on one of the beautiful islands? It is a pretty big leap to make, and since there are not so many rentals in rural areas and islands, it is often necessary to buy a house there, which is a huge risk. Well, first of all, you're lucky if you can even borrow money for a house there. After all, this is a problem that we in the committee have also dealt with. Secondly, if it turns out that this rural life or this island life wasn't just for you, then you're dealing with a house that's really hard to sell and that you might even sell with a huge loss. It is therefore a huge advantage to be able to do what Ærø Municipality has done for years, namely have a settlement house, which the municipality operates, where you can live for a few months and see if this island life or rural life is for you. It was wonderful to see what success Ærø Municipality had with it, because the majority of those who had lived there actually ended up living on the island. It was a huge success; until then it was discovered in the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior that it was not quite legal and that it was thereby slowed down. In the Danish People's Party, we want to ensure that there is a legal basis for this, and that is why we would like to commend the Socialist People's Party for taking the initiative on this very good thing. In the specific proposal here there are some things we are a little uncertain about in the Danish People's Party that are not clearly shown, and that is precisely: which municipalities are we talking about? The headline says rural and island municipalities. Then it says under the heading: Municipalities and islands. What municipalities are these? What is a rural municipality? Is it the outer municipalities and the rural municipalities? Or what is it concrete? We would have liked to have defined in concrete terms what kind of municipalities they are. We would like that to be made clear. Another thing we must also be aware of is that every time we make legislation in here, there are always some people for whom there is a whole sport to make the best use of that legislation. So I'm just thinking, it's almost summer, and then you can sit and think, you know what? In June, July and August, I don't really have to be very much at my place of work there I can work a lot from home. Good. Then I say that I am interested in living on an island and therefore would like to rent me into the settlement house in June, July and August. Then I'll have a lovely and cheap summer vacation. We need to make sure that's not an option. Because if you're going to try out island life or rural life, you have to do it in the darkest months of the year, because that's where you get the real picture of what it's really like to live in a rural area or on an island. So in the proposal we must also have made it quite clear, so that we ensure that people do not make the most of this. So if we can agree on that, that is to say that we are just defining clearly which municipalities it is, and if we can agree that we are just making the proposal waterproof, then we in the Danish People's Party can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406200936	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and so I can welcome the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Kathrine Ollyday. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201012	Thank you very much, and thank you very much to the SF. This is a really good proposal, and it will be very exciting to continue working on it, since I can also hear that there is really broad support for it. In several municipalities, not only in the municipality of Ærø, it is the case today that private associations, local councils or the municipality themselves have taken the initiative of trial houses or settlement houses • they call it different things • how possible newcomers can try to live to see if life here is for them. I have had one of the initiatives at close quarters of West Møn, where it has been a great success and led to half of the stays in rehearsal houses becoming permanent settlements. There's a lot of ways to organize these rehearsal houses or settlement houses. As far as we are concerned, in the Radical Left, it makes very good sense to create as good a framework for the initiative as possible, even if this initiative should come from local municipal politicians. It must be possible in urban renewal legislation to create this room for manoeuvre that we are talking about. However, in order to achieve this objective as precisely as possible, it would be good to have a discussion in committee on how we can hedge in the possibility, as other rapporteurs have also mentioned. Because, of course, the municipality must not rent a holiday, and of course, rehearsal houses must not become a permanent residence. This must be exactly what is being proposed here, namely a test house where you can try to stay for a short period of time. And then, in fact, I intend to think a little longer and perhaps even now start a proposal for a debate, namely to try to live in an external rural or island municipality. In addition, it makes great sense if the process is supported by a local network that can introduce to the community's institutions, cultural services and association life, because it is far from only brick that you choose for when you move. That is the whole package, and it only knows the local citizens. Therefore, we also think it should be a requirement that there is a network of local citizens around a test house, otherwise you can just rent a summer house in the area. All in all, this is a very sympathetic proposal which does not cost the Treasury money and which will support settlements in rural areas and islands. Let the municipalities be landlords to future settlers if they want to. Radical Left supports the proposal and, of course, very much looks forward to being included in the report, which we also think is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201233	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201240	Thank you to the rapporteur. I fully agree that some active communities are important, but when you go to the website of the islanders, you will see that it is an association of 27 islanders and it shows everything about the local environment. There's someone you can contact. I called someone just before, and he picked up the phone, so it works. It's already working. So what else is it gonna take? Does the rapporteur not believe that there is already a great deal of interest in living on the islands because free ferry has just arrived and you can work from home because of corona? So why is it that the municipality now needs to have a strengthened role again? Is that even necessary? We have already helped with free ferries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201327	We in the Radical Left see, if I was not clear enough, for us in fact a cooperation between the local initiative of volunteers, association work, local council, local citizens and the municipality, which can go in and support, for example. financial support, the development of such a settlement house. It can, for example, be done. be about to buy an old corpse of a house and then put it in place for municipal crowns and then by the way let the operation of it be taken over by an association. As the rapporteur also mentions, there is a strong network, but there is not necessarily everywhere. Sometimes, when you have tried to make these settlement houses around the municipalities, the initiative may have been well-intentioned by local authorities, so that the local involvement has been coupled. And for us, these two bodies can just not be without each other when you're doing this. Otherwise it doesn't make sense; then you might as well rent a cottage.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201419	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201421	Thank you. There is a great deal that a municipality can do precisely to ensure infrastructure, that there is room for children to be cared for, and to create business opportunities in the local area. But why should a municipality be a private landlord of housing? Why should it not be an islander who can say that there is actually an opportunity here to buy a house and can invest in it and get it rented out, so that it can also create an extra income which is much more beneficial to the citizen than to the municipality fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201452	One doesn't rule out the other. What we are talking about here today is also to give the municipality the opportunity to do the same, to give the municipality the same right of initiative, an opportunity that private people have, as associations have, and which local councils, as I also mentioned, have. So there are several different promoters in this area. The more people who actually have the opportunity to create these houses, the better in our eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201512	There is one more brief comment, and that is for Mr Seligman. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201516	Thank you. I just need help because there's something I don't quite understand. I could almost understand here that there were free ferries to the islands. It's just to clarify exactly: do we agree that there are no free ferries to any islands in this kingdom? It was free for pedestrians and cyclists 1 month last summer, and that's what's been. Otherwise, you have to pay what it costs to get out on an island. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201539	Yes, I can confirm the rapporteur's point with his very leading question, and, moreover, add that it is not free of charge, since it has been paid by the Treasury to be quite honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201550	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And would the rapporteur be kind enough to prepare the platform for the next one? It's amazing how many times you need to know!). Yeah, but it's okay. The president needs to be kept in his ears, too. The next rapporteur is on the verge of leaping, and that is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Welcome to Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201613	I'm not the rapporteur on this proposal, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard, but unfortunately he could not be here, so I have promised to make his views known. More and more people are moving towards the larger cities and away from the other areas in Denmark. Is this a law of nature? Nope, it is the result of a political planning of increased centralisation, which we see as the bourgeois governments have stood for. That is why we see enormous pressure on the housing market and the green areas of the large cities, while the villages and islands are being depopulated at the same time. For too many years we have seen reform on reform, which has only made the problem worse. These are reforms such as health reform, police reform, municipal reform, which have all contributed to the centralisation of a number of functions and which, as a consequence, have resulted in the withdrawal of people from the smaller communities in our rural areas and our islands. There is such a need for steps to be taken in a different direction, towards less centralisation, and here I am not talking about the headless relocations by the last bourgeois governments of a few state jobs from Copenhagen to the larger provincial towns. We really need to make it more attractive to live in our rural areas. This also means that we cannot eat people off with the fact that there is very far to the nearest emergency reception or public authority, let alone youth education. They must necessarily be within reach of a la moped distance or the nearest ferry connection. This is also true of higher education. We really need to move in a different direction. Now we have a motion for a resolution from the SF which is very sensible. The proposal is based on the experience of Ærø, which has been very successful and which has produced some good results. The proposal is intended to ensure that municipalities like the municipality of Ærø can continue with a similar scheme. The proposal may not be fundamental in terms of overcoming the structural imbalances in Denmark, nor is it intended, as far as I can see, but the proposal shows very well that we must do everything we can to help rural municipalities and island municipalities become attractive so that they can attract people to small communities. So thank you to the SF for this proposal, which Enhedslisten naturally supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201839	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Jette Gottlieb That was lucky). The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Kathrine Ammitzbøll, whom I saw just now. That's weird. The rapporteur was present in the Chamber quite a short time ago. Then it will be that I see whether there is a rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There is no such thing, and there is no rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance either. That is why I can see that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion is now standing up, who is thus given the floor a little faster than expected, but it is a good thing that the rapporteur is ready. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406201938	Thank you for that and thank you to everyone for a very fine debate. I can see that there is at least some kind of support for the proposal, although there are a few issues and also some that would like some adjustments along the way. In January 2020, I was with the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands and there are also some people here today who were with us on a trip where we were visiting Ærø, and we stopped by this very settlement house. We could only see the house from the outside, because it was at that time inhabited, but while we were standing there on the road, we were put into the success story, it was that the municipality had renovated this house and rented it out for a shorter period to people or families who considered moving to the island and they had succeeded. It is quite an achievement in itself when you hear about how else it can be difficult to get new residents to islands and rural areas. And in fact, since 2014 there have been 19 families or people living in the house, and of them five have bought their own house on Ærø, and eight have moved to other leases on the island. I think this is a fantastic story, and it shows that the rental period may have been the push that was needed for them to dare to take the leap. The municipality itself, apparently, thought it was such a fantastic story. They have a waiting list for the house, so they decided in 2018 that they would continue to work on creating two new settlement houses. But from there things are going so wrong because the scheme is being overruled. There is simply no legal basis for the municipality to operate this kind of business, and that is why we are here today and the SF has made this proposal. I think it is very good that the municipality has succeeded in creating settlements, and therefore I think that municipalities should actually have explicit access to these settlement houses, so that they can continue the success not only on Ærø, but everywhere else where they think it is a good idea. And I am also glad that to some extent we agree that this should happen. I do not think I agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that one should be resident on an island or borrow the settlement house in the darkest, darkest months. I do not see that we have to limit this to the summer months too, and I really think that the risk of such abuse must be very, very small, since moving to an island is, after all, a challenge, after all, sometimes a matter of going to the mainland. So I do not believe that there are people who want to abuse it as a summer house scheme. And I actually think that the proposal has incorporated the point where we say that you should only make these houses as part of a settlement strategy. So it is clear that there must also be such an active purpose in it. Whether or not we need to define more clearly which municipalities it should be that can benefit precisely from this scheme, we can discuss it in committee. I can understand that this is the only time to table a motion for a resolution, which is the Minister's objection in order not to support the motion for a resolution directly. An amendment to the motion for a resolution would probably have solved that if it were finally to be. But let us take the debate in committee. The important thing is that we all agree that you should of course have the opportunity to have a settlement house as part of a strategy to get more settlers. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406202330	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is from Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406202335	Thank you. In the proposal, the rapporteur writes that rural and island municipalities can operate settlement houses. What, according to the rapporteur, is a rural community?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406202350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406202350-2	Now I do not remember the precise definition, but the Ministry of Business has actually made a grouping in relation to what they regard as rural municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406202401	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406202402	That's right. The Department of Business has done that. The municipalities which are least populated are called rural municipalities. Those who are the second least populated are called outer municipalities. Then there are intermediate municipalities, and then there are urban municipalities. Are these rural and peripheral municipalities, as the rapporteur means by rural municipalities? Because it's incredibly important to know what it is. Because if the municipalities do not count and the municipalities do not count, we have a problem on the 27 small islands. At least there can't be settlement houses on many of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406202435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406202436	The 27 small islands are mostly located in some municipality, so I think that was covered by the definition that we have put in here. But we are very open to discussing it. In principle, I have nothing against the fact that we do not impose any restrictions at all, so that all municipalities can make a settlement house, if it is as part of a strategy to attract newcomers. But on the other hand, I also see the need for a little fenced in. So we can discuss that when we make the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406202510	That's it. Thank you, Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt, rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Now there's a desire for another round. The Conservatives' rapporteur would like to ask for the floor in a second round, and so it is possible that both the minister and the draftsman of the motion for a resolution can also speak again if necessary. But at least here in the second round I will give the floor to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406202544	Thank you for raising the debate on the beautiful island communities. 27 islands define our island communities. Although it was somewhat unclear in the resolution whether it is islands or whether it may also be peripheral municipalities, I choose to read it as saying that we are focusing on islands. There has actually been an increase in the number of people living on the islands. In 2016-2019 there has been an increase of around 500 people. I believe that if you go to 2020, there has probably been a further increase as it has now become more legitimate to work at home. In fact, a lot of people have had to work at home. There have been better connections and we have not had to move very much in the city's inner life or nightlife because it has been closed. So there is a greater interest in our islands. This was confirmed when I had a conversation one of the islanders' contacts who told me that he now had three offers a week from someone who wanted to buy his house. Actually, it wasn't a question of there being houses that just stood and weren't used for anything. On the contrary, there was a need for more houses to be built, for now it had become so attractive to live on islands, especially after covid-19. This conversation puts this on your head a little bit. First of all, it is certainly our view that it is not the municipality that should start to be a landlord on market terms. Private people can do that. In fact, there are also contacts on this website, both if you are going to rent a home and if you are going to buy a home. So there's also help. What is important for the municipalities and, as the municipalities already do, of course, something we would like to support from the Conservative People's Party is that we have a Denmark in balance. For us, it is very important that we strengthen our beautiful coasts, islands, etc. in writing. - (FR) We are in favour of phasing them out, and we are also in favour of strengthening them with training places, with jobs and with good infrastructure. We think it is very important that our country, which is not bigger than what it is, is very well connected. So the task of the municipalities is to ensure to a large extent that children can be cared for, that there are business opportunities, that there is infrastructure. And the fact that there were free ferries, yes, correctly last summer for a month, made it incredibly attractive to get out to the islands. In fact, many of the islanders could not even come home or come out of their island, for so many were interested in going out on an island. We are therefore opposed to the proposal, because we do not believe that it is the municipality's job to be a landlord of housing. Private people can do that very well. It can also generate a different income for some of those who already live on the islands and who need the income to keep busy and keep the economy going if there is a decline in business opportunities locally. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406202854	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406202857	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I do not agree all the way, but I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, because it is a little new from a conservative point of view that we want to challenge the planning law on the islands and allow more housing to be built. That is a fine agenda. The Left would like to support all the way. We look forward to seeing something concrete from the Conservatives about the law of plans and then a coastline or coastal proximity zone or a beach protection line. We're ready for that in the Left. I agree that things are going better on the islands. But I think that the rapporteur has misunderstood this proposal a little, because it is not a compulsion. Well, you don't have to offer this opportunity. You can offer it if you feel there is a need, and there are very many islands that do not have rental accommodation. There are a great many islands which have problems in obtaining risk capital, and that is why it is very, very difficult to acquire housing, plus that it is the same very few that have to pull all the load, and therefore it is difficult to make substitute schemes etc. What's it gonna take for the Conservatives to back this up? What are these fence posts that we must join together in striking the ground to ensure that the Conservatives are included in this, and we are giving our islands a better opportunity to find more rentals in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203012	Thank you. Now this isn't just about planning law. Them, for example. Talked to today, said they were talking to the local town council about trying to find opportunities with a local investor to do something on that island. You have to look at that locally. It is clear that there are some challenges and that some islands are more peripheral, but therefore it will not change the principle that it is not the municipality that should be the landlord for commercial housing. In terms of strengthening our overall balance in the country, it is of course a great deal about us, for example. to create more economic opportunities outside cities, e.g. like Novo in Kalundborg. There is a good mayor I think he is from the Left and he says: Come to Kalundborg, you can get a house on the coast and a job. And he's trying to create a professional education for engineers. And you can clearly see the shift in Kalundborg after Novo, for example. has come to, and of course it is not just Kalundborg, but it is also around the region. So it is all about seeing things in a context, i.e. both industry and education, and that there are also opportunities for an infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203121	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203123	I was at Langeland here at Easter. There are a great many empty homes and I think Novo was very welcome there if the rapporteur has any relations. The rapporteur just lost me a little, because the rapporteur said that the rapporteur had had contact with a private citizen who had approached the city council and then had to find some investors together. The city council is also a kind of public company, so in one way or another we are forced to give these islands opportunities to develop, just as we have done with money for cheaper ferry tickets, and just as we have done with a broadband pool and a demolition pool. We are being forced to hold hands under something to help push a development. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203202	Yes, I quite agree with that. This was about someone who said that he just came from a meeting with two city council members where they had a discussion about this on the local island. So they were looking at what to do. It is clear that we need to look at new developments and also at more tourism, activities, that is, everything that can do, that we are still keeping alive on our 27 islands. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203223	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Yes, someone asked for the floor in the second round. Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203247	Thank you. It was the rapporteur for the proposal who just called me on the line here. For the rapporteur, in reply to me, concluded by saying that this could in principle apply to all municipalities. In that case, we in the Danish People's Party will vote clearly against the proposal. For settlement houses, something must be set up to address the problems of rural areas and islands in relation to depopulation. Settlement houses should not be something that provides cheap accommodation for those who live in Aarhus and Copenhagen. So if that's what this proposal ends up with, then it's a clear no from the Danish People's Party. What we in the Danish People's Party want is that the rapporteur for the proposers would very much like to sit down with the Danish People's Party and the rest of the committee, where, before the last reading, we have clearly defined what these municipalities are. This is what I tried to get an answer to in vain from the rapporteur, and it is simply because, if it is about the five islands, it is fantastic, and we are all in favour of it, and if we define rural municipalities by saying that they are rural municipalities and peripheral municipalities, it is also fine and that we are also in favour of it. Where it is then a little mottled, it is with regard to the 27 small islands, some of which are located in rural municipalities and outlying municipalities. But Tunø belongs to Odder Municipality, which is an intermediate municipality. Shouldn't they have settlement houses on Tunø? And Mandø and Egholm belong respectively to the municipality of Esbjerg and the municipality of Aalborg, which are municipalities of the city, and that means that they should also have the opportunity for settlement houses, but we cannot, as a starting point, give it to the municipality of Aalborg, because it should not be possible to make it available to those who live there, to make a settlement house. So that is why we need to define it, and if we have control of island municipalities, rural municipalities and peripheral municipalities, we can say: fine, they can all get it. But then we simply have to define the fact that the 27 small islands which are located in municipalities which are not rural, peripheral or island municipalities for that matter must also be able to do so, even if they are located in intermediate or urban municipalities, but are not given to the municipalities. So that's why we in the Danish People's Party would be quite keen on that definition. So if that is what the rapporteur has said, it is simply a clear no, because then we are moving far away from what was the intention of the proposal, namely to kick life in rural areas and the islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203533	Thank you. This gave rise to a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203538	Thank you. It's a different day today. Firstly, I have praised SF several times from the platform; it does not happen very often. Secondly, we have a second round of a proposal that concerns our islands and rural areas, and that has never happened before. But should we not promise each other that now that we have agreed that we are taking this back to committee and that we are writing a report, that is where we take the discussion and where we fence the proposal in? Because I sense we're talking away from each other at the moment. Should we not try to see if we can keep this together and see if we can land a joint report so that we can get these houses moving on our islands and in our rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203619	There is nothing I would rather do, so I will look forward to doing so, together with the rapporteur and the other good colleagues we have here. It was only because, when the rapporteur for the SF proposers says that we could do this in principle in all municipalities, I have to say that it is without the Danish People's Party, because we will not be involved in this in Copenhagen and Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203639	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203640	Then I should hardly ask any more questions. However, the Conservative rapporteur opened up such a small door so that perhaps at some point we could also just reverse the law on plans, including for our islands. Because when you consider that there is a beach protection line and a coastal zone, there is little space where development can take place on the islands, and on many islands nothing can actually happen at all. What does the rapporteur's party say about the good idea of the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203704	Well, the rapporteur has had the same good idea as the rapporteur of the Left is also aware of, namely that precisely on the 27 Danish small islands, there is not much room for building, which is why it is important that we ensure that the law on plans also allows for this. And it's not just the law of plans, it's also all the other laws. It is also status quo conservation and all sorts of other things that we need to do away with on the 27 Danish small islands, so that there can also be an opportunity to extract more on the islands, which are of course a need that many of them also have. So we are open to that in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203740	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203744	As I said before, I understand the need to impose some restrictions. Conversely, I would say that I now live in Kolding Municipality, and I do not think it is possible to describe this as a rural municipality, but we do have villages that are heavily challenged, for example. We have also recently had to close a village school. It is not far off to think that you could have used a settlement house like trying to get some new people to move to that village, so you could have kept the village school alive, or is it a completely silly idea for the Danish People's Party? I think we should discuss this here when we make the report, but I just want to know if it would be completely ridiculous to imagine that there would be other and more municipalities that could have benefited from a settlement house.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203838	There is, for example. I am in favour of this, too, of intermediate municipalities where parts of the intercommunal community also suffer from depopulation. However, should we do so, I think we should do so in such a way that we simply took those who were the hardest hit, and the rapporteur knows just as well as I do that those who are the hardest hit are the ones on the islands, and they are the ones in rural areas, i.e. rural and peripheral municipalities. So I think that could be where we could start, and then I am open to seeing what it looks like when the ships are put in the lake, of course we could look at developing it and see if we could also do it in parts of other municipalities. I just don't want to be the one who gives carte blanche to say all the intermediate municipalities and all the urban municipalities, because then we are creating a completely different problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203932	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203933	Of course, I respect that too, i.e. that the Danish People's Party has the position they once have. I think I just want to say that perhaps we should leave the rest of the discussion to the committee. However, I am glad that the rapporteur is not completely closed to the fact that it could be said that there were other municipalities which might also benefit from it as part of a settlement strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406203955-2	I would be happy to help the SF rapporteur always to do well in his own constituency. But we can take the rest of the discussion when we come to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406204007	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406204040	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406204101	Thank you for the floor, President. With the motion for a resolution here, the authors of the motion for a resolution want to oblige the government to put forward a bill guaranteeing the right to outpatient treatment for the victims of violence and their children. I am pleased to note that there is a broad preoccupation with the area of violence across the parties here in the Folketing. This is an area in which we in the government fully agree must be given a high priority, and which is why we have already given a significant boost in our first Finance Act. I remember a newspaper headline that actually called it a historic boost, I think. Violence causes violent scars on the body and soul, violence, both the mental and the physical, is destructive to a person and, perhaps, especially when it takes place where one should be most secure, namely in his home, and when the perpetrator is the one he should be able to feel safe about, namely his partner. The fact that violence is destructive also applies to children who witness the violence. In 2019 alone, the Children's Phone 2,276 had talks with children about violence, and it is devastating for those children too, and therefore we cannot and should not accept violence as a society. If you are trapped in violence in a relationship, there must be help, even without having to move to a shelter. It is therefore important that outpatient treatment and advice be provided to victims of violence and to the perpetrators of violence, so that the latter can be helped to stop their violent behaviour. We will be discussing this later when we will be discussing motion for a resolution here shortly, later this evening. B 124. The government has had a clear ambition to strengthen social services for people who can easily be overlooked because they rarely or dare to draw attention to themselves. We know that one of the things that comes with violence, social control, psychological violence is that you lose faith in your own worth as a human being, and therefore this is not a group that typically cries out very loudly and fights for itself. This just means that the responsibility rests so much heavier on our shoulders as politicians, and I think that ambition is also reflected in the great increase in violence that the government, together with the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and also the former party of the proposers, the alternative, secured by the 2020 Finance Act. With the agreement, which, in addition to securing up to 100 extra seats at our shelters, so that there is a capacity and not a closed door for those who are fleeing the violence, we also recognised the importance of outpatient treatment, because we set aside 48 million. kr. to enhanced outpatient violence counselling. A major part of the boost was to secure permanent funds for a number of offers, for the first time, i.e. permanent funds for outpatient treatment. It was specifically the work of Mother's Help • Out of Violence's Shadow and Danner's efforts • Tell someone who both offer outpatient treatment to the outcast and to their children and relatives. The support for Dialog Against Violence was also permanentised. These are all offers which, from pool to pool, have had to bet from time to time that there was continued funding and political attention when the rate pool was negotiated. This was an unsustainable approach to important offers, which must of course be able to maintain a high level of professionalism, which is why I am also pleased that, with our first Finance Act, together with the Finance Bill parties, we secured out-turns as a permanent and lasting part of the effort we can offer the victims of violence. At the same time as the permanent funding for the offers, an application pool was also established to spread more outpatient services so that even more people who have violence in their lives can get the help they need. The pool was turned into a way that Danner's nationwide outpatient counselling services to violence-induced women... say so to someone and Project Q-Works counselling and network for violence-induced women... Our Road Out received funds. With the agreement on the mobilisation of the reserve for social, health and labour market measures from 2021 to 2024, early preventive action against violence in close relationships was further strengthened. As part of an overall initiative of that agreement, a previously tested intervention model must now be developed, which the proposers also write a lot about in one of the motions for resolutions I do not remember exactly in which of them. It is a model which is a cooperation between counselling services, the municipality and the police, and which is aimed at both perpetrators and perpetrators of violence. What you saw when you first developed and tested the model was that, in connection with a pool grant, this model succeeded in motivating those involved to participate in counselling courses and get help at an earlier stage than we typically see. Violence in the home is, unfortunately, often something that goes on in everything, far too long. Now we've set aside the funds to develop this model. Once again, we are investing in the fight against violence and ensuring that more people can also be helped to provide early and preventive outpatient counselling. In addition to that, as a central part of the Agreement on the Reserve for 2021 to 2024, we extended the National Unit of Life Without Violence until mid-2024. After all, it is an actor who plays a key role in the field of violence; it is a uniting unit that transcends target groups, forms of violence and offers. The unit also operates the electronic inventory of places at shelters, the national hotline, which can be called by both violent, violent and relatives. In addition, they also offer legal advice and have a central role in knowledge gathering about violence in close relationships. We share the intentions and ambitions of the proposers and the desires of the government for ambitious action in the field of violence, yet we cannot support the proposal as it stands here. The proposers do not point to funding, and it must also be said that this will come too late in relation to the financial law negotiations, both the very large agreement we concluded together on the financial law for 2020 and, most recently, the agreement we made on the reserve before Christmas. I think the agreements are going to make a big difference, we are going to follow implementation closely and have thus lifted the out-patient effort more than I remember has happened so far in our dear country here. But we are going to follow this area, and I would like to say very clearly from the platform here today that we are not finished, and I think that the proposers are focusing on some of the very right places when they grab the outpatient aid when they deal with so much of the intervention model that we must now have further developed, so that we can strengthen it in relation to the experience that was gained last time, and also, and we will do so in the later debate, strengthen the focus that is on the perpetrators. So thank you for your attention. I think, in all modesty, that we jointly fulfilled the ambitions, a good part of them, in our first common financial law at the time, when the alternative was included, but will look forward very much to working on furthering the area of violence and, of course, with as broad a majority in the Folketing as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406204902	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406204905	Thank you, Minister. I could easily follow much of the argument in the speech just given by the Minister, but nevertheless we just know that, even if we put some money aside at the time, it is still not enough; it is still not enough. Since then we have seen with the corona that I think it was called a pandemic in the pandemic that there has been an increase in domestic violence, that more children are exposed etc. etc. Does this mean that there has been this crisis, that this new situation has been created, which NGOs and other organisations are also shouting about, namely that there is a pandemic in the pandemic, not an opportunity for us to do much more than what we have agreed in the previous agreement? What does the Minister think about that? What worried me when I have followed the debate in this area is that we are in a different situation than when we made the agreement. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205018	The questioner is quite right, of course, that in many ways the coronapandemic served as a magnifying glass on our society, both in terms of the things that work well in our social model, where we promise in groups and have strong institutions, but also in terms of some of the problems that exist. If it wasn't the And it's not just something that happened in Denmark. I have had the opportunity to discuss this with a European colleague and also an ambassador from another part of the world, and this with increased conflicts and increased domestic violence is something that comes with crises, even when we are in a crisis like this in which there is decommissioning. This simply confirms why this is an area where we are not in the goal and where we must not let go and where what we are doing is really crucial, and that is why we concluded more than once political agreements to ensure that during the corona crisis there was the capacity needed in the crisis centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205120	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205121	Then I would like to use my last question to hold the Minister on to and hopefully get a promise on what the Minister says that you will follow the area and that you will follow developments. If it turns out, which one can already see that it is still not enough, that although historical money has been set aside, the area has been so under-priority that it is simply not enough and that during this parliamentary term there is a need for additional funds, do I hear the Minister say that one could then put forward such a proposal or a proposal to ensure that we ensure proper treatment, both outpatient treatment and all that? Is that what I hear the Minister say from the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205208	Now, of course, I am not going to anticipate the discussion of the next resolution, but I believe that as a society we must have the ambition to put an end to violence far more fundamental than we are doing today, and that is why, in fact, there is also in the government's proposal that the children should first focus on the children who grow up violent homes or are caught in situations where violence is committed against the parents. I would very much like to make a commitment that this is something we will be focusing on in all the contexts where it makes sense. It does so in relation to outpatient treatment and sufficient places in crisis centres, and it does so when we discuss the most vulnerable children and how we help them in time. So the rapporteur can be absolutely sure that this is not an agenda I am going to let go of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205249	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and then we start with the rapporteur's line of work and the minister takes a second round of cleaning up here on the platform. Here you go to Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205314	Thank you for that, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for bringing up something that is essential, which is important and which is serious. I have spent some of my Easter holidays reading e-mails, messenger messages and visiting at a distance from women who have experienced living close to violence and the concerns they have when living in conditions that are violent, violent, and where such things as psychological violence and economic violence and social control have also been part of their everyday lives. And as the Minister also said, it is something that causes scars on body and soul. Perhaps that is why the proposers have put forward the proposal, namely that we need to talk about what we are doing and how we are working on it, and that, I believe, we need to stop it being taboo, that it is something that is a social problem. That is why I think it is essential, in fact, to say what the Minister has said about the initiatives that have been taken in cooperation with the Finance Law Parties: it is therefore an agreement that has so much to do with making serious initiatives that will make a difference every day. Social democracy has a great deal of sympathy for the motion for a resolution, which is why we are glad that money has also been set aside. Are we then the target when we see that women and children grow up in an uncertain everyday life where they experience having the violence close to them? And in relation to women in vulnerable residential areas during the corona crisis, we have talked about the fact that crisis centres have not had the same approach, at least not in East Jutland, where I have come. There has been an absence of women from other backgrounds. Then where are they? That is why we simply need to have a dialogue on how to put an end to the various forms of violence, and that is why I recognise the desire to strengthen outpatient care. However, as the Minister also says, we cannot support the resolution because no concrete funding has been identified. But we think it is really important and important that we talk about it, that we talk about it, that it is a problem that should not be pushed under the floorboards. I want it out in the light. One last thing I just want to be allowed to highlight, and as I think we can all be proud of, is that with this police conciliation, we have actually been told that when cops come out to a violent home, they have to make notifications to the social authorities and take care of both the children and the adults who experience the violence. I think that is incredibly strong and something that I believe is going to make a big difference. So, with those words, I just want to say that we cannot support the proposal, but we have sympathy for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205635	Thank you for that and there is a brief comment. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205637	Thank you to the rapporteur. In other words, we are proposing that it should simply become a permanent part of the Finance Act. And in relation to that, I was also hoping that when the Social Democratic Party says that this is important, which I fully acknowledge and believe that everyone in here thinks that funding should not be what divides us. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur, and if I may ask, it is because the Prime Minister himself says she is the prime minister of the children. And we know right now that the help that is out there is not enough. There is simply violence out there, either not reaching the system or not getting enough help. I would just like to know if the rapporteur could tell us what the Socialists themselves think about those children and a child is a child too much and whether the Social Democrats have some initiatives or some proposals or other on the way to ensuring that everyone gets help. It is simply an open question to the Social Democratic Party: do you have anything on the way in the pipeline, so to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205745	Thank you so much. In fact, I think that the proposer has hit something very hard here, namely to take care of the children. That is also one of the points on which the proposal is based: it is not only adults who experience violence, but also their children. And it's absolutely true that we have something in the pipeline. If you read the play about putting children first, there are several points that point to what you do with children who experience domestic violence. And one of the things I can highlight, in addition to what the Minister has said, is that it has been pointed out that you are working with rights schools. One is working to spread that children in Denmark know not to beat children and that it is not okay to experience violence in a home. It is simply not okay for children to grow up in a home of violence. And we know that the model around the children's phone works, but we also know that there are a lot of children who do not actually know that it is not okay and that you must not hit either mother or children. So it's exactly hit, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205849	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Mrs. Maja Torp, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406205908	Thank you. This is a great day for me today, because this is actually the first time I have been standing here on the platform. That is why I am very pleased that this is as important a point as we are debating right now. Partner violence and violence in close relations are a serious social problem to which we cannot turn a blind eye. This has major consequences for the well-being, for security and general health, both for those who are exposed to violence and for those who grow up in violent families. Unfortunately, far too many both women and men are still exposed to so-called partner violence to this day. And especially here, with the corona crisis, we have seen how it is not for everyone the happiness to be home in the family's laps: closing down has led to increased pressure on families, and this has an impact on the escalation of violence, and we have among other things. Seen that more women than usual are looking for shelters. In the Left we will not stand idly by when people in Denmark are subjected to violence or threats of violence. Violence is both humiliating and straines self - esteem. Violence is not just a physical or a mental act. It is intimidating, it is oppressive and it is destructive. In other words, the violence is devastating for the person who is exposed to it and for the family and the children who experience it at the nearest level. In the Left, therefore, we agree with the authors of the motion that more can be done in this area. It is essential to ensure that both women and men who have been exposed to violence, threats and similar crises in close relationships receive the help they need quickly. According to the proposers, funding must constitute a fixed appropriation in the Finance Act from next year, and to this we have to say in the Left that we have not yet given priority to what we believe should be a priority in the Finance Act for next year. There is no doubt that there are a great many areas in these times, both in the public and private sectors, which are so pressured. That is why it is even more important to point out where the money is to come from. Otherwise, we risk harming the well-being of all of us, which will end up deteriorating. Finally, I should like to say to the Conservatives that they, like us, cannot vote in favour of the proposal because of the lack of funding. In the Left we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406210210	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406210219	First of all, I would like to say a huge congratulations. It must be a fantastic experience and feeling I remember myself, it was wild the first time standing up there on the platform. So a huge congratulations to the rapporteur. Then I would like to say, as I also said to the Socialist rapporteur, that I think it is a pity that we all note that this is so crucial and so important that the funding should separate us. I hope and am sure that we can find a solution for that so that we can help every single child out there who experiences this because a child is a child too much. Just as I asked the Socialists, and I know that this is the first time for the rapporteur ( Maja Torp) I just want to ask: do Left initiatives, initiatives or proposals on the way in the pipeline to help combat this problem of violence both women, men and children, but it is women and children in the family who are particularly at risk? Does the Left have any plans, initiatives or suggestions on the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406210324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406210326	Thank you. What we in the Left think is important is that we have a holistic look in this area and that we do not just get stuck to some needle-stick inserts, so we tie up some funds in advance, but that we have looked all the way around the area. Are there any synergies that we can support? Are there any existing offers that might take on even more tasks to support this area? But, you know, we're having this debate where we go all the way around and look at what we already have in the area of existing offers and bets, and where's what we need? Where could there be something we could use in a better way? But this is clearly an area which we in the Left also think is extremely important. No one should live with violence in the close relationships there should be no one at all. Unfortunately, there is, and we need to look at whether we can prevent something more, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406210423	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406210426	Then I would just like to say that I am, of course, pleased with the focus that the Left has on the proposal. And, as I also said to the Socialists, the Free Greens will follow this very closely and very closely, and we will be making proposals to fight domestic violence over and over again. So let us give each other a hand in that if the funds do not reach out as we actually now know they do not do and we see that developments do not go as it should and that we do not get rid of the figures, then the Left will support the Free Greens' proposals so that we can combat domestic violence and secure women and children and all those who are subjected to violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406210504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406210507	We will definitely support the focus on the area, and then we will have to look at whether we can do any of what we are doing today even better. Can we also do something about perhaps some redistribution or in other ways put some focus on it? If we can find the means to do this, we are happy to support it, but we think that there is a great deal of priority that needs to be given right now, and we need to get an overview before we set aside funds in advance and commit ourselves to some fixed appropriations far into the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406210541	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Congratulations to the rapporteur on his first speech from this point of view. And then there will simply be drunkenness without the President having to call for it. That's great. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406210617	Thank you. And a huge congratulations to the rapporteur of the Left with her well-surpassed maiden speech in the Danish Parliament. It's a big day or rather night, we have to say. Unfortunately, my good colleague Karina Adsbøl is ill with corona, as you may have seen in the press, so I am here today, as rapporteur, on behalf of her, on the next two points. This proposal concerns the right to outpatient treatment for victims of violence and their children. All forms of violence are totally unacceptable, regardless of who commits it. It is estimated that 38,000 women and 19,000 men in Denmark have suffered partner violence. Women of non-Western origin are significantly over-represented in women's crisis centres. Here, outdated gender roles and parallel legal perceptions restrict individual rights and freedom. The Danish Parliament has secured funds for RED Safehouse, which operates two safe and hidden locations for young people fleeing honor-related conflicts based on, for example, negative social control, honor-related violence, forced marriage or threats to it. Where violence against women has been similar, there has been an increase in violence against men. When there is violence in a family, it cannot be avoided that it affects more people, including those who live with violence in the family. Those children need help, whether they show up with Mom at a women's crisis center or with Dad at a man's crisis center. We have had a major debate in the past when the government put forward a bill to give women the right to 10 hours of psychological assistance, but where men were not included in the bill. It was under consideration on 7 May 2020 and it can be seen that the Free Greens did not participate in the debate or in the committee's proceedings. We were parties that fought to include men and their children in the bill, but we failed. But we managed to get an experimental arrangement through in the reserve agreement. There should be no difference between what help one can get on the basis of gender. Today this is stated in section 109 of the Service Act: • The municipal council must offer temporary residence in housing forms to women who have been subjected to violence, threats of violence or similar crisis in relation to family or social relationships. Women may be accompanied by children and they receive care and support during their stay. ▪ But why not extend that paragraph to include men? It is about violence, and it is about having help, whoever you are, if you are subjected to violence. The proposal states that the treatment target must be adjusted every two years in the light of the need for help. It is expected that outpatient services for 3,000 people and accompanying children will ease the demand for women's crisis centres, which today reject up to 3,000 requests per year due to lack of space...Outpatient services will also reach the many thousands of women who currently receive no help to get away from the violence with their children. They thus have the possibility of a (family) life without violence and relief, and the psychological but the violence can bring about is alleviated. ▪ Since 2018, funds have been allocated to more places, both at the women's crisis centres and at the men's crisis centres. Funding is also provided for outpatient counselling and for enhanced outpatient violence counselling. A substantial part of the funds goes towards continuing and perpetuating operating aid for a number of existing outpatient services. It is of course important to always focus on whether the efforts that are being made are good enough or whether the area needs further. I am thinking that when the action plan, which has been financed with previous pool funds, expires in 2022, it makes good sense to pick it up in the contract circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406211022	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur from the Radical Left. Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406211050	Thank you. Of course, we are also extremely pleased that, in the 2020 Finance Act, we have initiated a series of out-patient measures for victims of violence. We are also very pleased, as the DF's rapporteur has also just pointed out, with a number of measures and initiatives against honour-related violence, against social control and the like, but it is also important for me to emphasise, when I say here today, that the cases of violence that are being carried out here are also carried out in extremely normal families and in academic families and also in other families. Many of us in the Folketing have been subjected to either social control, social violence, psychological violence, financial violence or physical violence. I have a scar in my head after a round, so for me, this is an extremely important area. You don't necessarily think that you're part of a statistic, but suddenly you experience as a well-educated woman that you're in no way protected from these trends. We also experience, both socially in the municipalities and, of course, from in here, that it can be extremely difficult to reach both the victims and those who practice violence. For both, it is actually really, really difficult to recognise that you are a part of it, whether you are the one exercising or the one who has been exposed to it. Because it's always just an exception or something that happened, or an accident, or that you walked into a door, or that you fell down the stairs, or whatever it may be, you make excuses for going beyond it, so you haven't been part of this yourself. That is why it is super important for us here in the Radical Left to say "and I am also glad that I was allowed to be a substitute today and jump to for Henrik Vinther, who could not be with us that we are of course extremely pleased with the actions that we were part of in the Finance Act in 2020. And we also expect us to be involved in the next initiatives, because, as the proposers say, that is not enough, and that will never be enough, because there will always be some that we do not reach. There will always be some academic noose who thinks that she is outside the statistics, or a perpetrator who does not even understand that what he is doing is violence. That's why it's never gonna be enough. So thank you for the suggestion. However, we are also missing the point of having it purely parliamentaryly in mind in a financial context, which is why we are very much looking forward to the fact that the Free Greens will also be an active part of the financial law negotiations in the next round. At any rate, we are counting on the Radical Left to put this on our short list for the next round of financial law negotiations. So thank you very much for a very good suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406211343	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406211346	The rapporteur may be 100%. sure that if the Free Greens are invited to the budget negotiations, we will be happy to come and then we will take responsibility with all the other parties, but now we will see if we get the invitation. With regard to the issue of violence against women, it is pointed out that it is not a particular group of women who are exposed to it, but that it is minority women, it is ethnic Danish women, it is highly educated women, and that we actually have major problems with the fact that highly educated women and those with close links to the labour market do not turn to these services. So thank you very much for the nuanced approach. And then I would just like to call once again for us to follow developments. In the near future we will be opening up, and then we will see how things are going, and if it turns out that further needs are needed, I hope that the Radical Left will be with the Free Greens to find additional funds, for example. by the next Finance Act, to make sure that we can solve this challenge together. So thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406211453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406211455	If the Free Greens experience that the Free Greens are not invited to the Finance Act negotiations, then you are very welcome to return your ideas, we will not steal them, we will tell them who they come from, but then we can at least take them to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406211506	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406211514	I would just like to thank the rapporteur for being so precise that we must remember to speak, that violence is happening in all walks of life, and that the way in which it is experienced is also often retrospective. So it is only when you get out of it that you experience how violent it really was. It is precisely about social control in general. It is about economic violence and control, and it is also about physical violence, and I think the rapporteur was very precise about that. I hope that on the second occasion we will be able to discuss this even more. So thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406211553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406211556	You're welcome. I am very, very convinced that the shadow figures we are seeing in this area are enormous. After all, we only have statistics for the things that actually either arrive at the emergency room or are actual reviews. It is also an area that I personally do not know much about, because I am not normally the rapporteur in this area, but I would very much like to keep up with how the actions we have taken in 2020 actually work, because that is something I personally care a great deal about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406211620	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406211634	Thank you. I would like to begin by hurrying to greet the rapporteur of the SF, who unfortunately could not, or she could be present in the Chamber, but is sitting right here in the chair. So there were other tasks to do. But both SF and Enhedslisten have been part of the finance agreements that several people have spoken about here from the platform. I do not want to make the same list of good initiatives, but I do not want to be pale about admitting that this is one of the points that I am right, really proud that we have together lifted the two previous financial laws. It is both important to ensure that we have many more places in the crisis centres, but also that we have permanent funding for outpatient treatment for both victims of violence and perpetrators of violence. Now I'm gonna make sure I don't switch the proposals. It actually means a lot to that area. So I think we can pride ourselves on the fact that we have taken some very important steps, which have not been seen in the last few years, in the field of violence, to ensure that something which, of course, should be absolutely fundamental, namely that there is access to a shelter. When you pack your bag and get out of here, you don't have to meet a closed door. Then you have to meet open arms. Too many have nowhere else to go and therefore end up at home again if they are rejected at the shelters. At the same time, of course, we must ensure treatment, psychological assistance, including for children, and at the same time take care of the people affected by domestic violence. Then there are others who have also mentioned this, and I would also like to emphasise that we are seeing an increase in the problems in homes. Deprived homes are hit harder by crises that we are experiencing right now. In many ways, the Corona crisis is also a social crisis. This applies both to the fact that some of the most vulnerable municipalities are those most affected by restrictions right now. It is thus also some of the most vulnerable children who cannot be allowed to go back to school. These are the families who are exposed economically and socially, but also those who have abuse or violence in the home. It is clear that we need to pay extra attention to this in these times. We need an extra outreach effort, and there must be both room and help for them when they turn to us. I also agree with many rapporteurs who have mentioned that one of the hardest things here is to ensure that people actually reach out for help. Too many people still don't. Shadow numbers are too high. Then I would also like to stress that when we talk about domestic violence, it is still very much a gender problem that affects women. This does not mean that there are not also men who are subjected to domestic violence, but it is very much a gender problem and we also need to treat it as such. I could spend a long time boasting something more of what we have done, but I would say to the proposers that I admit that the objective must be a right in the Service Act. We are not sure that it is necessarily there just because you get it inscribed in the Service Act. The right to a shelter is, in fact, written in the Service Act today. That does not mean that the seats are there. So we have to find the money for it, too. Is there a general need for upgrading? Yes, there is probably, even more than we have already done, and we will have to work on that together. However, because of the lack of funding, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal. But that does not mean that we do not agree with the intention, and I will give all the previous parties radicals, the Socialists, who have both boasted and promised that we are not finished, right. I also think I am quite sure that I can speak on behalf of the SF and say that they also want to brag, but also admit that they are not quite finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406212111	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406212115	When I go on the platform here in Parliament, the waves can go very high. It often ends in heated debates. That is why I have always had a really hard time with just exactly equal opportunities debates or about this fight against women's violence. 'Cause everybody agrees. When I get down to the Parliamentary Chamber, everyone agrees with me: that is right, Sikandar, the intentions are good. We do something and we have to do more. But... I would say that I had hoped that Enhedslisten would at least have said: we will find the funding, of course we will do it, because we just have to solve this. But whatever it is, thank you for the post. I remember the speech, and then I look forward to the financial law negotiations and hope that together we will be able to solve the challenge that still exists. For there is still a lack of help out there, both in shelters and in outpatient care, and yes, we must have it written into the Service Act. So I look forward to seeing Enhedslisten together with the Free Greens fight for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406212220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406212223	I can understand the frustration, sir. Sikandar Siddique. I can do that. Nor can I completely reject the fact that I have tried to sit with a motion for a resolution which I thought was banging well, and then get to know that it did not work out because there was no money for it. But that's right. We're gonna have to fund things before we do it. That's why I think you have to take the stabs home you're gonna get. There is, in fact, relatively strong support for this proposal in the Parliamentary Chamber right now, including that which can count more than 90 seats, and then it is the parliamentary art not only to produce the motion for a resolution, but actually to get it dribbled all the way through, for example. in a financial bill debate, or to find a source of funding which a majority can also support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406212316	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406212319	Yeah, that's what I did in the last parliamentary year when I suggested police units to fight this feminine violence. Then, unfortunately, I couldn't get back into the police settlement, again because I wasn't invited. But thanks for the input. We remember this, and when there are next budget negotiations, the Free Greens will be addressing the Enhedslisten with the proposal and with a proposal for funding that we expect Enhedslisten will then get through as a support party to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406212357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406212359	There are few things that you just run through as a support party to this government, even in the field of violence, I would say. But thank you for that. Then, of course, I look forward to having all the formalities in place to ensure that the Free Greens become a party involved in the negotiations and participate at the negotiating tables.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406212422	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. In fact, we are now through the rapporteurs who are present in the Chamber, apart from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406212451	Thank you for the floor. Every year in Denmark 38,000 women and 19,000 men are exposed to physical violence in close relationships, while twice as many are subjected to psychological violence. In addition, all children are involved because domestic violence has consequences for the whole family. I cannot imagine in my imagination anything other than that we can all agree here today that that is all, far too much and that is what we did during the debate. No citizen in Denmark should live with violence or have the violence close to life, either in the home or elsewhere, it is no longer, at least not if it is up to us in the Free Greens. That is why, as politicians, we have a very important and long-term task ahead of us. We need to break the basket and stop the violence. But the challenges are great and the last year's time has also been increasing, for the global pandemic has left dark traces. Even with the dark figures that always follow when calculating the violence in statistics and figures, the experts agree that violence has increased during the pandemic. At the recent UN summit of CSW65, violence against women was one of the top priorities, and the international community also recognised the scale of the problems and came to the realization that we are far from achieving a goal of stopping violence against women. We should have the same recognition in Denmark. From a political point of view, we have done well to increase the appropriations and the area of intervention over the last few years, but we are not in the end. And precisely that recognition is extremely important to hold on to, because we are still not helping all those who need help in Denmark. Danner's annual report for 2020 shows, for example, that they have had to reject 85%. of all inquiries due to lack of space. In general, there is also too much waiting time for both crisis centres and outpatient services. More geographical coverage is needed, and more and more differentiated offers are needed if we are to reach all the groups that need help. In other words, our current system is not enough and, politically speaking, we are failing too many, and it is and remains our task as elected politicians to ensure a better framework and more stable conditions for our violent citizens. Therefore, the Free Greens propose that the right to outpatient treatment for adults and their accompanying children who have been subjected to violence, threats of violence or a similar crisis in relation to family or social relationships be written into the Service Act. It will contribute to more equal access to treatment, we will reach more to stop the violence, we will be able to ensure faster help for those who have already asked for it, and we will reach out to groups that we are not reaching today. There is such a need for permanent solutions if we want to put an end to violence, and in the Greens we believe that a first step is to write the right to outpatient treatment into the Services Act. Corona or not, all of our victims of violence must have the right to help. We need to be able to offer varied and permanent offers, so there is something for everyone. For we humans are not the same, fortunately; we have different needs, and this also applies, of course, to the people who are subjected to violence. I hope I hope today, tomorrow, when we reopen and when the next crisis strikes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406212843	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406212856	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406212915	With the motion for a resolution here, we are really continuing the discussion that we have just had so well. Now the focus has turned to guaranteeing the right to outpatient treatment for the perpetrators, which is closely linked to the resolution on outpatient treatment for the victims of violence that we have just considered. That is why I would just like to start by welcoming the fact that there is such an obsession in this Parliament with the area of violence. I think that the actors who have been in this area for many years are rubbing their eyes and thinking: can it really be that we now have a Parliament that is so committed? And it's nice, and it's nice to feel the commitment so wide. I do not need to spend a long time telling you how harmful we are by violence and how enormously cross-border and destructive it is for a person to be subjected to violence where one should be safest, namely in one's own home, from the person one should be most safest, namely his partner, nor to use many words on the mechanisms of violence, which make it typical that there are rapporteurs who have been inside the Chamber themselves may find it difficult to recognise that one is violent because it does not fit in with one's self-conception, because one thinks that one is such a resource-rich type, or because through social control or psychological violence one has been so broken down that one loses faith that one deserves better, that one is worth better. So violence in our society is a big problem. This is a major problem for the children who grow up with violence in their homes, and that is why the government has also focused on it in our project • The children First, which among other things. It is also about ensuring a previous help for children who grow up in violent homes, and we have focused on it in our first Finance Act and in our reserve agreement. Of course, the need for help also applies to those who commit violence against their loved ones. We know from the studies that the proposers also write in their proposals that very many of the people themselves have grown up in homes with violence, and if we are really going to do something about this, we must have broken the spiral of violence, we must tackle the root of the nettle, so to speak, and ensure that the child who grows up with violence as a pattern of reaction, violence as a natural part of everyday life, does not reproduce it in his relationship. Unfortunately, we can see from the Children's Conditions Failure Report, which they publish on a regular basis, that from 2020 it shows that the total number of registered reports of physical violence also against children has increased significantly in recent years, and so we just have to say that every time we help a family where violence is part of everyday life, we help to do something fundamental about a problem that is otherwise reproduced and thrived too well in the shadows. Because this is not something that we are good at talking openly about as a society, and so there is a very great need for us as a society to have these out-patient offers, both in relation to the perpetrators of violence and also the perpetrators of violence. We have an ambition on the part of this government to strengthen the area of violence. We have had that since we entered the government offices, and we have already succeeded in doing so in the first financial law. Once again, I would like to thank the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, where the proposers were when we concluded the financial agreement, for the promise that we made there, which was both for women's crisis centres and psychological assistance, but also for permanent funds and pool funds both for existing and new outpatient services. The operating aid for dialogue against violence's out-patient counselling for perpetrators and relatives was also permanentised, and this means that, for the first time, through the Financial Act, we ensured that Dialogue against Violence is a permanent and lasting part of the effort that we can offer to perpetrators of violence. In addition to this, Dialogue Against Violence as part of the 2021 Finance Act will receive 0.8 million in the future. kr. in permanent operating grants. It is money that they can say they take over from another treatment offer, which is called Alternative to Violence, and which closed. Then, as we have talked about before, with the reserve and the agreement on the reserve for 2021-2024, we will also strengthen the early preventive action against violence in close relations. Because we have allocated money to further develop the intervention model that the authors of the motion for a resolution also write about, and this is a cooperation between counselling services, the municipality and the police, which is aimed both at the perpetrators of the violence and also at the perpetrators of the violence. And what we have seen from the first project period is that, in the context of police involvement in domestic violence, it has been a significant success to get those involved to participate in counselling and to get the help that is so essential to break free from violence. Now, with this new initiative, we are investing in the effort, and we need to develop the model that has shown good tactics, but it has also shown some weaknesses. We need to correct them, and when it is so important, it is, of course, because this early effort, where we have an opportunity to get into the family right away, can very much help to minimize the risk that this is something that is passed on to the children. As an essential part of the reserve agreement, we also agreed that the national unit against violence, Lev Without Violence, should be extended to mid-2024. They're drifting, among other things. the national hotline, which can also be called by perpetrators. So quite in line with what we were discussing in connection with the fight against violence, I would just like to say very clearly to the proposers that the government fully shares the intention that we should be ambitious here. However, as with the previous resolution, we cannot support the proposal here. After all, there is no provision for funding, and it is not here either that we are either in the vanguard of past financial laws or that we are in the vanguard of future financial laws. But, of course, I will look forward to the agreements we have made together with, among others. The alternative, when the proposers were there, but also broadly here in the Folketing with the reserve, and then we will deal with violence in close relationships. This is what we do when we negotiate the children First and the proposals that are here, in relation to the children who grow up in families with domestic violence, but also in relation to following up the initiatives that have already been taken. So thank you for the proposal, and thank you for the debate and all the boast, as I think someone called it, and thank you to the proposers for the initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406213638	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406213640	Thank you once again to the Minister. We just had the debate, so I'm not going to do it that far. I just want to hear it because I forgot to ask the Minister if the Minister will be involved in writing outpatient treatment claims into the Service Act as a separate paragraph.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406213656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406213658	Thank you. We have tried various initiatives in the field of violence with great success in the past, I think. This has been the case in the past with the rate pool, which no longer exists, but we also have the reserve for method development. However, we must first consider whether it will make sense and then how it will make sense to include rights and offers in our Service Act, both to make sure that we hit the right target group and, of course, also to make sure that the economy is accompanied by the right economy. That is how it was done when the right to psychological assistance was introduced for women's crisis centres for women and their children, and that is what we have now set in motion in relation to the men's crisis centres and those affected here. So I would like to say that I am open to discussing this, and I actually hear that you are broad here in the Danish Parliament, whether we should have looked at further development initiatives in connection with the reserve. We did the same with the intervention model in the previous agreement, so I think it would be a perfectly natural place to start that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406213801	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406213819	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, thank you for a significant contribution to the debate on violence in close relations, partner violence and the practice of violence. I would actually like to start by greeting one of the women with whom I have met, and that is a greeting to all my fellow rapporteurs. She said: Would you please greet them and say thank you; thank you for discussing violence; thank you for discussing what my everyday life is and in which my children have grown up. It's a thank you that I'd like to pass on to you. When you live in a violent relationship, there is also someone on the other side who is exercising violence, and that is what this motion for a resolution is based on. When I visited Mødrehjælpen in Aarhus, one of the special offers I noticed was the offer to violent people. This was particularly directed at young men, and I agree with the words of the Enhedslisten's rapporteur from the last debate that there is a very clear gender issue in the field of violence. It was an offer that Mother's Help had for young mothers who had a partner who practiced violence. They were included in a course of treatment where they got a look at their own violence, and in fact they also had some of their own childhood traumas and what they had experienced. As the Minister also says, this is something we can see for generations. We can see that this is something that is going on again. Therefore, it is also good that we have addressed this with different types of action that help to stop the spiral of violence. After all, we are not in the end, but with the initiatives that have been taken with the Financial Act, where, among other things, there are. ECU 7.5 million has been set aside for this purpose. kr. We are in the process of providing lasting support for Dialogue against Violence. Then we'll have to look at how we can move on. And since this proposal also contains a good amount of economics, we can have great sympathy for the proposal, but cannot support it, and we are referring to the financial legislation negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214104	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214107	I would also just like to sign and say that in the Free Greens we feel that this is so important that, of course, there is an economy for it and, of course, we find the money. That's how crucial it is for us. But fair enough. It should also be said that these two proposals are, of course, a re-submission of proposals which were to be made here in the Assembly Hall just before the corona went completely crazy in society, and then because of the corona they could not come along and then they did not materialize. So that, of course, is also part of the story here. So I just want to sign and thank you for sharing your intention. This will be kept up by the Free Greens in the next financial negotiations, and we would like to remind the Socialists that this is an area which, of course, must continue to be a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214205	Thank you. I am very pleased that there are more of us who are working hard to increase understanding and to increase the fight against violence. It has quite clearly shown that when you have such strong financial law parties that have gone in and changed the way of seeing things, both with the concrete measures, but also with what I mentioned when dealing with B 123, about police conciliation, about consent law, then there is just something all around with the way we see conditions, violence, commitments to which this government has made quite different during this reign. So the fact that the Free Greens will be involved in discussing this does, in fact, seem to me to be essential and important. So it's a good thing you're in there too, thanks for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214305	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214307	You're welcome. Then you must also welcome her the citizen, because she is absolutely right that, although we are this enlightened, open society, it is a taboo, because we do not really want to talk about it. Just as when I mention racism in this Chamber, it is a foul word, and we do not want to talk about it, this is also a subject that we are not really talking about. Violence in close relationships is still taboo, so it is quite true that the more we talk about it, the more we get normalized to talk about it, and the more we recognise it as a problem, the better. The proposal relates specifically to all victims of violence and perpetrators of violence, but it is no secret that it is a gender problem, in other words that it is particularly women who are subjected to violence. So it's important that we talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214349	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214351	We are really talking about something here. How can we, as a Parliament and as a country politician, help to be role models in talking about the nature of violence? One of the things that touches you is when you talk to women who tell you that when they look at their lives in retro perspective and think about when they really should have said "no," you can say that they are saying from every day; they are trying to protect their children, they are trying to make other decisions, and those women we must help so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214430	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, Mrs Maja Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214450	Thank you. Now it's not the first time I've been standing here, but it's the first day. After all, partner violence and violence in the family are a serious social problem, and when it is estimated that around 38 000 women and 19 000 men are subjected to physical partner violence every year, it also shows that this is a problem that we politicians should address. The figures have been mentioned earlier this evening by the rapporteur for the proposer, but they simply cannot be said enough times, because they are really thought-provokingly high figures. Violence has consequences for the throes, for security, for general health, for both those who are exposed to violence and for children who grow up in battered families. It is therefore also important that we help those who have already been victims of violence, but it is also important that we have a greater focus on prevention. This is important in order to tackle the problem of partner violence in relation to the extent it has, and it could, for example, solve the problem of partner violence. involves the treatment of those who have previously engaged in partner violence. In the Left we will not stand idly by when people in Denmark are subjected to violence or threats of violence. Violence is both humiliating and straines self - esteem. Violence is not just a physical or a mental act, it is intimidating, it is oppressive, and it is destructive. In other words, violence is devastating for the person who is exposed to it, for the family and for the children who experience it in the nearest teams, but children who grow up in families with violence are also victims of violence, even if they themselves have not been directly exposed to violence. In the Left, too, we basically agree with the authors that more can be done in this area. It is important that we, as a society, put in place and offer treatment to those who have used violence in families in the past. In this way one can help to minimise the risk of repetition of violent behaviour; the risk of that behavior being passed on from generation to generation. According to the proposers, funding must constitute a fixed appropriation in the budget law of 2022, and here again we in the Left have not yet taken a position on what we want to prioritise in the Finance Act. Because, as has already been said, there is a great deal of pressure on both the private and the public, especially now that the corona has devastated the last year. That is why it is too early to decide what the money is to be used for, because in the end it will be the well-being of all of us that will deteriorate if it is the case that we do not use our means with great care. So also in relation to this proposal, we in the Left are very much in agreement with the intention. We need to do something more in this area. We need to have it debated more in committee. And here too I should like to welcome the Conservative colleagues and say that, unfortunately, they cannot vote in favour either for the same reasons as the Left. So there is once again agreement that this is a very, very important area, but we need to look at funding. We look forward to the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214833	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214837	Thank you to the rapporteur. That's fair enough. I would just like to know if the rapporteur could imagine that the Left will be involved in writing out-patient treatment requirements into the Service Act as a separate paragraph. Is that something the Left wants to be involved in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214909	Once again, it is the funding that we need to look at here. Because it is written in as a clause in the Service Act, it is also financially binding in the future, and that is why we say in the Left that we should have looked at the Finance Act with a broader look, and from there we must then take what is to be given financial priority. However, we are not prepared to commit ourselves to any funds at this stage, which are binding in the years to come. But again: it is a very, very important area to debate. Let's talk about what can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214941	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406214947	Yeah, it's super important. Because the proposal here started with, when I had to draw up it, that it was too violent. Then I realized that the same perpetrator sends more women to the same perpetrator sending more women to the shelter. That's why this is at least as important. So thank you for your statement and, as I also said to the other rapporteurs, the Free Greens will help to remember that this is important at the next budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406215021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406215026	I very much agree that it is important to look at the perpetrators as well. Because it is quite right that the same perpetrator can send more women to a shelter. After all, the same perpetrator continues to have the same problem with his behavior if no aid is given to him or her. That is why it is really, really important in terms of breaking the social heritage that we should also look at the person who is exercising the violence. So I totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406215049	So thank you for that. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406215118	Thank you. The proposal concerns the right to outpatient treatment for perpetrators and the right to require the government to make legislative proposals during the current parliamentary year guaranteeing the right to outpatient treatment for adults who have exposed others to violence or threats of violence in relation to family or social relationships. It is not possible to table a bill in the current parliamentary year. We in the Danish Parliament have taken a number of initiatives to help perpetrators of violence. We have, for example. granted permanent funds to the Danish Stalking Center, which offers assistance to stalkers. We fought for this in the Danish People's Party, so we could be sure that their efforts continued. In addition, there is the Slip Violence, which is a telephone counselling service for those who want to work actively to act differently and get out of the violence. You can call them 24 hours a day. They have a waiting time, though. Dialogue against Violence has since 2002 offered psychotherapy to practitioners of violence in close relationships and their families. In 2017, VIVE assessed their treatment as the most promising practice in Denmark when it comes to children and young people who have been subjected to abuse. The Social Protection Agency concluded in 2011 that Dialog Against Violence's efforts contribute significantly to reducing the use of physical and psychological violence among clients. It has been documented nationally as well as internationally that childhood with violence is the greatest risk factor for becoming an adult of violence. Violence in close relationships most often has major psychological, physical and social consequences for the victim of violence and for children who grow up with domestic violence. Early preventive action against violence in close relationships can reduce the consequences of violence and ensure that perpetrators of violence receive the right help and support for a life without violence. In Lev Without Violence, they contribute general knowledge of the various forms of violence to professionals who can face violence, perpetrators or relatives in their daily work. Seventy-four percent. of the approx. 1,700 perpetrators of violence who have conducted treatment in the Dialogue against Violence have themselves grown up in a home of violence. If we are to break the negative pattern, it is necessary to take action in relation to violent behavior. The prerequisite for combating negative social inheritance and ensuring children a childhood free from violence is to stop the violence where it starts with the practitioner. As with the previous proposal, I think that it makes good sense to follow up on the action plan against violence before the funds expire in 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406215416	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and then we move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Kathrine Oldag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406215439	Thank you very much, President. I actually think that, as has been said, at least on my side, what should be said in the first place. So here in the second round I will concentrate on what I had actually gotten into town, namely a greeting from Henrik Vinther, who is the rapporteur in this area. Again, we are grateful for the proposal, because the other side of the violence is just as important to have a look at and dealt with as it is from the victims' perspective. For violence destroys lives, both for those who are subjected to violence, for those who are witnesses to and must live in violence, and for those who practice violence. That is why we in the Radical Left are, from the outset, in favour of the proposal by the Free Greens to look wider in this area and to act quickly and to ensure rapid help in relation to violence and the damage it causes to people. That is why, as I said before, we welcome last year's financial law agreement. There's plenty of it going on tonight, so I'm not going to unfold it anymore. We're just as proud of it as anyone else who helped make it. It stepped up its efforts both in relation to the perpetrators of violence and the perpetrators of violence, and there was a new boost with the negotiations on the reserve that took place shortly before Christmas. There is still a need to focus on the consequences of violence and, most recently, we have seen that there is a long wait for help to be given to perpetrators of violence who, on their own initiative, are seeking help. That is why we look forward to discussing the proposals of the Free Greens when we discuss finance law later this year, but here and now we cannot support the proposal, because it requires funding and is therefore financial law just like the previous proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406215619	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406215634	Thank you. I would like to start by welcoming from the SF's rapporteur, who is concerned with very important deeds, and I would also like to say that we have already mentioned many of the general problems mentioned in the previous debate on an almost identical proposal on the right to outpatient treatment for the victims of violence. Now it's about the right to outpatient treatment for rapists. I think it is good and important that we take that discussion too. There is too much tendency in the political debate and in the Parliamentary Assembly to discuss the perpetrators of violence or those who commit some form of crime for that matter, as some who can be punished or threatened with punishment to stop it, and a tendency to focus exclusively on the victims. However, if we want to put an end to violence, we need to go a little more adult in some way, and that means treating people who commit violence and helping them to release violence. Because, as a former rapporteur has also said, a great deal of the violence that is being committed is driven by a lack of tools to communicate in other ways. And for many, this is something you have learned as a child from your parents, namely that this is how you could talk to other people, in other words through violence. So I have exactly the same attitude to this proposal as to the previous one we were discussing. I remember in detail something that will be a little extra story here: I do not know how many people are following today, but if someone is doing, I can say that they do not necessarily know that when you sit in such a budget debate you have many sketches; it is simply such a small list of everything you want to do. Then there's some money on the side, and then there's something on the bottom line. It has to vote, and that is the perverse thing about it, because we all have more proposals than there is money, and that is also the situation that the proposer is facing today. But what happens then sometimes you can sit and talk a lot about all the things you want to do is get a new version of this so-called sketch, where you discover that you have been granted an admission. And I just want to say that I can remember just as clearly, both when the 75 million. kr. in crisis centre places, where it was about 2 a.m., suddenly stood on a sketch in the Finance Act negotiations, the first we made and when Dialogue against Violence suddenly appeared on the sketch from last year's Finance Law negotiations with a permanent grant. It was one of those moments that you so remember and think: there we got the son of a bitch you can't swear. This is the kind of moment I hope I will take with me, because it actually means something to a lot of people. The reason I'm telling the story is because I know I wasn't the only one inside that negotiating room, because I actually sat with some people from some other parties who felt exactly the same way. Even the cashier, the finance minister himself, thought, I think, that it was one of the greater concessions to make inside the negotiating room. And when I say it, yes, I say it, both because it is a good story, but also because I want to stress that we actually believe that this is an important area. We will continue to talk about this in the future, and we cannot at all deny that it will come up in financial law negotiations. But if things are to become reality beyond a motion for a resolution, we must get in and find the money for it. So thank you for the suggestion. I hope that we will have a moment like the one I mentioned again in connection with the next Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406220048	Thank you for that and thank you for the story. We get the alcohol off, and then we jump back a little in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406220113	Thank you. I'm just going to the other side of the plexiglass. I have had the pleasure of listening to the debate on both this resolution and the previous one. And I would just like to thank the Enhedslisten's rapporteur both for wishing to greet me, but also just express my thanks to the Free Greens for having tabled this motion for a resolution. This is an issue that I and the SF have been concerned with for a very long time, and we are just as proud, as has been said, of the fact that we have taken some important steps with the latest financial laws and other agreements. Both in terms of giving more money to areas, but also in terms of perpetuating some of the means which, in fact, have created a very unstable existence for the really good offers we have, both for violent but also for perpetrators of violence. For social contributions, which only have a temporary appropriation, have a slightly uncertain life, and will therefore also be something where there is a risk that there will then be no offers. Breaking violence and ending violence require effort, both for the perpetrators of violence and for the perpetrators of violence, which are often the children. And I really do not think we can succeed in ending the violence if we do not invest in all three parts. And that has also been said by several rapporteurs, but I just want to say that our work in the SF with the area of violence does not end with these agreements. It will be something we will be following very closely, and there will be those offers when you reach out for help. And there must also be the outspoken things and that is some of what the Free Greens in any case also describe in this motion for a resolution, i.e. that it is important that there is an outspoken effort. Because equally difficult it may be to reach out when you are violent, just as difficult it may be to recognise that you have a problem to work with, and it can be very shameful to be a violent person. So we are very much in agreement with intention and I have also listened to the argument that it should be financed. That is also our argument for not being able to fully support this, but we support the intention, and then we will work to ensure that it becomes a reality in the places where it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406220354	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and since there are no more rapporteurs from the parties who have asked to speak, it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406220411	Thank you, it is a pleasure to see the President again. Welcome back. President. - Thank you very much. A pandemic in the pandemic has been called violence in the homes and in close relationships, for under the corona violence has increased. More are beaten, kicked and killed in their own homes, in front of the children, in the kitchen over the pots or in the bedroom, in the hallway or in the living room, over the candy bowl Friday evening. It is simply not enough to bear, and we must have done something about it now and not tomorrow. We, as politicians, simply cannot witness this happening on our watch. This is certainly not going to happen on my watch, and I will fight with everything I have to put an end to the violence. Violence in close relationships has major consequences for the vulnerable and society as a whole. While, of course, measures to help the victims of violence are crucial, we can only stop the violence by making targeted efforts for the perpetrators, because we must stop the violence where it starts. According to Dialog Against Violence, which is the only nationwide treatment offer for perpetrators in Denmark, there is a tendency to believe that being a violent person is unchangeable, a tendency to believe that once a violent person is always a violent person. But for the vast majority, there is a reason why violence is being carried out. For many it is the shadows of childhood that reach into adulthood. For studies, 71 per cent. of the practitioners who have been treated by Dialogue Against Violence have themselves grown up in a home of violence. Many have simply not learned from infancy to control their violent behavior. They need help to learn, and most can learn it. Studies also show that treatment of perpetrators has a positive effect and that it is possible to stop violence. In 2020, Dialogue against Violence could conclude that 82 per cent. of the practitioners who have been treated say that they have not committed violence after the end of treatment. This shows that the violence of the majority of practitioners receiving help is changeable and can be stopped. At the same time, however, studies show that, if we are to reduce the number of children from battered families who themselves become practitioners or are subjected to violence in adulthood, systematic detection and early action are needed, and this is precisely what underlines the topicality of our proposal here today. That is why we in the Green Group believe that, as well as the right of the victims of violence to outpatient treatment, the right of the perpetrators to outpatient treatment must also be enshrined in the law. Because by doing so we will achieve far more than we do today, and that is crucial. Today we have too long waiting lists and too few offers. Although the additional appropriations allocated to the area over the last few years have made a difference to the waiting lists and capacity, that is still not enough and we have not yet seen the full consequence of the closure of the corona. In the Free Greens, we believe that one single violent family is one too much and that one day on the waiting list is one day too much. Because violence does not end simply because you are on a waiting list. I hear that I have your support for the proposal and, as a large majority in the Danish Parliament, will continue to fight for in the financial law negotiations. So I'd like to sign and thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406220816	There are no brief comments, which is why we thank you. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210406220831	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 7 April 2021, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
