ParlaMint-DK_20211216100005	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Sikandar Siddique (FG) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. 58 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the preparation of a national action plan against racism and discrimination). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I would like to point out that today, but also in the coming week, Tuesday and Wednesday, we have quite a lot of votes, which is why we have to spend a lot of time in this Chamber. Before we start the first item on the agenda, I would like to call on colleagues to show the necessary consideration, get their spirits off and keep their distance, even when we go out and into the Chamber, and that also applies when we are in the meeting rooms around us. We just have to say that there is a situation of increasing infection, and here too we must take account of each other. Finally, I would like to point out that we have the opportunity to take a test. I ask you to take advantage of that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100106	The item entered as item 15 on the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100118	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100135	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 100 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, FG, ALT and KD), against 2 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100205	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100220	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 101 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and KD) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100242	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100257	Thank you. The clock up here doesn't work. What does the passport say if you come from Palestine? To date, Israel and the Middle East have had to appear, but never Palestine or the West Bank or Gaza or East Jerusalem. On 18.4.2016, the Minister of Justice at the time was given a seat right over here on the right, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen wrote a letter about whether or not we could change it so that those people were allowed to write where they were born. He couldn't find out. Then we had to call for consultation. He couldn't find out there either. He thought it was problematic that we changed it because it was a security issue. Then we had to explain to him that security doesn't depend on where you were born, but it depends on eyeiris or fingerprints or social security number. He became our answer guilty. In a number of other countries, we examined whether the same attitude was also taken and that was not the case. Well, then we had to have another consultation, but the Minister could not answer us if we could have it changed and there were no arguments. He laughed a little bit and wondered if we could look at him, that no, I can't figure this out, but I won't vote for or solve the problem. The Minister for the Interior must do that, he said. Then we asked the Minister of the Interior. He said no, the Minister of Transport must do so, because driving licences are the responsibility of the Minister of Transport. This is how we enjoyed ourselves until 2017, the 30.11., where we had a consultation with three bourgeois ministers who could not find out who was responsible; could not find out that there were no security issues anymore; and could not find out to say that yes, we are doing that right in a jiffy, because we can easily fix that quickly. On the contrary, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen that there was something with the Dutch Parliament. Then we checked it out. And there it turned out that they said that people have to decide for themselves if they can prove where they were born. That's how time goes. We took a paragraph 20 question, and we even took a motion for a resolution on 25.4.2019 into the Chamber, where Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and the company foolishly maintained a position that did not have a single argument behind it. Well, time passes, and then we get a new government. And there I would like to thank the Justice Mister so that we could have a cooperation that quickly and effectively solved this problem. And that's what we're about to vote on. It was rational and sensible. He said there's no problem with that. I can see that it's completely out in the woods not to say okay to that. I would also like to thank you for a five-and-a-half-year cooperation with Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist on this case. There may be little for some. But try to think about it for yourself. One is told that there must not be Palestine in one's passport if one is born before 1948, because there must be Israel and what feeling was it? There was no state called Israel until 1948 when the person was born. How illogical can politics really be? How much can we do in here and waste each other's time because of lack of arguments and because of stupidity? I don't know, but this case has taken incredibly many hours of my time. I think it is important that we also deal with such matters. I think it is important that those people are also shown respect when they are not born in Israel. They feel humiliating. I am thinking of the fact that if anyone in my family who was born during the occupation had to have Germany in their passports, that would be quite, quite obscene. All other comparisons oddly then it would be quite obscene. That is why I think it is a great day because of this small change. The Palestinians, if you vote for this proposal, can now decide for themselves whether they want Palestine, the West Bank, Gaza or East Jerusalem in their passports if they can prove that they are born there. I hope that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and his bourgeois friends have overcome the situation and now show ordinary bourgeois decency and vote in favour of the proposal. Otherwise, I do not understand what is the background to the bourgeois policy on this issue. But thank you for your grief and congratulations to the Palestinians and thank you to the Minister for Justice and thank you to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. It's been an exciting journey. Isn't that what you say in modern Danish? Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100744	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl even though there was also some direct indictment along the way. We say thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100754	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes the vote. In favour of voting 59 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and KD), against voting 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100824	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100839	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 103 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and KD) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100902	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100921	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and KD) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216100945	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101000	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and KD) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101021	No amendments have been tabled Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101037	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 101 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and KD) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101100	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101114	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 94 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and KD) voted against 0, abstentions 8 (EL). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101139	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101151	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 99 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and KD), against 2 (FG), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101214	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101239	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 66 (S, DF, SF, RV, EL, ALT and KD), against 36 (V, KF, NB, LA and FG), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101303	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101317	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 66 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF (by mistake), LA, FG and ALT) voted against 11 (DF and NB), abstained 25 (V, KD). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101350	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101407	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-10, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101422	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101439	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (FG). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 50 (by mistake), SF, EL, FG and ALT) voted against 52 (V, DF, RV, KF, NB, LA and KD), abstained 0. Amendment No. 3 is rejected. Amendments. No. 1 and 2 have been replaced and joined by the same minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101524	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101539	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2, by a minority (EL), elected by a minority (RV and FG), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 27 votes (by mistake), RV, EL, FG, ALT and 3 DF (by mistake)), against 74 abstentions (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA, KD and 3 (SF)). Amendment No. 2 is rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1 and 3, in the case of the same minorities, shall cease to exist. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101630	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left, does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101655	Thank you for that, President. After today's votes on the amendments to L 84, the Left wishes to refer the new legislative proposals, L 84 A and L 84 B, back to committee. The Left can support today's amendments, but we want to see an evaluation of those parts of the legislative proposals which contain both substantial and fundamental changes in the current legal situation and patients' rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101729	Thank you. I just want to say that we have a lot to keep track of up here right now, so if you have voted incorrectly, it can be done by the end of the votes. Otherwise, it'll be a little too confusing for us. Jane Heitmann was up asking for the legislative proposals to be referred back to committee, and I will come back to that at the end of this. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216101849	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (SF and EL), joined by a majority (S, V, DF, RV, KF and FG), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Draft law amending the law on the use of coercion in psychiatry, etc. and the Health Act. B. Draft law amending the law on the use of coercion in psychiatry, etc. and the Health Act. We shall then vote on the proposal for a directive referred to in A. 2 by a minority (SF and EL), elected by a majority (S, V, DF, RV, KF and FG), or on Amendment No. 2 by a minority (SF and EL), or on Amendment No. 2 by a majority (S, V, DF, RV, KF and FG). 3 and 4, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of NB and LA)? They are adopted. We shall then vote on the draft budget referred to in B: Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V and CF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 39 (V, DF, KF and KD), against 62 (S, SF, RV, EL, NB, LA, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 6 and 7, tabled and joined by the same minority as rejected. It has been rejected. It has been proposed that both legislative proposals should be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216102009	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216102029	Thank you for the floor. The Danish People's Party has tabled two amendments to L 56. With these two amendments, the Danish People's Party wishes to remove all about 530 people from the Islamic group of countries, i.e. from Middle Eastern and North African countries plus Pakistan and Turkey, the so-called MENAPT countries, in order to subsequently put these people on another legislative proposal, so that it can be clarified which parties vote to give citizenship to citizens of MENAPT countries and which parties vote against. The Danish People's Party will vote against because we want to avoid Denmark being Islamised, and it will of course be Denmark if a very large proportion of the country's citizens have an Islamic culture. However, we would also like to have more detailed treatment and more information about the people from the MEAPT countries, for example. We would like information on whether there are persecuted Christians among them, because we do not want to vote against them. In treating them as a special group, we can also go deeper into the behavior of people, and there are among those who are included in the amendments we have tabled, those who have committed a number of crimes, which are of a nature that does not exclude them from citizenship according to the circular, yet have committed so much that it may seem strange that they have not been granted temporary exclusion, that is to say. a career period from Danish citizenship. It is the Conservative People's Party that has drawn our attention to the fact that there are people with this kind of behavior in the group of MENAPT citizens who are on the current proposal on the communication of citizenship. That is why we would urge the Conservative People's Party to vote in favour of our amendments so that we can give this particular group more detailed consideration and decide whether or not we, among other things, should. really wants a stronger Islamisation of Denmark and to give citizenship to people who have committed more criminal things. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216102253	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216102308	Thank you, President. First of all, I should like to congratulate those women, men and children who have actually met all these difficult demands and have now come to the bill on citizenship. And I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the new agreement on citizenship concluded here before the summer holidays between the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and the government clearly shows that the bill is being split up. It is shocking in itself that it is the parties mentioned here, namely the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, as well as the government that has agreed in the agreement, and I quote: "The government undertakes with the agreement to indicate in future draft legislation on the communication of citizenship of the applicant in the light of the nationality of the applicants in the Nordic countries, other Western countries, MENAP countries and Turkey and other non-western countries. • The information has been disclosed in the notifications of previous citizenship, so that it is the actual requirement for grouping that has been established in the agreement on citizenship. After all, we have all known that the agreement is a launch ramp for a possible amendment on the division of the draft law on citizenship, which we can see here today by the fact that the Danish People's Party has tabled. We have also all shown that the question now is whether there is a majority in the Folketing in favour of voting down a disgraced bill with the list of authorised citizens who come from Muslim countries. And I would also like to highlight Article 5 of the Convention on Civil Liberties. It follows that: • the rules of a Contracting State relating to national law must not contain differences or include practices which result in discrimination on grounds of sex, religion, race, colour, national or ethnic origin. The question arises as to whether the agreement concluded here is in fact contrary to Article 5 of the Convention on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. The Ministry's lawyers have then considered that the State may incur liability by dividing up the bill on the notification of citizenship by country or region. This is provided that a majority consistently votes against the draft law including applicants from MENAP countries or Turkey. Then these people will be able to raise a claim for damages against Denmark in order to act in breach of Denmark's international obligations. Radicals are appalled by the division provided for in the agreement on citizenship. We are shocked by the amendment on the separation of approved applicants from MENAP countries or Turkey. However, in Radicals, we will continue to work to ensure that we respect the rule of law and conventions and to ensure that we do not bother taxpayers with having to pay compensation through the common fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216102645	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216102701	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB), and the amendment can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 11 (DF and NB), against 91 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and KD), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3, adopted by a majority (S, V, DF, KF and NB), or on Amendment No. 4 and 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6, tabled by a minority (DF) and joined by a minority (NB) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 11 (DF and NB), against 91 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and KD), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7-9, elected by the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216102814	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216102832	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216102847	The Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply has informed me that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 8-11 of the report back. Does anyone wish to accept these amendments? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216102918	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, adopted by the Committee, or on amendments No. 1-7, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 1-7) for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216102938	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103004	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103019	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the CF) that the draft law should be divided into two? The division of the legislative proposal into two has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the CF)? They are adopted. The draft law referred to in B shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4 and 5, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the CF)? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law referred to under A should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. It has been proposed that the draft law referred to in B be referred back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103107	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103125	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (LA and NB) that the bill is divided into two. And a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 20 (DF, EL, NB and FG), against 81 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, LA, ALT and KD), abstentions 0. The division of the legislative proposal into two has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 to this bill lapsed. Amendments to the undivided legislative proposal shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Amendment No 3 was adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL). 10 outside the report by the Minister for Taxation, on Amendment No 10. Amendment No 4 was adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL). 11 outside the report by the Minister for Taxation, on Amendment No 11. 5, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL), on Amendment No 5, on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. 12 outside the report by the Minister for Taxation or on Amendment No 12. 6-9, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103244	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103307	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (KF), elected by a majority (the other committee), that the bill is divided into two? Thus, the division of the legislative proposal into two has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-4 of a minority (KF), elected by a majority (other committees)? They are adopted. The draft law referred to in B shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5 and 6 members of the Committee? They are adopted. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 7 of a minority (LA), joined by a minority (V, DF and NB). Amendment No 5 is admissible. 7. The vote will end. In favour of 36 votes (V, DF, NB and LA), against 65 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and KD), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8 and 9, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 11 of a minority (LA), joined by a minority (V, DF and NB). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 37 (V, DF, NB and LA), against 64 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 10, replaced and acceded by the same majority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 12, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103519	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103531	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, NB and LA). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 44 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA and KD), against 58 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 5 and 6, tabled and joined by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, joined by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103618	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103631	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103644	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103703	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (KF), joined by a minority (V, NB and LA), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 34 (V, KF, NB and LA), against 66 (S, DF, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. The division of the bill has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 to the split bill lapsed. Amendments to the undivided legislative proposal shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Amendment No 3, adopted by a majority (S, SF, RV, EL and FG) 4 or on Amendment No 4, adopted by a majority (S, DF, SF and RV) or by a majority (S, DF, SF and RV) 5-8, elected by a majority (S, SF, RV, EL and FG)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103807	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As it has not fallen, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103829	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216103844	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of NB) that the draft law is divided into two legislative proposals? Draft law amending the Act on Active Employment and the Law on Organisation and Support for Employment, etc. B. Proposal for a law amending the Act on active employment and sickness benefit (Rethinking employment efforts and conversations over video or telephone)] Sharing the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. We shall then vote on the proposal for a directive referred to in A. 2-4, to be elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. There are no more votes, so those who do not wish to take part in the negotiations are asked to leave the Chamber at a good distance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104024	The debate is open. Sir. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104039	Thank you, President. It is the case that the hospital is under pressure. We have all noticed that and it has been felt so much out there that the covid-19 has soon been a companion in society for two years. Unfortunately, this is a pressure that hardly relieves winter. Therefore, on 5 December 2021, the government and a number of parties concluded a partial agreement on a Coronavinter package for the hospital service. As part of that agreement, we have agreed to extend the possibility for pensioners and their spouses or couples to contribute to the fight against corona without being faced with an economic consequence of offsetting the pension. That's the part of the agreement we're about to implement with this bill. I know that during the debate with the Prime Minister here on Tuesday there was a question of early retirement, and what about it? Why isn't it part of this? I would just like to say that this is being dealt with and discussed. However, it is also a question of two different regimes in which these arrangements may be administered. But we'll look into it. The scheme must increase the incentive for pensioners or their spouses or couples to contribute to the fight against corona, because we now think it is clear to everyone that we are missing hands out there. Therefore, it does not of course make sense to maintain a system whereby set-off in the pension is to prevent any of you from contributing, because we kind of need you. The draft law therefore proposes to continue the present system, which applies to pensioners, senior pensioners and early retirement pensioners alike. And it is proposed that the scheme be extended to cover the whole of next year. Of course, we support this on the part of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104248	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104253	Thank you. The rapporteur referred to this in terms of early retirement; it is of course two different regimes, but it has the same effect. Today it is the case that when you are on early retirement and want to make an extra effort, it is offset in early retirement; there are a certain number of hours you are allowed to work and then you are set off in retirement. If you relieve all the extra effort that you make from corona, it may be nurses, it may be health assistants, it may be Falck people, or what do I know, who take an extra wage for set-off in the early retirement, while all other normal work is set off, then I think you can do it in a proper way. Is it the case that the Social Democratic Party will be involved in tabling an amendment in which it will then come in? I think we can take it in, even though the rapporteur says it should be in a different context; it is a matter of will.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104353	I wouldn't dare say that on a stand-by basis. Now I'm looking down at the minister because I know there's a lot of technicalities associated with this so if it's practically possible I don't know. I mean, if it can, of course I have no problem with it, but I have to be sure in some way that it is an option. As I mentioned at the outset, we are taking in this about the post-retirement pay. Whether it is to be included in this proposal or whether there is to be a special proposal, I cannot answer on a stand-by basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104418	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104419	Well, thank you. I fully understand that the rapporteur cannot say yes to this now, and that is why we are also taking it with the Minister for Employment. Because it should be that this would help to give extra hands. There are many who are on early retirement who have asked if they can also help and make an extra effort here, when they know that the whole system is under pressure, and when we have some who are on early retirement who really want to give an extra hand. It should be a political solution, but I'll take it right with the Minister for Employment. However, I understand that the rapporteur for the Socialist Group is certainly not opposed to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104455	That is quite correct, sir. Bent Bøgsted, and I therefore agree with the recitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104459	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104502	Thank you. I appreciate very much that the Social Democratic Party is in favour of a solution in this area, and I see little other option than to make an amendment to this bill, even though it concerns other legislation, a one to which this bill relates, because the substance is the same. This is not usually an obstacle to putting all sorts of things together and it can be done as an amendment. So I do not see any justification for not getting this done. In other words, we are in the process of urgent legislation and we have a week to get it adopted and it must be possible to do so. It takes a little extra work, I have no doubt. But I would like to ask: if it is tabled as an amendment, will the Social Democrats vote in favour of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104548	Well, I think I'm gonna rely on the answer I gave before to mr. Bent Bøgsted, and it was that if under some circumstances it is an option, I do not see that there would necessarily be problems with it. But I will have to refer to the Minister, who is in relation to the Ministry and the technicalities that may be involved in it. But, as I said, it is not political dislike; it is a question of how we can do this in the right way in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104616	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb? Thank you. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur, because there are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104629	The Corona is once again part of our everyday life and society, and fortunately more and more people are being vaccinated with the third plug these days. The Left tabled back in February 2020 a resolution very similar to this bill that we are dealing with today. We did so on the basis of a series of stories that told us about a tax spank for those people who, in the extraordinary situation, went in and made an extra effort. After all, many nurses, social and health workers, ambulance workers are taking an extra turn, even these days, and they deserve a thank you, not a punishment. Denmark is also now facing an increasing level of infection, and we continue to rely on skilled professionals in both the private and the public sectors to help us through this corona crisis. At that time, we found a need to go in and change the rules, among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is because the Prime Minister was out to say that there were only individual cases. That's not true. Compared to this bill that we have before us today, it is estimated that at least 500 people will be covered by this rule. It could be many, many more. That is why we do not think that it is right for the pension to be set off if your spouse makes an extra effort. Against this background, the Left will vote in favour of the bill and we expect that we will also be able to find a solution for people on early retirement. We are in an extraordinary situation, and I agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that, in substance, this is the same issue, which is why I also expect that we can very, very quickly come together to deal with people who are on early retirement and who would also like to contribute, for example, to vaccinate or to graft, and that is also crucial in this situation. So we on the Left would like to say that we will take a positive view of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104855	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104857	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen for that comment, but that means that the Minister for Employment can already relate to the fact that there is a majority who would like to give pensioners the right to make an extra effort in connection with the covid-19. I understand that the Social Democratic Party is involved in the fact that the Danish People's Party is involved, and I also understand that the Enhedslisten is a member of it. They're the ones we've heard from now. Then it's just the minister who might have to pull himself together to say: let's get this in right away. It is the Left ready to support, just as the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten are, and the Social Democracy is probably also ready to support it. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104933	Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216104934	I think, in fact, that when we have finished the legislative procedure here, the Minister will run into the Ministry and hurry to make an amendment so that we can address this challenge. Because it is crucial that we can get as many people as possible to help us through the crisis. There is a lack of hands and heads out there, so I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105002	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Hans Andersen. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105025	Thank you for that, President. It is a little uplifting here with this proposal, because there are already positive indications about the early retirement. After all, we in the Danish People's Party think it is very good that this scheme should be extended. I had just missed that the government might have made contact with the circle that introduced the scheme in February 2021, because it was another circle. It was the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the New Citizens' Party that made that agreement in 2021. Then the government will take it in here in the Finance Act and say, "Now we do something." It would have been appropriate if the Minister had perhaps just contacted the group behind the scheme from spring 2021, but we should not be separated, because the Danish People's Party would like to be involved in extending the scheme, and we would have done so, whether or not the Minister had approached the circle there. I hope that the Minister will accept the statements made by those who are on early retirement, because there are many who are reasonably healthy and who would like to make an extra effort, and a great many pensioners have asked whether they too can make an effort without being set off against it. It is not, of course, the case that you have to change the rules of early retirement for this, but just allow those who are on early retirement for it, so if they make an extra effort that is corona-related, the salary they earn will not be set off anywhere in the early retirement. It will be commendable, and it will provide a much greater supply of work and provide extra help in places where you are under pressure, in hospitals and where it may now be, in the handling of corona. There will be a need for this, and there are a lot of people who would like to make an extra effort. I hope that the Minister will accept it and, as Hans Andersen, the Left, said, the Minister will hurry over to the Ministry of Employment and say: I have the support to have an amendment tabled here. There is broad support so far, and I wonder if there are any more parties who have not said anything yet to support the idea that we should have an amendment in relation to early retirement. But in any case, we have positive statements from the Social Democratic Party, from the Left, from the Danish People's Party, and Mrs Jette Gottlieb, the Enhedslisten, will probably also talk about this in the platform, and will it not be the case with others, so the Minister will just have it done as soon as possible? The Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105258	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Bent Bøgsted. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105317	The opposite of the partner's wage income in the pension is an unfairness in general. Then we have got a fence in here where we have created a little more fairness, namely in the situations where the partner works in corona-related work. That is why, of course, we in the SF are pleased that the scheme can now be extended. We can hope that in the negotiations that run in parallel on Denmark more can be achieved by the general abolition of the set-off of the partner's wage income. I would just like to say that, in relation to pensioners, the SF already raised the matter on Tuesday. The President of the SF, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, raised it with the Prime Minister and stated on Tuesday that, of course, SF believes that the offsetting of the early retirement should also be abolished in these situations. The SF may support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105415	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105430	Thank you very much, President. There is a need for all good powers in the fight against corona, and it is not fair that one is set off because one's spouse makes an extra effort to get rid of the coronasmite once again in Denmark. We want to extend this scheme so that the Radical Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105455	Thank you to Mrs Samira Nawa. This means that we move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105510	Thank you. The pressure on the hospital is a reality. We all know this, and in order to help the pressure, the opportunity to make an extra effort is made easier here. The system already in place expires at the end of the year, which is why this proposal is intended to extend the scheme. With this change, we're actually creating a new normal, because it's gonna be for the whole next year. That is actually very good, because it concerns the more fundamental question of whether the interdependence of spouses is a good idea. We do not think so in the Enhedslisten; we are in principle opposed to this interdependence. We are therefore quite ready to use the experience we have in this area to achieve the permanent abolition of set-off, and not only when it is handy in various situations to do so for various reasons. So we look forward to having experience from this that leads to the permanent abolition of set-off. I will not table amendments on this. Having said that, I also say that we support the extension of the system, and we are very keen to have an amendment tabled which could lead to it being completely consistent also applying to pensioners. And then I would like to say that there are, of course, various small bureaucratic legholds in this scheme, for example. that you will not actually get the money until two years after you have made the extra effort and that you can apply for it yourself. This requires getting inside the bureaucracy, and it requires understanding the arrangements and knowing exactly when to report and all that. It's not good, but that's what happens when we make emergency laws. The Enhedslisten supports this proposal and looks forward to the amendment from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105721	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Then we can move on to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105728	Thank you very much. We're not gonna be threshing on this, either. After all, we are pleased with all the people who can and will make an extra effort every day to ensure that our citizens in Denmark are vaccinated. We are very pleased about this, and there is no doubt that we support the extension of the possibility of this arrangement. At the same time, of course, we would like to see early-retirers included. We could all read Clara Jermiin Kiersgaard Olesen's article in Politiken yesterday, where an ex-retirer, Anna-Lisse, gets 71 DKK de facto. I mean, it's an hour after everything's off, and that's not fair. So we support the proposal and, as I have said, we would like to see early-retirers included in the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105809	Thank you to the rapporteur. Here we go, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105823	Thank you. I shall also be very brief. We can support the proposal. We were also in the original agreement. We think it is good that these set-offs are removed and we would like them to be removed in general. I have a question, and it may be that the Minister can answer it when he gets on the platform. Arnepensionen will enter into force here on 1 January with payment from there. There are a number of pensioners, including health care workers, who are going to Arnepensionen perhaps here from the 1st, and are they also covered by this set-off, or how have you thought it? So this is just a question for the Minister now, and if the Minister answers here, we are free from having to have it in committee. And if those pensioners are not included, I think it would be sensible to include them too, so that we get as much labour out of work as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105910	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216105917	We will not vote in favour of the legislative proposal, just as we did not vote in favour of the legislative proposal when it was originally introduced. We are in favour of the principle that a family can be seen as an economic unit in which spouses support each other. This means that if one spouse does not earn much money, the other spouse can use the person's personal allowance. This also means that if one spouse earns a great deal of money, the other cannot go down and apply for public subsidies for the maintenance of life. We are not in favour of families with high incomes from one spouse also being able to go to the municipality and receive a subsidy from the taxpayer to the other spouse. It is the general principle, and a majority in the Folketing is in favour of this general principle. There is then also a majority in the Folketing that wants to abolish the general principle when spouses work in corona-related industries. We are not in favour of this. We cannot understand why that difference should be made. We do not understand why corona work should be a separate fine work, which means that one can be exempted from having to support one another in the family before going down and applying for money from the public sector. So we are voting against the extension of a system that we also voted against when it was introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110047	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110106	It is now very true, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says, on the principle. But now we have decided that this is a social-critical disease, and with this in mind we will support the bill, with the support of what the Conservative People's Party has said here in the Parliament's speaking chair, that it is in fact also thought that the pre-retirement wages should be included. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110134	There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110139	I would just like to say that a majority in the Folketing has agreed that corona is a social-critical disease, despite the fact that the majority of the population have been vaccinated and that, for that reason, there are not very many hospitalised people and therefore it should not be classified as a social-critical disease. The Liberal Alliance has voted against it and can therefore vote with peace of mind against treating working with corona as if it were something very special in terms of offsetting rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110211	Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110213	That is the great thing about the Liberal Alliance: whether you agree with or disagree with the resolutions and votes that are, there is always consistency and logical rigour in the arguments put forward by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Ole Birk Olesen. So I'd just like to sign for that. It was certainly not a criticism either. We have helped to say yes to the fact that it is a social-critical disease, and it is up to us to take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110243	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110302	Thank you very much for the floor, President. And thank you to the rapporteurs. First of all, I would like to thank all parties for the support that I can listen to there for this bill. As several speakers have said, the draft law here extends the possibility for pensioners and their spouses or couples to contribute to the fight against covid-19 without their additional income being set off against the pension. If we extend the system, it is because we continue to see a great deal of pressure on, among other things. health care, a pressure which we unfortunately expect will continue over the winter. The aim of the scheme is to increase the incentive to take an extra wage on the labour market, and of course not least if you work in the health sector. There are a lot of people who have already taken extra shifts in the fight against covid-19, and that has made an important difference, and so we still need that. The government and the other parties behind the agreement recognise that we are in an extraordinary situation where we need all the good forces in the fight against corona. It is therefore important that there are no economic consequences preventing citizens from helping in this important matter. The bill continues the current scheme and applies to all early, senior and folk pensioners and their spouse or partner if they have had additional income related to the handling of covid-19. The bill removes the set-off for covid-19-related extra work for the whole 2022. And in order to avoid the set-off, all pensioners who until now have to report the additional income to Payout Denmark, which regulates the pension accordingly. A few questions have then been raised here during the debate. Firstly, can the existing system be extended to pensioners? On behalf of the government, I would just like to say that we look at this very positively, and I have sent orders to investigate how it can be implemented, if necessary, and what is of particular importance, namely what additional costs other than those laid down in the draft law would be. In view of this, I expect that, of course, at second reading, we can have a joint discussion on it. Secondly, Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's side was raised the question of recipients of early retirement benefits. There I would just like to say briefly that already when the scheme was set up, it was decided that early pension recipients, unlike a number of other pension benefits, are not covered by spouse dependency. Therefore, there is no need to take a separate position in this scheme. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110543	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110547	I think it is a good thing that the Minister will go over and look at it with pensioners, because it is really a shame when there are many pensioners who would like to make an effort, but if they do, it will be set off against their early retirement. If we can stop this, it's great. There is broad support for this, because almost all parties in the Folketing, including the Minister's own party, think that it is a good thing for pensioners that they can make an effort. So I hope that the Minister will come up with a very good amendment so that we can allow pensioners to make an extra effort in this coronatide. It's only that long it's needed because of this corona. It's not all sorts of other work. That's what we're talking about, Corona-related. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110633	The short answer to Mr. Bent Bøgsted's hope that the government will come up with a very good amendment on the back of this discussion is that we will, of course, endeavour to do so. Before I can confidently answer how and how, we just need to examine how we implement it and, if so, what it will cost. But, as I said, we look at it very positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110700	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110704	I would like to ask the Minister how he can see that extra costs can come out of it. I guess there's financial laws and everywhere else there's money set aside for people to get their pre-retirement pay. If, then, the situation arises that they are taking a job, have you taken into account that then you can subtract them? No, you don't. That means the money is there. The money is there in the form of payment of the full early retirement. So there will be no extra costs by failing to set off. There are some revenue that you miss, which you might have already started to think was a nice thing, but that is not the case. The money is set aside to pay the full early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110747	That argument may seem okay, but on the bottom line it will still lead to state extra expenditure, whatever you call it, and what you think is fair, because there is, in fact, also a political point of view in the way Mrs Gottlieb argues. I do not think we have an expectation that there will be many additional costs, but there will be some, and that is something to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110812	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110814	I don't understand where the extra costs come from. An amount is set aside to pay early retirement to those entitled to early retirement. If there is a change, you can only get into a situation where you miss some revenue that you did not expect because people are set off because they are paid. It cannot be right that there are extra costs there, but we must look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110841	But if you miss out on an income that you did not expect, but, like everything else, you also often calculate and count on in the models that are used, that will also lead to an additional cost on the bottom line. That is just what we need to take into account. I can't answer the math because we didn't do the math. That is why I say today in Parliament that we would like to make that calculation so that we can have a proper discussion at second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110909	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110924	The debate is open. Sir. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216110942	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, December and Christmas again this year have been overshadowed by an increasing coronasmite in society. But it can also be said that, fortunately, vaccines and good habits mean that we can continue to keep society relatively open despite high daily levels of infection. It is also important that we keep an eye on the infection in society and engage with the good weapons that we now know so well when the infection runs away from us. With the introduction of a number of restrictions on high levels of infection, it is said to have a negative impact on parts of the private sector. That is why the government and the social partners reached another tripartite agreement last week to extend the temporary work-sharing system. This must help to ensure continued flexibility and security, both for employees and also for companies. In the Agreement, the Government and the social partners agree to extend the temporary arrangement until 31 March 2022. The draft law here is the implementation of the agreement which we in the Socialist Group naturally support. With the bill, we are extending the already existing system, whereby companies can reduce employees in hours and pay instead of dismissing them when turnover falls. Instead, employees are compensated by increased daily allowances. This must help to hold hands under both companies and workers. I think it has proved to be a good tool, which we have also benefited greatly in the past. We have seen some impressive figures in relation to how many jobs we secured at the peak of the crisis, which had otherwise risked losing their jobs. So, on this basis, we support the bill from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111137	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111141	Things are regularly adopted that are a little half-crazy in the name of the corona. This is crazy. The labour market is crying out for labour. This is a system that makes it easier to be on unemployment benefits, even though the labour market is crying out for labour at the moment. What are the reasons why the Social Democrats have agreed to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111210	After all, when we look at the situation, which was there in the past, we find that this tool actually provides jobs, both for companies and also for employees. And this is, as I said, a transitional period in which we think that the step in and out does not necessarily make any sense. That's why we can defend this scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111237	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111238	It is a system that keeps people from working as much as they would otherwise have done. This is not something we need at the moment. We need people to work hard. Can the Social Democrats use some excuse for being pushed into this by the extreme left in the Enhedslisten or the like? Is there something you can say as an excuse for doing something that is so crazy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111303	I do not know whether I will accept the premise that we are doing something so crazy, because then some of this responsibility has to be passed on to the social partners. As I say, this is a trilateral. In other words, it is an agreement that has been made with both employees and employers who have had an interest in this. That's kind of just what we're backing up about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111325	There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111340	Thank you. I believe that most people had not foreseen that in December 2021, almost two years after the rise of the corona virus in Denmark, we still had to be included both financially, but also in terms of health. After all, the consequences have been many and serious, and the temporary arrangement we are discussing here today is, of course, about extending the system of division of labour and following up the tripartite agreement that has been concluded. After all, it is not just about the division of labour; it is also about wage compensation for forced companies and a temporary wage compensation scheme for hard-hit companies. Overall, we think it is a sensible tripartite agreement. It can be said that extraordinary times require extraordinary action, and that is exactly what we are seeing at the moment. What we also support in the Left is that this bill is also being dealt with quickly so that we can ensure the rapid implementation of the arrangements referred to and agreed in the tripartite agreement that has just been concluded. And on that basis, the Left will support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111505	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111508	Yeah, well, this is getting worse and worse. First, the Social Democratic Party goes up and speaks nonsense, and then the Left's turn is to do the same. Well, we have some companies that do not need this manpower at the moment, but on the other hand there are some other companies that really need that manpower. So the Left says: well, let us give some support to the fact that the company that does not need the labour force still has the labour force on the payroll, without they actually having anything to do at the moment. So with some public subsidies they will still be gone there instead of looking for a job where they are needed, because there is a need for them all sorts of other places and very much need them. What on earth is the Left thinking about here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111552	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111554	We have a great deal of respect for the fact that when the social partners sit down and agree with the government in office at all times on balance, as I think we should call it. In other words, this is both a division of labour, but also wage compensation for, as I said, forced companies, and a wage compensation option in relation to hard-hit companies. Then we say in the Left that we have a great deal of respect for that, and that is why we will also support what is at stake. We hope, then, that this division of labour will not be needed because it will be found out out there. And, as the rapporteur says, there are people moving from one industry to another. That is why it is only a temporary period, but it is still helping to support both the employees, but not least the companies affected at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111654	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111656	Well, just because there is the negotiating climate between employers and employees, that is, that some employers who benefit from this scheme are persuaded the other employers who would benefit from the opposite, to go with the employees who always just want some more money from the public sector, the Left must say so automatically that, okay, they have decided and have agreed that they want some money from the public sector, so the Left just votes for it, because when the social partners want money from the public sector, the Left is just obliged to deliver that money?
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111735	Basically, I think that as a society, we benefit from having a well-functioning labour market and that we have some social partners who take responsibility. I think that the social partners do. I fully agree that this is a balance, so that this is not without costs for our community either. However, there are also advantages in the fact that companies which, due to the corona crisis, have less activity over a period of time can recover strongly once we have got through the crisis. We in the Left would like to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111809	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216111823	Thank you for that, President. After all, this bill comes from a tripartite agreement of December with the social partners. One might say that this legislation is a form of wearing belts and belts, because is it needed or is it not needed? What I have listened to from employers is that it is not, as such, one they are paying high regard to, but they accept that it is there because there may be some who need it, and those who really need it are where the government has shut down the entertainment industry. They cannot make use of the division of labour because there is no work to distribute. So they can't use it. However, there may be some individual companies that, because of corona, are going into a material shortage where they cannot get materials, and they can then benefit from it. But it is a form of wearing belts and braces, so rather make sure a little too much than too little. This is the thinking I think the government has here with the social partners, that is to say you say that you are now taking such a temporary extension, so you are on the safe side if there is to be something, and that after New Year you are not going to have to deal with creating a new law on the division of labour. But what one generally hears from industry, craftsmen and such things is that they do not need a division of labour and that they have plenty to do. Some of them lack labour, but there may be some who may get into a little lack of material, and then you may need a few weeks of division of labour. But it's like wearing a belt and braces. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal, but that is not what we give the highest weight to in this proposal. But okay, we accept it as it is, because it might help some.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112012	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112030	In a way, the tripartite agreement has been translated into such concrete legislation. It is about dragging each other through the crisis, and in this way we will also have a strong society with strong business and good jobs. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112056	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112107	Thank you very much, President. On 10 December, the Government and the social partners concluded an agreement to extend the temporary division of labour to apply from 1 January to 31 March 2022. Radical Left supports the tripartite agreement and the elements in it and therefore supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112134	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112149	Thank you. It is not a system that is being used much. We don't expect it to come to that either. But it's good to have. Because if you have some understanding of continuity in a production process or otherwise, it is good that you have the opportunity to do some restructuring under these conditions. We are concerned to ensure that this system continues, but that it is not endless because there are many problems in it, and therefore it is good to extend it for these three months. We think this is a good thing and, as I said, we do not expect it to be used to any significant extent. But I would say, when we are dealing with all these provisions, that we are also going to have to take into account the problems that the Corona situation puts the individual in, i.e., for example. health reports and the kind of things, sickness benefits and all the things that relate to the postponement of your operations, or what do I know? I mention this because I can see that, in the first place, we have tackled what is needed by companies. Now I think we need to push something to ensure that all the considerations are taken into account to ensure that workers and their needs are taken into account in the exceptional situation we are facing. But Enhedslisten supports the proposal. It's good to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112317	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we move on to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112322	Thank you very much. We are talking about the implementation of a tripartite agreement which is fine. In the Conservative People's Party, we are, of course, always on the side of companies, and that is why the urgent legislative proposal for extending the temporary work-sharing system until 31 March is certainly not something that we have any objections to, and that is why we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112343	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112357	Thank you. I have some basic problems with this proposal, because it is a proposal that becomes relevant because it imposes restrictions on companies that have not been explained about the need for. I have repeatedly asked in the Epidemics Committee for proof of the effect of the restrictions imposed, and this has not been shown, and then an agreement will be drawn up which costs society even more money, based on restrictions imposed and with which the documentation, the necessity and proportion of which have not been explained, and I have a fundamental problem. Then there has been a tripartite agreement, but I certainly do not think that in here in the Parliament there is a compulsory automatic system to always follow what comes to be agreed between the social partners. Most often, it may be sensible, but we have some questions we would like to have unveiled before we finally take a position on this bill. Because I think there are some problems in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112503	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That means it's Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112512	We are voting against the draft law, which will help to ensure that there is no labour available for industries which today have a great need for labour, because companies that do not currently use their labour will be paid to keep the labour force instead of employees finding other jobs where they are needed. We currently have huge problems with companies having filled order books and can deliver services and goods to Denmark and the world, but lack labour, lack hands that can come and work for them. There are hands elsewhere, but with such schemes that we are supposed to vote in favour of here, we are therefore preventing employees from moving to where they are needed by giving money to employers who do not need their employees at the moment, so that they keep the employees, instead of leaving the employees and finding jobs where they are needed. So it's a bill that costs on prosperity and keeps people idle, even if they could be in work. We will never vote for this kind of thing, and neither do we here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112636	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112650	The KD supports the bill, and we do so for the reason that it is a tripartite agreement. We think it is sensible to back this up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112702	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why it is now the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112712	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteurs for the debate and also for the comments on the legislative proposal. With increasing pressure of infection and the introduction of a number of new restrictions affecting and also affecting parts of the private sector, the government and the social partners have considered it necessary to ensure continued flexibility and security for companies and their employees. Therefore, on 10 December, the Government and the social partners have agreed to extend the temporary work-sharing scheme for a further period of 3 months until 31 March 2022. The draft law is the implementation of the tripartite agreement, which I hope will also be supported by a broad majority in this Parliament. The Government proposes that the temporary work-sharing scheme be extended for a further three months. The scheme is proposed to be extended under the conditions previously in force in order for private companies to be able to implement temporary work sharing in the context of the management of covid-19. The extension of the scheme is intended to help private companies, which are still challenged by the Corona crisis, by reducing employees in time and pay. Instead, employees may receive an increase in the daily allowance for the remaining time. The possibility for companies to set up temporary work-sharing arrangements may mean that redundancies are avoided. With an increase in the daily allowance rate for employees and with the flexibility of opportunities for enterprises, there is therefore also the necessary balance in the scheme. During the coronatide we have seen that the scheme has worked for many companies and that there have been more than 10,000 employees in the scheme over a period of time. The government is well aware that we are in a situation of shortage of labour and that in many places there is no work to distribute, but a lack of hands. But here and now it is a question of creating a clear framework and security for both employees and companies, so that they know that the aid is there if the need arises in the coming months. I would therefore like to thank the social partners for taking responsibility when the crisis hits Danish society and that it has once again been possible to reach an agreement. Once again, I would like to thank Parliament very much for helping to ensure that this bill could be dealt with urgently and for the support I also hear. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112926	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. No one has asked for the floor. Since it is not, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216112942	The debate is open. First, we give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113015	Thank you for the floor. To begin with, of course, I would like to thank the initiators of the citizens' proposal and, of course, I would also like to thank those Members of Parliament who have chosen to table it as a resolution. I always think that this is an expression of a healthy democratic culture, even when we are discussing a subject which concerns many Danes today. The proposal, which we are going to discuss today, is prompted by the EU's obligation to implement a directive on earmarked leave by August 2022. The government clearly wants more Danish fathers to take more leave of absence. It benefits fathers, it benefits mothers, and it benefits children in particular when both parents can be with their children early in their lives. It will also support equality between men and women in the labour market and in families if leave and care obligations are spread more evenly between the danger and the mother. At the same time, the government wants the Danish leave rules still to be so flexible that families have good opportunities to adapt according to their wishes and needs. That is why I am also pleased that on 26 October 2021 we reached a broad political agreement on earmarked leave with the Left, SF, Radicals, Enhedslisten and the Alternative. Thanks to those parties for that. The agreement is a bit of a cheek egg, if that is to be used, because it contributes to the achievement of three objectives: firstly, we are implementing, as we should, the European Union's Leaves Directive. Secondly, the agreement also ensures a high degree of flexibility for families, not least in relation to mother's leave. Thirdly, it also ensures greater equality of rights and obligations for parents. So to the citizens' proposal: the citizens' proposal to add 9 weeks to the existing right to maternity leave is not, in the view of the government, the best solution. It is the government's opinion that the length of leave of 52 weeks with maternity benefit is appropriate and parents wishing to take longer leave can already today extend their leave beyond the period during which they are entitled to benefit. An extension of the total period of leave with maternity benefit could mean that some or a number of fathers will not take the leave which they are earmarked for, and thus will not take more leave weeks than they do today. And the whole purpose of the directive will therefore be missed. At the same time, it is a very expensive solution to extend family leave with maternity benefit by two months. This could result in considerable costs for maternity benefits up to 2.6 billion. kr. annual. In addition, it will, of course, significantly reduce the supply of labour. If we look at the Nordic countries, only Sweden has a much longer leave period than we have in Denmark. As I said at the outset, the attitude of the government is that it is good for the children when both the mother and the father can be there to a large extent when they are small. This benefits both children's development and well-being, but research also shows, if both parents take part in the caring tasks that come with having a family, that actually helps to reduce conflicts and the risk of break-up in the family. I also think the positive effect is worth having in mind when we discuss the distribution of leave in the family. For all these reasons and with reference to the political agreement of 26 October, the government cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113344	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113348	Thank you to the Minister for the speech and also to list all the positive parts and effects of the parents and families sharing maternity leave more equally. One of the concerns of the proposers here is that children whose fathers do not want to take their leave have less time with their other parent. I would like to know if the Minister could tell us what we have also been informed about in the negotiations, i.e. how much less time it is, on average, about children having with their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113424	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113426	Basically, what we have to base it on is what the Nordic experience is, and the Nordic experience shows that the utilisation rate is between 90 and 100 per cent. by an ear tag of 8-10 weeks and that it is in fact only after further extensions to 15 and 12 weeks respectively in Norway and Sweden that the rate of utilization falls to 90 and 85% respectively. That is why, based on the experience of countries which, by the way, are very similar to us, we believe that in time the vast majority of fathers will actually take advantage of the full nine weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113504	The next brief remark is to Mr. Henning Hyllested, no, it's for Mr. Hyllested. Torsten Gejl. Torsten Gejl. Torsten Gejl, who has come to press as sir. Henning Hylllested. ) I will make sure to remember that it is Mr. Torsten Gejl, who has the floor, and not Mr Gejl. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113516	Thank you. It turns out, of course, that children will get more in the day care centre on the basis of the legislation that came from the European Union on earmarked maternity leave for men, which we have also been involved in negotiating, because some What do we need to do to ensure that we in Denmark become a pioneer country to ensure that we take that maternity leave, Minister? Are we gonna run campaigns or how are we gonna get the men on the field here? I think we have a responsibility for this when we make a scheme which, according to the figures, means that children risk having less time with their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113602	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113604	I shall start with the first part of the question, because I think that may also in fact be one of the points raised by Mrs Samira Nawa. In our best judgment, based on all the experience we can pollute around Europe and especially in the Nordic countries, the vast majority of fathers will use the full length of leave. With regard to the tiny margin in which we estimate that some will not do so, it is estimated that the earmarking will result in an average earlier start-up in the day-care institution of half a week per week. child per child, vintage. This means that it is very, very limited, and therefore much of what has been highlighted in the public debate is that children will be sent nine weeks earlier in day care, not something we can recognise from the experience gained in Sweden, Norway and elsewhere. Secondly, I believe that what we men can do in particular is try to take the lead and take that maternity leave. I myself have just returned after 9 weeks of leave, and I highly recommend everyone else to take that maternity leave. And, of course, we also need the social partners to take the lead in the agreements. Fortunately, this has been done in the private sector, and it is also something that I think we will see further development in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113718	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113720	I think it is a good thing that the government is thinking about what initiatives we can take to get us men more involved in taking that maternity leave. The figures we are talking about now are just estimates calculated on the basis of how it is in Norway and Sweden, so we do not know if it will be the same pattern in Denmark. So this is really an appeal to the government, through campaigns and through all the initiatives that can be taken, to put a lot of emphasis on and make sure that we men get on the ground and take some maternity leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113757	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113758	Of course, we are happy to contribute to all of this, but I believe that one of the most important contributions that has actually been made, even before the Danish Parliament has adopted it here, is that in the private labour market, in the collective agreements for more than 600,000 private employees, of whom a majority of them are men, it was decided, in the collective bargaining and collective agreement of 2020, to grant the right to 8 weeks of full pay. These are initiatives of this kind and agreements of this kind in the labour market, which will also really push development forward. And I believe that in future collective agreements we will see even more weeks added, and we will of course have to contribute to the fact that everyone is aware of their rights and takes advantage of their rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113841	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113843	Thank you. I can start by welcoming the Minister back from maternity leave. It is very good that the Minister is taking the lead in this way. I fully agree that this agreement will make a huge difference in relation to whether or not you can afford to go on maternity leave, i.e. that you get paid during your earmarked maternity leave. But one of the things we hear from some of the men who have been on maternity leave is that there are not so many things to do as a man on maternity leave. Therefore, in the SF on the Finance Act last year, we have given priority to some of these things, such as: The forum for men's health makes, namely father's playroom and pharaoh's ambassadors out in the municipalities. Is it not something the government can see that we could make even more of in the future, precisely to ensure that there are also initiatives that men can do with their children when they are on maternity leave?
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113932	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216113933	I believe that a large number of initiatives can be taken to push ahead, but I also believe that much will grow out of private initiative and from association. During the nine weeks I have been on leave, I have enjoyed coming to new places with children during maternity leave. We must not, as politicians and ministers, advertise private initiatives, so I will refrain from doing so, but there are some who have created such play rooms combined with cafés and so on. All this works really, really well, and I think that you will see more of that sort of growth in the future in all Danish cities, and I only want to welcome it. If you can do something and agree something like that to push that development forward, I always think it's worth considering.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114027	There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Thank you to the Minister for Employment. The first ordinary rapporteur is Mr. Henrik Møller of the Social Democratic Party, please come up here now. You see the sick-ass drunk that's great.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114050	I think I will start by saying that we in the Social Democratic Party do not, as a surprise, agree very much with the Minister on the remarks and the things that the Minister has made here. It is, of course, as has also been mentioned, that back in October the government and a broad majority of the Folketing concluded a political agreement aimed at implementing the EU directive on earmarked maternity. The citizens' proposal that we are considering today proposes a slightly different model from that on which a broad majority has already, and indeed recently, reached an agreement. It is proposed that maternity be extended with the co-parents' earmarked share if the co-parents do not make use of the right to the earmarked leave of 9 weeks. Proposers justify the proposal on the basis of the best interests of the child. I think that I too would like to acknowledge the importance of the involvement of parents in the political debate and, of course, especially in the issues that affect everyday life. So from here, of course, thanks are due. However, when we reject the citizens' proposal here, it is primarily because we have already reached a political agreement by a large majority on a new model of leave, such as the one we have before us. must support the participation of both parents in the leave. We believe that it will benefit both parents, but also the child to spend time together early in life. It can be said that it will also help to support equality between men and women in the labour market when it is not expected that it is only women who take the leave. It can be said that the proposal and the model proposed here risk undermining the incentives to take leave for fathers, and we do not think this is appropriate. It seems to be contrary to what was intended by this, namely that there is also a shared responsibility within the family in relation to the children; also because we think it is good for the children. Having said that, it is of course also a priority for us to have it made sufficiently flexible, so that the individual family still has the opportunity to plan according to their own needs and opportunities. That is why it is only the nine weeks that cannot be moved between Mom and Dad, and we think that is a good solution. So on that basis, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114323	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114325	Sir. Henrik Møller, that is exactly the point of the proposal. After all, I have been following the whole process, because it is a discussion that has been going on in the European Union for many, many years. And I would just like to point out to Mr. Henrik Møller, that the intention of the European proposal has never been to weaken the maternity regime in any country. There are, of course, some people who actually think that it is right or wrong, and we think that is the case with the implementation of the directive that is being done here today. It has never been the intention in a European context to do so. - Sir... Henrik Møller confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114422	That was actually as much a question as it was a statement. Well, I guess that's kind of right, considering that sir. Jens Rohde has probably been closer to the whole process around the EU, but we still think there's a strength in this. We still have 52 weeks away in Denmark, and I am, as it were, in the comments that were made before, that the starting point is, of course, that we reach that 100 per cent. In fact, the men also get this maternity leave, which is there. In fact, when we get there, we do not think that there are any deteriorations in this situation, on the contrary, there is a strength in both parents being aware of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114500	Here you go, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114501	In the real world, there may actually be situations where it will not actually be economical for the family to make the choices or where it will be a very costly affair for a family to make the choice that is imposed here. Then you can risk a part of the barsle. That is why my question is: who is the maternity leave for? Is it for the parents, or is it for the child?
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114544	As a starting point, I guess it's for both sides, that is. It's also a matter of parents with their kids in relation to this. So I do not think that leave is clearly for only one party; I think it is for the whole family.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114602	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. No, Mr President. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114608	I think I just got in time. I just have one question for it, as Mr. Henrik Møller says it's both sides. After all, parents are deprived of the opportunity to plan their own parental leave. The government goes in and dictates: we will decide how your maternity leave is to be. This is a warped attitude towards equality. They use equality as a tool and say that parents are not good enough to control themselves, who should have maternity leave and when. And as Mr. Jens Rohde said that what happened here was not the intention of the European Union. It is because many countries do not have maternity leave and then you will earmark it. But with this, the government goes straight in and destroys the parents' right to decide for themselves how to adjust.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114711	Well, now it's the government that gets on the hump, but I'd like to say that this is done in a broad majority of parliament, so it's not the government alone that does this. However, we are doing so on the basis of a directive that has come from the European Union. And we have not concealed that until this directive came into being, that we in the Socialist Group actually suggested that there was as much flexibility as possible. But now that this directive is here, we have chosen to embrace it and say: we can see the positive prospects of having a greater share of responsibility in the family, where we have seen in the past that it has largely been only women who have taken this on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114750	Good. Is there any further comment? No. Then we would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Fatma Øktem from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216114801	Thank you. I would like to start by welcoming the Minister back from maternity leave. When 50,000 Danes have put their signatures on a citizens' proposal, it is only fair that we politicians should also sit down and read carefully what arguments are behind the proposal, as is the case with all other proposals. So, of course, I have also done so with this citizens' proposal to extend the right to benefit during maternity leave. I can read in the first line that the proposers write that: the EU Leave Directive is a welcome renewal of the Danish Leave Act because Danish parents are treated in the bar. And I agree with that. We made a political agreement in the autumn, which was about implementing the EU Leave Directive. I know that the debate can sometimes see it as if there is no directive, but that it is something that the government, the Left and the other parties behind the agreement have come up with. But it is actually based on a leave directive... first and foremost. I would say that we finally set up the Danish maternity system in such a way that all Danish parents now have a perfectly equal right to go on maternity leave with their newborn child. In addition to the fact that it was a bottom-up task, it was also one of the important reasons why the Left took part in the agreement. Reading on from the proposal, I can be a little concerned about whether it will water down precisely the objective of ensuring better equality between parents in relation to maternity, including in the labour market. For the proposal is specifically about extending the right to benefit, so that we not only earmark 9 weeks for both parents, but also give another 9 weeks for parents to share. This must be done in order to ensure that the nine weeks are not lost, so that children come earlier in day care if fathers do not exercise their newly acquired right to maternity leave. That is to say, the proposal is therefore about the equal right to maternity leave, which I agree with, but also about the fact that we cannot trust that fathers will now exercise their right to maternity leave. Third Vice-President Excuse me, I have to ask you not to speak on the phone in the Chamber. Here you go to the rapporteur). Thank you very much. I think it is to underestimate the Danish fathers. There was a survey in the autumn which shows that the majority of Danish fathers who are prepared for it will make use of the earmarked maternity leave they are now receiving. I understand that the majority does not mean everyone, but I also agree and know that not all mothers take full maternity leave either. It is the individual family that adapts itself and knows what is right for them. This was also one of the most important things for us in the negotiation of this agreement: maximum freedom for the family, maximum flexibility and minimum implementation. And I can just say that if the Left had not been in that agreement, we were not talking about 9 weeks of extension today, but about 14 weeks of extension. If the Left had not been included in that agreement, we would have talked not only about employees today but also about self-employed people. The proposal is also very much about the economy. And when we look at the economy at what it will cost with another 9 weeks, we can see that it is 2.6 billion. kr. at extra cost to the Treasury. At the same time, it will draw approx. 8,600 people out of the labour market. We in the Left cannot support that. So we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115233	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115237	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur is very keen to read about the EU Leave Directive. That is what it is, but in the next point it says that it is sad for the many thousands of children whose fathers are not going to use the right to maternity leave, as the earmark cannot be transferred to their mother. What is happening here is that the Left is in the agreement that we have just adopted. Unfortunately, this proposal should have come before we adopted the second proposal. The Left has agreed to lock 9 weeks to the danger which cannot be transferred to the mother if the danger cannot take them. This means that children's families lose the right to nine weeks. We could have left maternity leave as it was, and said that we give nine more weeks as the fathers could have, and if they do not take it, they will lose them, and the parents had that year. We could have done that if there had been a will to do so. There was not, also because of the EU directive that the Left is very concerned about. But what the rapporteur has done is to deprive the families of self-determination to plan for themselves. The 9 weeks are locked to the danger, and the mother cannot get them if the danger cannot finish them!
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115347	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115349	I don't know what the question was about whether there was a question or whether Mr. Bent Bøgsted just wanted to tell him what he thought of it. There would otherwise be room for that when it is so that Mr. Bent Bøgsted has the floor. I do not think there is any question in it, or I do not understand it. The rapporteur has the opportunity to ask me the question if there is a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115415	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115416	I would like to spell it out if the rapporteur does not understand. Why does the Left go in and say: we lock 9 weeks to the father, who cannot be transferred to the mother unless the father takes them? This deprives parents of self-determination. 9 weeks of maternity leave is gone if the father is not able to take it. It can be for economic reasons; it can be for many reasons. Not everyone gets paid during maternity leave. There are some who have to work: the hourly wage is not paid during maternity leave. It's cash benefits. And if they have a high salary, they don't go in and take that maternity leave. So today, the mother can hold it all. But the Left is depriving parents of self-determination. Why does the Left do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115452	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115453	That's because the Left lives up to a bottom task, and that's a bottom task. Sir. Bent Bøgsted knows very well that there is a directive that we need to implement, but that, Mr Bøgsted. Bent Bøgsted forgets to say that the Left can see some good prospects in this, including in the area of equality, also in terms of equality in the labour market and equality in the home, where we can see that it is still women who have most tasks. But when that's said, sir... Bent Bøgsted keeps making it sound like it's the Left that's bringing this. It's not. It is a bottom-up task that we are fulfilling, but I can assure you that it is for the Left that it is a minimum implementation and that it is not 14 weeks, but 9 weeks that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115541	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115543	I'm sorry about the phone right away. I thought I put it on silent, but then the clock rings on my arm, and then it makes a noise, and I'm sorry. Well, peace be to it. Mrs Fatma Øktem, we are talking about some fundamental values here, and as a Liberal I know that liberal DNA, where it was unthinkable, at least in the past, that the Left would have argued for it here, as Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, the President of Mrs Fatma Øktem, did so when we had the last debate in this Chamber. And there I have to say that it sounded a lot to me, as if the President of the Left actually saw this as the real liberal set of values. He could not see that there was any restriction on people's freedom in the field of maternity. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115648	We believe that it is quite liberal to say that there must be equality and equal rights and equal opportunities for parents, both for parents and for mothers, yes, I think that is quite liberal. And still gone: it's a task that we had to solve. We already have. For us, it has been crucial that there was as much freedom as possible for the family, that there was maximum flexibility, that the employees concerned here and that the self-employed were outside. We've secured that. But it is also true that the Left has seen some equality in this. It is true that we can see that it helps to increase equality, both in the labour market and also in the home. So it's something extra. So there are two legs in it that we like to back around: 1) that it should
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115749	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115751	Well, I can actually follow some of the rationale if you choose to go that way. But the second part of it is, I think, a bit of a contradiction. For what is actually a contradiction between having equal rights for everyone and having total freedom to choose for yourself? Because the equal rights are then dosed from in here. And there was a time when it was at least good tone in the Left that it was thought that it should not be dosed from in here, that is, the freedoms; they should be created by the people themselves and by the families themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115834	Thank you very much. And yes, we still stand by that. But it has not been completely free, as Mr. Jens Rohde makes it sound like. There's been earmarking in this area. It's been 14 weeks for Mom, and it's been two weeks for Dad. It may be that Mr. Jens Rohde thinks it was far more fair, but it is not the case that it has been a completely earmarking-free period of maternity leave. It hasn't been. The family is forced to decide for themselves, and they can also have a longer period of maternity leave. They can hold the nine weeks extra today if they want. But then it's just not the state that pays; then the families pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115918	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party, which is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216115934	Thank you for that, President. This citizen's proposal is actually a good citizen's proposal. It is a question of whether it is arranged in the right way. Unfortunately, however, this comes only after the law on maternity has been passed. This should have been dealt with before we had voted on maternity leave. So it's a little passé now, unfortunately. But I must admit that I would agree with the rapporteur of the Left that parents are able to have longer maternity leave. As long as the parents pay and say that they will be home and care for children, then you can have maternity leave for 10 years if that's what you want to spend as long as you pay for yourself. Then you just don't have a job. You can do that. However, this is about the fact that a large majority in the Folketing, with the maternity leave adopted earlier this day, deprives parents of the right to administer maternity leave themselves and to decide for themselves who is to be on maternity leave and when and how long to have. In the Danish People's Party we would have liked to have seen that it was all up to the parents, including the weeks earmarked for the mother. There are of course a few weeks after birth, where it goes without saying that the father cannot take it. But it was up to the parents to decide for themselves. That is what was in it when we made the maternity leave back in 2002, which I was involved in. It was to ensure that parents had self-determination in relation to who was to take maternity leave, how long to take maternity leave and when to take maternity leave. That's what was in it back then. This directive was then used as the basis for this: equal opportunities; we must now, with violence and force, ensure that the danger is at least to keep maternity leave. Then you go in and say, "Well, then we'll take 9 weeks from the mother, and if the father doesn't hold them, the family loses the right to the 9 weeks." It's one of the worst machinations ever made. It may well be that it comes from an EU directive, but if only a large majority has said yes to a bad EU directive, which was made on the basis that some countries do not have maternity leave. We could have done just like Finland, which added nine weeks. We could have kept the maternity leave in the way it was arranged, and then say that we give 9 weeks to the father, and if the father doesn't take them, then they fall away. Then it is said that it costs a few billion. But the law that has been made here has been extended so much that it gives the right for Romanians who have children at home in Romania to go home on maternity leave. If they have three or four children, they can go home for nine weeks for each child. It also costs a few billion in that sense. It was better to have used it at home to secure the Danish parents. You don't; you choose to expand it. In the Danish People's Party we think this is a commendable proposal, and we really think that we should have taken the Finnish model, which added 9 weeks to the existing maternity leave • that we did not touch the existing maternity leave and then added 9 weeks. This is what we in the Danish People's Party think is the right solution to this if there is to be any earmarked maternity leave for the fathers. But don't touch the parents' right to distribute the bar. It's a misguided equality. You go in and say that by force and violence we will decide how parents should adapt, because it is equality, and then you deprive parents of the right to decide for themselves. That citizen's proposal would have retained the parents' right to decide for themselves. The Danish People's Party can support the citizens' proposal, but it is passé because the law on maternity is made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216120315	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Astrid Carøe from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216120343	Thank you. A few months ago, we landed a historic agreement on earmarked maternity leave for both parents. I'm still really happy and proud to have been a part of that. It was absolutely crucial to me and to the SF that we secured the child's right to both its parents in the first year and the father's right to association with his child. At the same time, it was also a major step towards equality in Denmark, because we know that earmarked maternity is an absolutely crucial tool for equality in the labour market, in addition to the equal treatment of parents in the family. There is a serious need for this. A completely new study shows that women with academic background earn on average 17 per cent. less than their male colleagues. And although there are many reasons for unequal pay in Denmark, equal distribution of maternity leave is one of the crucial tools for solving this problem. So in the SF we are really happy with this agreement, and we are also a little bit sorry that it was once again the EU that should kick the door for more equality in Denmark. But I'd rather that than that it hadn't happened. Having said that, we would have liked to see in the SF that we generally have more weeks of maternity leave for newly baked parents than the current 48 who are after birth. But when we expand by extra weeks, it costs a lot of money, and that is why it was not possible to find them in the context of the agreement we have just reached. Therefore, we in the SF continue to work on a general extension of the bar, so that both father and mother can have several weeks with their child before it has to in the institution both a general extension, but also an extension of the earmarked weeks. So I can well understand where the proposers come from. For 9 weeks of extra maternity leave with benefit entitlement will be good for both children and parents. However, according to the Ministry of Employment, it will cost 2.6 billion. kr. a year, so this is a really, really expensive proposal. Therefore, we also believe in the SF that it will be more realistic to continuously expand by several weeks, as such an expense is very difficult to find cover for at once. That's what we want in the SF, too. We would like to extend both in general and with earmarked weeks so that in the long term we can ideally come up with a model called 20 weeks for mother, 20 weeks for father and 20 weeks for sharing, so you have 60 weeks in total. But there is a long way to go, and we have to take it a few steps at a time. So although I can understand the thoughts and background of the proposal, we in the SF are voting against. We do this because we in the SF are in the agreement on earmarked maternity leave. As I said, I really appreciate that deal. This is a very big step for fathers who are finally also entitled to earmarked maternity leave, which mother has had for more than 20 years. Now all the sails have to be set in order for us to have a very good implementation of this agreement, as many fathers as possible make use of their new rights, and I hope, as was mentioned when I asked the Minister, that we can have a lot of campaigns and initiatives, so there's plenty to do for these fathers who are now going on maternity leave. And then we will also be voting against this proposal, because the consequences of the citizens' proposal will be an expense of over 2 billion. kr. that we can't fund right now. But, as I said, we know in the SF that we are not yet in the finish line. With the earmarked maternity agreement, we have taken a very big step in terms of equality and in terms of the child's right to both parents, and then we must continue to work to extend the bar across the board by several weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216120730	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216120733	Thank you. I just want to say a few words, because the rapporteur says that there is a cost of a few billion. But with the agreement that has been made on earmarked maternity leave, there is also an additional cost of a few billion. One could have saved the few billions and then given the parents some more maternity leave. Then I am sorry I came to say that the law on maternity leave had been passed, but it is not. It hasn't been processed yet. It was a speech mistake on my part, and I regret that. That is not what the rapporteur should be concerned with either, but could we not have spent the money spent on the agreement to give maternity leave to Romanians and who it is now, and then instead gave the parents a total of nine more weeks at the other end? It'd be pretty much straight up like that. Couldn't you have done it instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20211216120816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216120818	I noticed that Bent Bøgsted said that the agreement was agreed, but I thought it was probably a speech mistake. In relation to the issue of migrant workers and their right to maternity leave, I think that in the agreement we had reduced it as much as we could on the basis of the directive, and it was also something that took us a long time to arrive at what we could do. It is just difficult to set up, but there is nothing to do in this area, because there it is the European Union that says that this is what we have to do and then we have to do it. A few billion were said. I remember it as if the cost of this initiative was 1.3 billion. So this 9-week extension is going to be double. So it doesn't exactly work out, but the other one was also a bottom-up task. And then we must find money to extend maternity rights in Denmark in general in the long term, and I hope that the Danish People's Party will participate in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216120914	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Thanks for doing double despriting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216120931	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the proposers and the signatories of this citizens' proposal. I think it is very good to feel the enthusiasm in the citizens' proposal for parents to be treated in the future in the field of maternity. It's an enthusiasm that I share. The Radical Left is also very pleased to be part of the historic agreement that we landed in the autumn to equalise parents' right to maternity leave. We now also give the child the right to have more time with his father. As it is today, the distribution of maternity leave is so that women take 90 per cent on average. of the barslen, while the fathers take 10%. And that's exactly what we're gonna have a fight with in the families, so you're gonna get a more equal distribution of the bass. I have to say that there are a great many positive elements in the agreement that we have reached, but not yet adopted. Men cannot be as good carers as women. It is a way of thinking that we must have done away with. In cultural terms, there are many who say that men cannot be as good carers as women. Besides being as good caregivers as women, they can also be the primary caregiver. The concern raised in the citizens' proposal that children start earlier in an institution is, of course, a concern that we have also met on an ongoing basis while we have been in the negotiations. I have come across the concerns of several quarters, for example. people who have said that now children are going to start up in institutions from 6 to 7 months of age. That is why, of course, we have raised the issue in the negotiations. But the answer from the Ministry and what has then been the concern of the Radical Left in the ground is that experience from the Nordic countries shows that the earmarked maternity leave does not work. At the same time, as the Minister said from the platform, the Minister was also able to see from experience that this will lead to an average earlier start in the institution in half a week, and that is not something that worries us in the Radical Left, since we can also outline all the benefits of this historic agreement. And one of the benefits is also economic, namely that the economy of individual families is improved by a more equal distribution of the bar, because studies indicate that men who go on maternity leave do not miss out on wage increases and promotions, and more women will be able to look forward to equal pay increases and promotions if they share the bar. Finally, I would also like to point out the cost of implementing this citizens' proposal: 2.6 billion. kr. This means that if you vote in favour of this citizens' proposal, I also believe that you are committed to finding the 2.6 billion. kr., as the Ministry of Employment has calculated, this will cost. They could then be found by perhaps savings on welfare, savings on institutions, educators, etc. Against this background, we cannot support the citizens' proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216121323	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216121335	Thank you. It is the case that our equal opportunities rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper, cannot be here today, so I have promised to express our views on her behalf. The Enhedslisten, together with a number of other parties, has reached a political agreement on the implementation of the Leaves Directive, and we stand by that agreement. And for that reason alone we cannot vote in favour of this citizens' proposal, although we have great sympathy for the desire to extend the overall maternity leave. For many years, the Enhedslisten has been working for equality of leave, so that the rules that gave the giving birthing three months of earmarked leave, which could not be transferred but only 2 weeks to the partner, are abolished. It is important, in order to achieve a more balanced distribution of the total leave, that it is done here. The unequal distribution of maternity leave is one of the main reasons why we still have high gender pay on the Danish labour market. The fact that Danish fathers take a very small share of the leave means that on average women lose 10%. of their living income per year; children, whereas men are virtually not affected. Women also have lower pension savings. And there is still an inequality in wages of just under 14 per cent. But it is also a matter of consideration for the children. Study on study shows that the more fathers are present in the early years of the children, the more they involve themselves later in life and upbringing, and this means more well-being, better educational opportunities and much more for the children. With the agreement we have reached, we have ensured that children will have more time with their fathers and that we can look forward to the positive effects that an equal earmarking of maternity leave has had in our neighbouring Nordic countries. At the same time, we have provided the opportunity to transfer maternity leave to social parents, so that rainbow families have better opportunities. We appreciate that, too. It is important that we provide children with the best conditions early in life, and fortunately it also coincides with the desire for more equality. The Enhedslisten wanted to be able to extend the total leave while a greater share was reserved for the partner, but unfortunately that was not possible in the negotiations. However, the conclusion is that Enhedslisten cannot vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216121553	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216121603	Thank you very much, sir. President. After all, I wasn't even in the room back in October when the law on maternity was negotiated. We left the room with the Christian Democrats and thank you for that. We had a process in which we had to stress that we should try to see if we could not get the municipalities to grant some subsidies for people to take care of their children in their own homes, that is to say for home care rather than forcing the danger on leave. It was a proposal that would cost 2.7 million. kr., and unfortunately we could not get support for that. This proposal, on the other hand, costs 2.6 billion. a year. Three more zeros have been added, and then it removes a job offer of 8,600 people a year. Unfortunately, we cannot support this in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216121657	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216121721	Thank you. You can feel that the Christmas spirit is about to enter the Parliamentary Chamber, but it is not when you think of these maternity arrangements that have now been decided here in the Folketing. It is an awful lack of authority on the part of the citizens, a client. I understand that the Socialists think this is a good idea, because they believe that they can best dictate and manage the lives of citizens in detail; as long as they do so increasingly, they are happy. However, I do not understand at all that bourgeois so-called liberal parties can see themselves in a system where people have to run their lives in detail and where politicians believe that they are better at deciding who should take the bar in the families, whether it should be the husband, wife, grandmother or someone else who should take the bar. Oh, my God! We must therefore be careful to speak liberally if we take the basic view that we are better at controlling the lives of our citizens than they are. We will never support such a proposal. And I would say that we in New Citizens believe that we should have this arranged in a different way with a different arrangement. We believe that the wolf should follow the child. Then you can find out in here how much money you want to spend on it and how long it has to be. In addition to that, it must be set completely free: childbirth follows the child, and whether it is father, mother, grandpa, grandmother or uncle, then we have confidence that the families can best decide for themselves. So when you look at a list of who best knows what's best for the child, yes, I'll take the liberty of putting Mom at the no. 1, even before Dad. Dad can come as number one. 2, but often it's probably Mom who's no. One, and then Dad's number one. 2. Or we could say that they're in a shared first place. But down here, at the bottom, maybe as number one. 99 on the list is the Folketing. All the way down there is the Folketing. They don't know best what's best for the baby. Parents know this in the vast majority of cases. That's why you shouldn't do something like this where you run people's lives in detail. You shouldn't do that. We're never going to support something like this in New Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216121937	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216121948	Thank you. A majority of the parliament has agreed that a greater proportion of maternity weeks must be taken by the fathers in the families, and if the fathers do not take those weeks, the families must lose the weeks. Of course, some families are sad because there are families where, for one reason or another, fathers cannot or do not want to take those maternity weeks. This means that these families lose weeks when they can be on maternity leave with their newborn child. Then this citizen's proposal comes as an answer to it. The citizens' proposal says that the total period of maternity should then be extended by the weeks that are then also targeted at fathers, which means that if fathers do not take those weeks, the family still has the same number of maternity weeks as they had before deciding that fathers should take maternity weeks if families are to have those weeks. The problem arises where you, a majority of the people, say from the outset that you cannot leave it to your mother and father to find out for himself who should take the bar. In other words, the problem arises when you have this desire that parents, fathers and mothers should be the same in relation to their wishes and their choice of number of maternity weeks, that there should be earmarked weeks for fathers that they should take if families want the weeks of maternity at all. Because we should do what the Liberal Alliance and other parties have proposed, that we should free every week and say that we should have a number of weeks as a family, and we should decide whether it is the father or the mother who should take those weeks. And if you go further, as the Liberal Alliance wishes, then you can also allocate the weeks to others, for example. a grandmother or a grandfather who has the time and profit to do so can also get off work and take some of these weeks, which the mother or father would otherwise have taken. That's the way you should go. Now a parliamentary majority is doing something else: by saying that families have to lose weeks if the danger doesn't take them, and then this citizens' proposal suggests that the family should just have a corresponding number of extra weeks. After all, the maternity scheme makes animals, and we already have an expensive maternity scheme in Denmark. There are a great many maternity weeks paid by the public in Denmark, and it is therefore proposed that a few months should be added, and we are not in favour of this. We think that we have a very generous maternity scheme in Denmark and we do not want to make it even longer with an additional two months, and that is why we have to vote against the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216122303	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216122320	Thank you, President. We are also in the agreement on earmarked maternity leave for men who were made recently and who are on their way through the Folketing, and we are pleased about that. It's a good deal. If it were the case that this citizen's proposal had come on top of that, then it would have been a perfect deal in our opinion. So we are receiving the signal from the 50,000 people who have signed here, and that is just to be honest: when, as the alternative here, you have entered into an agreement to make a piece of political craftsmanship, you cannot just break out and change it. We simply want to be honest about that. So we cannot vote in favour of the citizens' proposal, but we take it down, and the way we will show that we have received the signal is, of course, working on getting a few more weeks on top. We would also like to be involved in discussing whether we can have all the weeks in addition. I know it's expensive, but there's financial law negotiations where a larger amount of money is at stake. So we're open. We believe that we have come a bit with the agreement we made about earmarked maternity leave, but we are not in the end at all. So thank you to those who have tabled the citizens' proposal for pushing it forward. Now you're looking at the numbers of how the effect of this is going to be. Are we men going to take substantial weeks? And it's hard to know exactly now. We can only look at figures, but it would be awful if it turns out in a few years' time that we can't figure out how to take that maternity leave at all and that we have therefore actually made sure that the children are going much longer in the institution. The point is, they're gonna be with us dads. So I would really like to appeal to us to show some ass in our pants... sorry, President. The only thing we can risk is spending more time with our children, and how dangerous is it? So let us now show that here in Denmark we can take this seriously and that we fathers want our children. It will really be good for the little ones. So, in those words, I would say that unfortunately I cannot support the citizens' proposal, but we are pleased with the intention. We're happy with the signal, and we're still working on it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216122543	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Could I just ask the rapporteur to spritz off after him? Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216122609	Thank you, President. I am so strangely arranged that I actually have a great deal of sympathy for the agreement that has been made. I also have great sympathy for the directive that came from the European Union. Believe it or not, I have actually been on the Women's Committee in the European Parliament at the time, and we have had long discussions on this. However, the starting point has been another, at least in European discussions it was once another, namely to get to grips with some countries where there is basically not much maternity at all. It was not to try to degrade the barssel in a country like Denmark. That's why I said to Mr. Knox. Henrik Møller, that wasn't the intention at all. Now you can have different views about whether we are making a deterioration here. We think so, but it is on the premise that we believe, as other bourgeois-liberal politicians have said today, that the wolf should belong to the child. And if, for various reasons, you have the situation that you are not able to let the danger take the ear tag, or the other one, then the parents' time is taken away from the child, and we do not think that is appropriate. As far as the citizen's proposal here is concerned, it has been implemented sympatheticly. I'm actually having a little bit of trouble figuring out what it really wants to do if it's going to expand the bar, or it's going to give me freedom. In the introduction, there is, of course, a tribute to the renewal of maternity leave, and I interpret it as a support for the earmarking; you just want to expand it, but then you just move the median. And that can be fair enough, except that it costs a hell of a lot of money. You can find them, too, if you want to give them priority. I have to say that we in the KD do not have the funding, either in relation to the work supply or financially, in our 2030 plan to expand the barsle here. That is why, together with the Conservative People's Party, we made another proposal in the negotiations. It couldn't happen, and then we left the negotiations. We also have another priority which we think should be discussed and which we think could or should come before extending and extending maternity leave as such. And that is that we would like to see parents either through an insurance scheme, as they do in Sweden, or by other means, having far more caring days for their sick children. Because it challenges and stresses a great many families with children that there are no more days when you can take care of your sick children. It all ends up in a prioritization we can't both do one thing and the other. In any case, this would require rather major reforms on the other side of labour supply and, of course, also on economics. But, of course, the whole debate is welcome, and we think it should also be signed up to those who have tabled the citizens' proposal. However, as the citizens' proposal is here, we cannot support it for economic reasons, because we are not quite sure what it really wants and because we think that there are other priorities that should also be included in that discussion. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216123027	Thank you. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211216123041	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 17 December 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
