ParlaMint-DK_20210121100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Jane Heitmann (V), Karina Adsbøl (DF), Mette Thiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 120 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on nursing home boards and enhanced user and family involvement). Per Larsen (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 121 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on combating the spread of street clinics in general practice). Susanne Zimmer (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 122 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the study of the possibilities of a total ban on the use of wood stoves, fireplaces and the like). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210121100041	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121100103	Thank you for the floor, President. With this bill, the government is proposing to introduce a new loan scheme so that we can strengthen the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises at a time when it is urgently needed. The proposal forms part of the agreement on the reopening of general compensation schemes under Covid-19. In addition, it is proposed that the deadline for payment of registration fees for motor vehicles in mid-April be postponed until mid-November 2021. It must strengthen the liquidity of the car industry, which is under pressure because of the measures to reduce the spread of corona virus and the amended rules for the payment of registration fees resulting from the Green Road Transport Agreement, which ensure that the green reorganisation of car taxes takes effect as soon as possible. As everyone knows, we are still in a very serious situation in the corona epidemic. This is particularly noticeable in business, not least in small and mediumsized enterprises. It is a crucial priority for the Social Democratic Party that we keep our hands on companies at this time. Therefore, the government, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, has made aid packages, strengthened the liquidity of the companies and implemented recovery measures. The aid must follow the restrictions that ensure that we maintain control of the covid-19. That is why we have reached a broad political agreement on the reopening of the general compensation arrangements, and that is why we are today debating this proposal, which will strengthen the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises by about. 7 billion kr. The draft law extends the VAT loan scheme already introduced for small and medium-sized enterprises and allows them to take an interest-free loan equivalent to the A tax and the labour market contribution to be settled in January 2021. In particular, it is expected to help companies in the hard-pressed experience economy. Of course, it is important that the money comes quickly to companies that need it. The expectation is that the loan can already be disbursed at the beginning of February, provided we have a rapid legislative process and approval by the European Commission. The second part of the bill is, as I said, about bringing forward the payment deadline for registration taxes on motor vehicles, etc. until mid-November. This will strengthen the liquidity of the car industry by up to 1.5 billion. kr. and address the liquidity problems that the industry could currently face. All in all, it is an important proposal that helps to keep its hands on small and medium-sized enterprises and to ensure that the money gets out quickly in a hard-pressed business environment. This is about companies, and it's about jobs. We must avoid bankruptcies and avoid people becoming unemployed. A business that is really fighting a brave battle in this particular time when the coronapandemic continues to ravage. Of course, social democracy backs the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121100430	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121100434	Thank you for your speech, which I very much agree with. I really want to ask you something else, because it's a first reading of these corona aid packages. I would like to hear from the Social Democrats about the fact that a delay in payment deadlines is being put into this, because there are a great many small business owners who will have to pay VAT here on 1 March. This is something that was postponed with an earlier aid package, but at that time the deadline was set because we thought that we were getting out of the crisis, so you would have liquidity to pay this VAT. But now we are in a new decommissioning process, so I would really like to hear what the Socialist rapporteur's position is about, in this instance, trying to ensure that the VAT deadline is postponed further or that we might have the opportunity to set up a payment scheme, because there are a lot of small businesses out there who have problems paying their VAT here on 1 March.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121100520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121100521	Well, thank you for the question. I would point out that the proposal here includes a new loan scheme which can strengthen the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises. I would suggest that the Danish People's Party make the proposal which is being put forward here during the legislative procedure. As I understand it, it is not possible, for several reasons, to reopen it by postponing VAT payments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121100554	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121100555	I fully understand that it is difficult to answer it with a yes or no, because it is true that it is not part of this bill. But it is an emergency law in which we quickly try to translate some things to help companies with their liquidity, and it is actually on the same street. That is actually why I would try to get an opinion on whether we can continue working on it. But I understand that there is no answer to that. But let us take a look at this in the committee work. I just think it could be important if we could help many of the small businesses that are really under pressure to pay here on 1 March.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121100621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121100622	There we have a very common and clear mission. For the government and for the Social Democratic Party, it is at the top of the list that, in this pandemic of Corona and Covid-19, we are doing everything we can to ensure that our businesses are protected from bankruptcy and job losses. It is of enormous importance to our entire society and to the individual. That's why we're taking these moves too. We're gonna make these help packages. We take the measures that we assess are the right ones in relation to the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121100701	Thank you to the rapporteur. Troels Ravn, would you be so kind as to drink off here? Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121100726	Thank you for the floor. With this bill, we once again have urgent legislation, and that's because this coronatid sometimes makes us have to act a little agile and do things quickly. That is why we fully support the urgent consideration of the proposal for a new loan scheme for A tax. And I think that's a positive thing. We'd really like to be involved in urgent processing in order to set up a loan scheme. But you also need these things to be careful, because there are things that disappear when you deal with them as a matter of urgency. We haven't sent this to a hearing, and a whole lot of the other common things we do to ensure good legal quality disappear. And that is why I find it deeply problematic when you just put extra stuff into the last-minute bill. Here we have chosen to postpone the payment deadline for registration fees for motor vehicles that have just been pushed in at the last minute, and that is after we have decided that we should deal with this urgently with the A tax. I think it's very positive to deal with this urgently with A-tax, but I don't understand why you put extra stuff into the bill. In fact, I think that is a parliamentary injustice, and I think we should not do that. Nor do I understand why it is not put into the bill that we are dealing with afterwards, namely L 129, which deals with the registration fee. Reference is even made to the agreement on which L 129 is based, i.e. the agreement on green road transport, in L 139. But I don't understand why you don't put it into it. I believe that the part dealing with registration tax should be treated in parallel with the law on registration tax. And that's why I want the bill split up. Let me get back to what else is in this bill, because this was more of a matter than the process. In relation to interest-free loans corresponding to reported A tax and labour market contributions, we of course think that this is really positive. We are in a situation where large parts of Danish business are closed down, and it is bleeding to such an extent. Exceptional measures are needed, and this is asking them to pay taxes to the state, just not related to the economy they have now. That is why, of course, we fully support that part of the bill. We also want to postpone the VAT deadlines or do something else to help the companies that are about to pay VAT here on 1 March 2021. And I think I asked the tax minister about that last week and that is why, of course, it is one of the things we want to look at in the legislative process; what can we do to help companies in the crisis they are in now? It is not, of course, the case that they can make a great deal of money at the moment. A lot of companies can't keep moving. So we would very much like to see a look at the VAT deadline, which is 1 March 2021. Then there's this part about the registration fee. In isolation, we think it is positive that the government is acting. As I see it, it is the answer to some of the consultation answers that are at L 129, that is, the frustration that car dealers have to act as bankers for the state. And, of course, I think it's a positive thing to act on that. I just wanted it to be dealt with together with the registration fee. So we are actually positive about it. In fact, we also proposed last year to postpone the payment of the registration fee, so we are in favour of that part. We just don't think it belongs in this bill... it should be dealt with together with the agreement on green road transport. Against this background, I can say that the Left supports the proposal but wants to divide it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101036	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101101	Thank you. As has also been mentioned, the reason for this proposal is that we are in a pandemic where there has been the closure of a number of professions and where a large number of aid packages have been made and where this is another one. It is the implementation of an agreement that, unfortunately, the Danish People's Party is not part of. We might as well have been, but we were not invited to the negotiations. And as you usually say, it's not a shame to stay away from a party you're not invited to. We would have liked to have participated in the party, but we do support the fact that we are doing this anyway. We think it would be good to invite all parties to negotiations after all. Then it could be that one could not agree, and that is fair enough. But I actually think that the Danes expect us to work together in this time, and if you choose not to invite all parties to a thing like this, it's kind of a shame. I would guess that many would agree with that. But in the Danish People's Party, we can support the content of this bill, which is made up of two elements: one is this loan scheme, which has also been described. If you have paid A tax and labour market contributions, you can get a similar amount as a loan scheme; and accordingly, if you have made a VAT scheme. And we think that makes sense. Then there is another part of which we cannot be a part either, and it is this car agreement that we will also have to deal with with with the next legislative proposal, where it will then be postponed when to pay the registration fee to the state. Although it is not an agreement that we are part of, we think it makes sense to do so. So we support that part too. However, I would like to mention one last point which is not included in the draft law, and that is also what I asked the Socialist rapporteur about: since it is now an emergency law and we are trying to help with liquidity for businesses, I think we should look at whether we cannot postpone this refund of VAT on 1 March for small businesses. It had been believed in in the spring, when we made the arrangement to postpone the VAT deadlines, that we were on the good side of the pandemic, and that some turnover began to return and therefore had the liquidity to be able to pay back VAT. But now it is still closed down, and as my guess is that it will probably also be a decommissioning until 1 March, I think it would be obvious that in this context we were trying to see whether we could not postpone the deadline on 1 March so that we give companies a chance to survive this pandemic. Because if we do not, I think there will be a great many of the small self-employed who are going to close because they simply do not have the money to pay this VAT bill; so either a postponement of the deadline or a repayment scheme or something we can now do to give them a helping hand. I hope that we can stand together to get into this bill so that we can also get that part of this emergency law. But at least the Danish People's Party supports what is on the table, but would like to have more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101340	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Olldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101358	Thank you so much. The aim of the legislative proposal we have before us is to extend the VAT loan scheme that has already been introduced so that it is possible for small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain a so-called "A' tax loan. In the Radical Left, of course, we want to help companies through the crisis, so we are, of course, fully involved in it. We also hope that this new opportunity for a new tool to overcome the crisis will be well and thoroughly communicated to small and medium-sized enterprises, and we also hope to explain to them why it is perhaps not as appropriate or possible simply to postpone the previous VAT system. In addition, the draft law aims to postpone the payment of registration fees in order to strengthen the liquidity of the car industry. It is proposed that the registration fee for the month of March to be paid on 15 April should be postponed until 15 November. This will strengthen the liquidity of the car industry by approx. One-and-a-half billion. kr. I know it'll save a lot of night's sleep out there in the homes of the various car dealers. So in the Radical Left, we are very pleased with the government's sensitivity in finding a good and viable transition to the new toll system, which we agreed just before the turn of the year. It's a good deal that deserves to get off to a good start, so thank you for that. All in all, of course, Radicals support the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101521	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thanks for despriting. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101540	Thank you. I think a number of sensible things have already been said. The bill here comes as part of the negotiations on compensation for business during the corona crisis. A loan will be granted until 1 November after the scheme has been opened in two stages. Following this, the deadline for the registration tax on motor vehicles will also be postponed until 15 November to make the transition to the green transition easier for the car industry. That is sensible and important. SF supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101609	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101628	Thank you, President. The Enhedslisten is in the agreement behind this bill, which is why we are also voting in favour. We think it is important that, during an uncertain period of continued decommissioning and restrictions, we keep our hands on small and medium-sized enterprises. We are also pleased that a crisis policy is being pursued aimed at providing concrete help to those companies that have liquidity problems as a result of decommissioning. This ensures that jobs are not lost to a great extent, and it is a crisis policy that is being pursued in general, much more proactive than that which we saw the bourgeois people lead after the financial crisis. This has so far ensured us against the massive increase in unemployment that we have seen just after the financial crisis. However, we would also like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of the fact that these loans can result in losses to the Treasury if companies do not pay back their loans, and that is why it is of course important, and I know that other tax rapporteurs also have a focus on the fact that we keep an eye on this and that we must also be aware that the resources for control are there. Finally, in this draft law, there is also a postponement of the payment of registration fees for car dealers, and that is a sensible solution, because there will be a liquidity drain at the car dealers' premises, when the new car agreement on green transport has been agreed and which we will then have to deal with in the next legislative proposal, L 129. Whatever way this bill might be split up or not split up following what the rapporteur on the Left said, it is an element that we intend to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101803	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101820	Thank you. These are times of crisis for some companies and others are doing well. That's how it is in a crisis. We were not in the negotiations on this either, but we are fundamentally positive about it, and we support the Left in the division of the bill. It has to be the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101841	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101853	The Liberal Alliance supports the bill and we have no better arguments than those already used, so that was it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101901	Thank you. That did not make any brief comments. And then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121101916	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for your unanimous support for the bill. First of all, I would like to acknowledge that Parliament can once again succeed in coming together not only in important decisions, but also in very large ones, which are also reflected here, in the difficult times in which Danish economy, Danish companies and Danish employees are living. So thank you very much for the opportunity and support for this bill to be dealt with in an urgent process so that it can come out of action as soon as possible. We have, of course, together, the government and parliament, collaborated on, one can safely say, comprehensive aid packages over the past 9-10 months. It has held hands under Danish companies and Danish employees for a very difficult time. In the area of taxation, we have taken a whole series of decisions which have helped and, of course, helped to ensure that we have been able to maintain Danish jobs. We have among other things. deferred payment of A-tax, labour market contribution, B-tax, VAT and payroll tax by companies and ensured a smooth return to normal payment periods for A-tax, labour market contribution and VAT. Discharges of payment deadlines have increased the company's liquidity by around 150 billion. kr. The more relaxed return to normal payment periods, if you like, provides additional liquidity in the region of just under 125 billion. kr. We have introduced a VAT loan scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises which has ensured that they have been able to recover their VAT and payroll tax as a loan. That has been 35 billion. kr. available. The loan scheme has been reopened so that small and medium-sized enterprises which did not obtain the loan in the spring have a second chance. The aim of the draft law we are discussing here today is to extend the VAT loan scheme that has already been introduced so that it is possible for small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain what could be called an A tax loan in this context. Small and medium-sized enterprises are a central part of the Danish economy. They are made up of ordinary Danes who work hard every day and contribute new ideas, innovation, development and jobs to Denmark on a large scale. And that is why it is absolutely crucial for the government that we give them a solid helping hand, for the benefit of the companies, of the employees and, above all, of the Danish economy. In addition, the legislative proposal then aims to postpone the payment of registration fees and thus also to strengthen the liquidity of the car industry, as has also been emphasised. At the same time, the car industry has been challenged by the measures to reduce the spread of infection caused by the covid-19 pandemic and by the agreement on the green conversion of road transport, which we will have to deal with right here afterwards. Until 1 June 2021, when the new rules enter into force, registration fees shall be paid to the tax administration in the light of the applicable rules, according to which any repayment or post-clearance recovery will take place with effect from 18 December 2020. It is a system which has been seen in previous changes in registration fees. We are giving an increased liquidity to the car industry here. Now to the specific proposal: as I said, it is proposed to introduce a new "A' tax loan scheme to enable small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain an interest-free loan of an amount equivalent to the "A' tax and the labour market contribution that companies will have to settle and have to settle here in January 2021. Especially the companies in what we also call the experience economy are hard hit by the restrictions that Danish society is subject to. The government expects that it is especially those companies, that is, in this industry, that will request the loan. In January, small and medium-sized enterprises will have to pay A tax and labour market contributions for just under 7 billion. kr. This may be a major challenge for many companies, and I am therefore also pleased that the measures will allow companies to borrow the money, i.e. the deposit, free of interest, so that they will have better opportunities to get through the serious crisis in which our society is suffering. For example: a restaurant with ten employees, each with an average gross monthly salary of, let's say 25,000 kr., will total approx. 80,000 kroner. monthly in labour market contributions and A-tax. The restaurant will be able to borrow approx. 160,000 kroner. interest free for up to 9 months. It is expected that the loan may be disbursed as early as the beginning of February, provided that the agreed rapid legislative process here and the approval of the European Commission can be put in place. This is because the scheme involves State aid. The draft law also proposes that the registration fee for the month of March to be paid on 15 April be postponed until 15 November. This will strengthen the liquidity of the car industry by approx. One-and-a-half billion. kr. addressing the liquidity challenge currently facing the industry. There is no doubt that it is absolutely crucial both for Danish society and therefore also for the government and for the parties that have taken wide responsibility for the serious crisis that we are in both health and economic terms that our companies and employees come as well as possible through the crisis. We constantly assess whether there is a need to follow up on the extension of the restrictions and whether there is a need also to look at further help for businesses. That is why I am pleased that this time too we have been able to see broad support for initiatives in the direction in which we provide important cash flows to Danish companies. So thank you for the floor. And I look forward, of course, to a constructive committee dealing with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102542	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102545	Thank you. I would like to sign for the speech, because the Minister concludes by saying that one is willing to look at it if there is a need for further. And it might look like that, at least if you look at many of the inquiries that we get as rapporteurs, but also just if you see today's B.T., where there is one of these small self-employed people who says they are about to break their necks on the fact that on 1 March they have to pay VAT, money that they do not have, because they are closed down and therefore they have no turnover. So I really want to hear from the Minister whether, in connection with this emergency law, he will help to see whether they can be helped, that is to say either to postpone the VAT deadline further or to say that what they are paying in on 1 March will then be able to get out as a loan scheme, just like this, so that we can see whether we can find solutions that can help the small self-employed who are hit by having to pay here on 1 March, where they at least have no money in the box, because they are closed down.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102636	As I said, we're sitting here looking at these payment deadlines and we haven't decided on this yet. It is also a question of whether this can actually be done technically. But it could be said that this bill is not about VAT, but that it is about A tax and labour market contributions, and many of the very same companies will then have the opportunity to borrow up to 7 billion in total. kr. on interest-free loans for 9 months. So it's also a handout, plus that we've also done a whole series of other things. But, as I have said, we are sitting here and assessing it and also looking at what can technically be done about it. Dennis Flydtkjær is also a particular challenge in the tax administration in order to make the systems fit for whether it is possible at all. However, many things have really been done during that discussion, and that is to say 7 billion. kr. extra.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102725	Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102727	I clearly understand that this should not, of course, be some bureaucratic solution. But we have now dealt twice with the possibility of making such a loan scheme, i.e. either getting VAT paid, and then you can borrow it out again, or "A" tax, and then you can borrow it out again so that it can be technically done. Could that be a way forward? We have also postponed the deadlines in the past. This could also be technically feasible. So there are at least two options. So I really want to know whether the Minister can indicate that one is willing to go one of those ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102755	I think we're learning from experience that we're looking at it all the time, and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also, all the time that the Danish People's Party has been good at taking responsibility for this very question, and we have to look at it, and we are doing so now. I can say that, in isolation, this arrangement is considered to include approx. 140,000 companies. So that's the big number we're sitting with right now. However, we are looking at the various arrangements that we have, and it certainly cannot be denied that we are going to look at anything further. Because this is a very serious crisis that we are in, and that is why we must, of course, do what we can to keep our hands on Danish companies and Danish employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102837	Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102839	Thank you. We hear from some small companies that they have problems with the Danish Business Administration and about payment and deadlines... No, I'm sorry, the Minister is acting Minister of Finance, but you are not acting Minister of Business anymore. But then I'm sorry, because it's something with the Danish Business Authority that small businesses have problems with the accounting deadline there. But you know what, I'll take that with the acting Minister of Business instead. I'm really sorry, and then I'm not gonna stop the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102911	I don't think that gave rise to any response or did it, sir. Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102915	No, nothing more than the fact that so far I am concentrating on being acting Minister of Finance and Minister of Taxation. I've left the business, so somebody else is taking care of it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102921	Then we say thank you to the tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102939	After despriting, the debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121102956	Thank you. On 4 December last year, one of those days was said to have had a good day in the office, because that was the day when a majority in the Parliament of the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party, i.e. the government signed an agreement on the green transition of road transport. It was a very fine, ambitious and good agreement for people and society, which made me very happy because we in the Danish Parliament ensured long-term and good framework conditions for the green transition of road transport in Denmark; as I said for the benefit of people and society and companies, but also for the benefit of the climate, because we are taking another step in the green reboot of Denmark. When we look at the transport, many families need one or more cars to make everyday life work together, and for the government it has been crucial that it is still possible for ordinary Danes to buy a family car, while at the same time boosting the green transition. It has been important for the government that the green transition takes place financially responsible and gives the maximum possible CO2 so that is why the draft law we are discussing in this Chamber today translates parts of the agreement just mentioned on the green transition of road transport. We have set ourselves an ambitious goal in Denmark to reduce our CO2 by 2030. We have already concluded a number of agreements in various areas which bring us a good deal along the road, and now the journey to the road transport area has come. The agreement, of which the bill translates parts, deals with funding and measures that will ensure 775,000 zero and low-emission cars by 2030; but that does not stop, because the ambition is to reach 1 million green cars by 2030. The proposed shift in vehicle taxes, which we are discussing, is therefore an important step on the road towards an ambitious green transition to road transport. For the Social Democrats, it is important that an ambitious green change in road transport makes it more attractive to buy zero and low-carbon cars and at the same time also bring peace to the car market for many years to come, and then, as I said, we must take account of transport needs throughout Denmark. It must continue to be possible to have a busy day-to-day relationship, including those where it requires two cars, perhaps far from the big cities in rural areas. Firstly, the bill will have to re-impose the registration fee so that in future the tax will be based on the value of the car and CO2 thereby taxing CO2 At the same time the tax will be levied on commercial cars and motorcycles and motorhomes, veteran cars, etc., so that they will follow the car conversion for passenger cars. The draft law thus contributes to the simplification of the tax system. Secondly, the draft law provides for a more relaxed phasing-in of registration fees than hitherto provided for zero and low-emission cars. Thirdly, the draft law increases the green owner tax, the weight tax and the countervailing charge for all taxable vehicles from the first tax period onwards. The changes in current charges mean, for example, that it will be DKK 20. more expensive a month to own a petrol car and 85 DKK. more expensive a month to own a diesel car. The green conversion of road transport is also a question of how many conventional cars are on the roads and how polluting they are. In addition, in the field of personal taxation, tax on free cars is adjusted so that the environmental supplement is more important in the tax base, while purchase price is less important. This provides an incentive for more green company car schemes. Finally, the legislative proposal raises the sub-economic base allowance for private rental of zero and low-emission cars, so that sharing green cars becomes more attractive, and so that we ensure better use of the current green cars. In the Social Democratic Party overall, we believe that the agreement, of which this bill implements parts, contributes to an ambitious green shift in road transport and to the achievement of the 70-percent objective in a way which, at the same time, takes into account the fact that everyday life around the country involves widely differing transport needs. The bill is thus in line with our work for a green transformation of Denmark, which is both financially responsible and in social balance. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103525	Thank you. There are brief comments. It's first, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103530	Everyone who knows about this knows that the introduction of registration fees on electric cars is not about promoting green conversion. If we look at a country like Norway that does not have registration fees on electric cars, it is now the case that more than 50%. of the cars sold in Norway are electric cars. So this is the way to go if you want to have a quick green transition to the car park. The way in which the government and the Social Democratic Party and Mr. Troels Ravn goes, is that you have to have the registration tax in the Treasury, and therefore you do not want to free the electric cars from registration tax, thus delaying the green transition. Will Mr. Troels Ravn at least agree with me that if you did not have registration fees on green electric cars, you would get a faster phasing-in of them, as in Norway?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103618	The fact is that we are redeploying the registration fee so that it is more targeted at vehicle CO2 This contributes to the simplification of the system. And a shift to a purely technically based tax would be a radical reform of the car tax system, which could involve major price changes for specific cars. And that would involve a great deal of uncertainty in estimating the behavioural and revenue consequences of such a change. In addition, it would have a distributional impact as it would not be possible to maintain the current progression of the tax. So a switch to a more technically based tax is not in itself an instrument for promoting electric cars, as it can be done with a change like this within the current system. So, because of the above, we have chosen not to convert the registration fee into a full technical tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103722	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103723	So there is something I have to point out. There was a time when sir... Troels Ravn was an excellent rapporteur in the field of school. Now, sir. Troels Ravn's tax rapporteur, and when you ask him a question, Mr. Troels Ravn just up from a paper that is not the answer to the question you have asked. It repeats itself over and over again in this matter, and I simply do not think that the Social Democrats can be familiar with the fact that they do not take the Folketing seriously and answer the questions that are being asked but simply read out of a paper. If sir... Troels Ravn cannot answer the questions we have, the Social Democrats must find another rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103756	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103757	As such, I do not really have an answer to that. Of course, I always try to answer the questions as fully as possible, including in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103811	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103814	Thank you. Now the rapporteur praises this agreement in broad terms, and in the alternative we must also admit that there are many good things in the agreement. What makes it so strongly criticized by some of the green organisations, for example. The Green Conversion and CONCITO Council is that it saves only 2.1 million. What is the rapporteur's view of the fact that there is such strong criticism from the green organisations in relation to the overall level, i.e. that this agreement is not ambitious enough in relation to CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103853	I mean, overall, with this agreement, we are also helping to move towards the final target of a 70-percent reduction in CO2 emissions. With this agreement, we are reducing by up to 2 million. In general terms, with the initiatives taken by the government on the environment in relation to the climate, we have already achieved one third of the final objective. So the agreement here is part of the government's overall effort to meet the overall objective of a 70-percent reduction. And I think that is very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103940	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121103942	Yeah, well, it was all the facts... so a description of the facts. What I asked was: what does the rapporteur think about the agreement being so strongly criticised by some of those who have the most understanding of CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104006	Well, as always in the legislative work, we listen to the stakeholders, we read the consultation answers, and we try to accommodate it in the best way possible. And then it's an agreement that finally has to be worked together and hold and find a majority. I believe that we have found a very good balance here, also in relation to the environmental and precisely the overall objective of achieving a reduction in CO2 by 2030. We know that road transport is one of the major culprits in relation to CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104044	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104048	Now the rapporteur says a lot about this having to take account of people who cannot get a green car. But can the rapporteur tell me: does it come with this bill here to become more expensive or cheaper to have a car for the ordinary Dane who can't afford a green car and who may live in a place where it's hard to have a green car?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104113	With this proposal for a directive, we are giving clear incentives to switch to green transport and are also motivating us to move from a black car to a green car in the long term. Black cars are becoming a little more expensive, green cars are becoming cheaper over the years, and there have also been clear considerations about funding. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is absolutely necessary for the sake of climate, for the sake of reducing CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104212	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104214	I am glad that the rapporteur says that buying a black car will be more expensive, because it is true, but it will also be more expensive to have a black car. Even if you do not change your car, your weight tax increases and something is going to happen with the countervailing charge that makes it more expensive, especially if it is a diesel car and the fuel tax increases. All these things make it more expensive for the ordinary Dane, perhaps a worker who lives at Stevns or something, and who goes to work in Fakse. It is becoming more expensive to have a car to get to work, and I just want you to be honest about that. Then it may well be that you have a priority that it should not be too much more expensive, but it will be more expensive. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104254	It will be marginally more expensive to have a so-called black car, about DKK 1,000. More expensive a year, and in the case of registration fees it is about DKK 2,500. Now I will be careful not to say what a former prime minister once said: 2,000 kroner. is not a significant amount. I think it was Lars Løkke Rasmussen who came to say that 2,000 kroner. was not a significant amount. It is for me, and it is for the Social Democrats, but we still believe that there is social and economic balance in this proposal and that we are meeting different driving needs. The Left itself had the ambition of a million green cars financed by the room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104338	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104340	I would like to ask further to what the rapporteur of the Left asked. Because this is how a microcar, that is to say, the tiny segment, increases on average $5,100. only in the case of registration fee. If you buy a Tesla Model 3, you get a discount of DKK 176,000. I think that a lot of people still can't afford, even if there's a big discount, for a Tesla. So I would just like to know whether the Socialist rapporteur can confirm that this affects people who do not have a lot of money, and people who need car number two, because they may live in the countryside or have a long way to work, that is to say, ordinary Danes out there who cannot afford to buy a large electric car as an alternative, now get a rather nasty extra tax bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104424	I mean, compared to this thing with the creepy one, I think it's moderate 20 kroner. a month, 80 kroner. a month or a total of DKK 2,500. per month of registration fee. These are moderate price increases which allow people, including in rural areas, to finance a car and perhaps even to finance two cars. It is important to look at the different driving needs that people can have, and at the same time also to motivate you to switch to a green car: a low- or zero-emission car. But we have clearly made an agreement in which the cheap middle-class cars gain the best advantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104530	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104532	But what is the logic in that it must be a microcar that has to rise quite sharply if it is car number two that you use alone to get to work, but is not the primary car you otherwise use on weekends when you are going on family visits? Well, why do they have to be punished with this? Why do people who live in rural areas or just need a car to drive their children to school or whatever it may be have to pay 5,100 kr. more so that those who have a lot of money can get over DKK 170,000. discount on an electric car? The electric car is not an alternative, because if you buy a micro-class petrol car compared to buying a micro-class electric car, the difference is still over DKK 90,000, so it is not an alternative for them to buy an electric car.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104610	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104612	So, as I have said about the micro-car, the argument there is that it is very rarely a family's primary car, but car number two or car number three, and, as we have screwed up the charging system here, we remove the favouritism that has hitherto been, of the very expensive luxury electric cars, and instead we make it more advantageous to trade and buy intermediate cars. And as I said earlier, this proposal takes very much into account the fact that we have different driving needs around Denmark, and we must take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104652	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104653	Over the last few months and again today we have heard from the Social Democrats and the government that it is a time of crisis; that it is hard; that there are people who become unemployed; that there are companies that are having a hard time. Does the rapporteur really think that this is the right time to make it more expensive to be a Dane and make it more expensive to operate? Are we really in a situation right now where it's the right medicine to do that? And can the rapporteur not confirm that a change could have been made without it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104738	Well, in New Citizen, there is also outside this agreement. And so it is for some parties that you have easier sitting in the back rows and then being very critical than going in and taking responsibility. I think that making it more expensive to be a Dane is a consumed expression. Well, this gives a marginal price increase over the years compared to having a black car. We still take into account the fact that people in all parts of the country have different driving needs. And the financing of this ambitious agreement is an ambitious agreement, both in relation to a green transition for our climate, but also in relation to the fact that people, societies and businesses must be able to work in this way, we have then knitted together in such a way that we can continue to have a welfare society, that we can maintain a welfare society and that we can develop a welfare society. This is obviously important for social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104830	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104831	Well, that's pure black talk coming from the platform. I'm sorry, but it is. I ask a simple question whether it is not true that you could have done this reform without it being a simple question, so I would like an answer to that, i.e. whether you could have made this arrangement without it becoming more expensive and that it is a political priority to choose to make it more expensive for some.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104905	Well, I actually think I said that. That this is black talk for New Citizens is a pity. However, I am saying that we are going to finance this agreement so that we do not go in and take all the funding out of economic space, because we will not then have the opportunity to maintain the existing welfare society and develop our welfare society. It is a clear political priority, yes, precise, and it is a priority that completely escapes with the interests of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121104933	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then there's a despriting. Thank you. Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105004	Thank you, and thank you for the floor. We are now discussing the implementation of the political agreement on green road transport. It's a deal we really wanted to be a part of. We had a desire to achieve 1 million green cars by 2030, because a green shift in road transport is important in order to achieve the 70-percent target by 2030. That is why we have been very committed to the negotiations. The government wanted 1⁄2 million green cars by 2030, and the result is then landed on 715,000 green cars, 60,000 green vans. And I would like to thank all those who, together with us, have fought to bring the government to a more ambitious level. We think it is very positive that, after all, we have come this far. So thank you for the cooperation we have had in the negotiations. We're sorry we didn't make it all the way to the end. That's the way it is sometimes. And when that is the case, of course, because there are some things that we do not agree with in the draft law. Here I would like to highlight the points with which we disagree. We think that one of the problems is that it is not ambitious enough and we think that the ambition of 1 million green cars is too loosely formulated. In addition, we see another disadvantage, namely that the bill is passed on to the Danes. It has simply not been decided to give priority to the green conversion and to set aside enough money to invest in this. Instead, you pass the bill on. That is true, among other things. This is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution on the situation of women in the European Community, which was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Women's Rights. kr. in 2025-2030; a 1 billion truck tax. kr. a year, which makes it harder to operate in rural areas in Denmark because you have to pay more, the longer you drive on the roads; an increase in the weight tax, which also makes it more expensive for the Danes who already have a car and cannot afford to change it; and an increase in the fuel consumption tax, which gives extra costs to the fuel suppliers. The bill lacks to explain the massive cross-border trade that is expected with fuel as a result of this bill. As far as I am aware, about 320 tonnes of CO2 is expected, that is to say, that part of the reduction is not, as such, because it is not being used, but it is because it is being traded on the other side of the border, and then it should not be included in the accounts here. That's a little weird. Then there's a lot of other things. There are, for example: veteran cars, where you set up the tax. Of course, we find this worrying, because it is becoming more expensive, and it is not, of course, because it is the kind of person you drive to work in. It's a hobby car. We welcome the fact that the originality requirement has been dropped, but there are still some things that need to be clarified in this context. Then one of the things we wonder about is ■ and we also wonder about it, because we have actually participated in the negotiations as long as we have ■ that there is no model that works. How can an agreement be negotiated without being able to calculate the tax afterwards? It's only June 1st that you can start calculating the tax on these cars. And what does that mean? Well, that means that there is confusion about, for example. the tax on vans, because you cannot quite understand it from the draft law. That means that sales are stalling. It also means that FDM advises its members not to buy green cars until this is solved because you don't know if you buy the cat in the bag. Surely it is deeply problematic that you do not know what is going on. Auto industry and others points out that between January and May, car dealers have to pay too high a tax to the National Motors Agency and they do not know when they will get it back. That is perhaps why the second legislative proposal we were discussing just now, L 139, has chosen to postpone the registration fee. But it would have been pretty to put it into this bill when it's something that's come as a hearing response to this bill. It's a bad idea to divide it into two different laws. I simply do not understand that approach, because we need to look at things in a context and show whether we listen to people or not, and we need to take things seriously and give it proper legal treatment. You don't do that this way. So I think it is quite worrying that you have simply made an agreement that you cannot calculate, so that the Danes, the car industry and all sorts of others are faced with enormous uncertainty. Well, let me say that overall, we can say that the agreement makes traditional cars more expensive. That's not surprising. It also makes it more expensive for those who already have a car and who do not change the car. So it's not just something you can choose for, and you can buy a car, that is to say it's an incentive for which car you buy, but there are also those who can't actually afford to change cars, it's going to be more expensive for, so it makes it harder to live in rural areas and have a job somewhere else, i.e. a low-wage job where the economy isn't that big. At the same time, however, it also makes it more expensive to operate in rural areas, because this truck tax, which is imposed, will apply on all roads of the state. That is to say, it is on Bornholm, it is in North Jutland, it is everywhere. All roads have to count, and so it will be disproportionately more expensive to operate in rural areas. So it's a bias. The conclusion is that we really would have liked to have been included in an agreement. We would have liked it to have been even more ambitious, but we would have liked to have invested in it and ensured that it had been green, but also to keep our hands under the Danes. Against this background, the Left cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105520	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first one's for sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105525	We think this agreement should have been much more ambitious. We think we should have done what we ourselves propose in our own climate plan, namely to make black cars more expensive, to make electric cars cheaper, especially those at the lower end, and to make social compensation through the green cheque. This is not at all the level of ambition that this agreement sets out, although it is a step in the right direction. But I have to admit that what makes me speak is that I think it is flying around with figures from the Left here. Well, can't the Left just confirm that from 2021 to 2025 more funds will be added to the car area in connection with this agreement? In other words, there is not just a change in the car sector; more money is actually being provided. And how the hell is it possible to stand on Parliament's platform and say that it will be more expensive to be a Dane in connection with the legislation on this agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105627	Fortunately, I don't have to worry about my colleagues. But I would say that the rapporteur will listen more carefully to what I am saying. From 2025-2030 this agreement increases the displacement requirement, so it's going to be more expensive by 4.4 billion. kr.It's 2025-2030. I didn't say anything with 2021-2025. Then it may well be that the rapporteur is beginning to hear me about all the figures in the agreement. I don't have the deal up here. I'm sorry. I can't check the whole deal. I am only talking about the things that actually apply, and there is a problem for us that it will be so much more expensive from 2025 onwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105701	Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105702	Well then, it's basic that I don't understand what it really means and how to define it when the Left says it's going to be more expensive to be a Dane. So that means that if you add a billion euro to the car area to promote electric cars and the temporary aid then ends in 2025, it will be more expensive to be a Dane because there is a temporary, what should you say, tax relief, as it is in reality that will end in 2025, it would not be more natural to look at the fact that from 2021 to 2025 more money has been added to the area in order to promote electric cars in particular? Basically, I do not understand how it is defined at all that being a Dane becomes more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105738	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105739	Well, it's about whether the bill the Danes have to pay is going to be bigger together or not. In fact, we had made it so that you could make an exception here for cars, so you could move it around. So we were open to moving things around, but overall it is from 2021-2030 a tax increase or a cost increase, for example. because of the displacement requirement. So that's the total number. It is also because something like that, for example. The displacement requirement is not necessarily an income for the state, but it is not the same as that it is not an expense for the Danes. That's why you have to see it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105811	Then it's mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105813	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I mean, frankly, I'm just really sorry that the Left is not part of such an agreement, because I see the Left as a party that generally takes responsibility for the major agreements that benefit communities and people, both here and now and on the long stretch. And I think it sounds a little hollow when I hear this consumed expression, that it must not be more expensive to be a Dane, and that this is not ambitious enough, because there is a contradiction there. Left has an ambition of 1 million electric cars by 2030. But how will the Left finance the one million electric cars? Should it be of the scope and therefore of the money for which we can develop the welfare society, or will we place the bill on conventional cars and thus make it even more expensive than this agreement envisages having a driving need, for example in rural areas? I believe that the Left owes it to us to give clear answers to those questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105919	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105921	I must first clarify a misunderstanding. We haven't said 1 million electric cars, we have said 1 million greens It's actually not the same, because in green cars also includes hybrid cars, plugin cars and similar ones, so that's why it's a broader term than just electric cars. In the Left, we have set aside money on our financial bill to implement a green agreement, and we are also willing to put more money off from the scope to invest in an ambitious green agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105952	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121105955	The rapporteur says that in their financial bill, the Left has set aside money for green cars. As I understand it, the Left has calculated that it would cost only 1.4 billion. kr. to reach the ambition of 1 million green cars by 2030. That figure is totally misleading compared to the calculations I have seen from the Treasury, which estimates that it would result in a smaller revenue of 9.2 billion. kr. Can the rapporteur explain that difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110029	After all, we cannot read it completely in the financial bill, which only applies to 2021 and not to all the remaining years up to 2030. That is why we must not just read it in the 2021 financial act. But we had looked at different models. We've been over at the Ministry looking at different models, and we were open to looking at different solutions. We were also open to look at how you could also forward-lookingly ensure a greater incentive to choose the green cars, but for us it has been important that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane, and therefore it should not affect those who already had a car in the way that this does.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110059	Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110102	Thank you to the rapporteur for trying to explain the tax freeze on the Left. It's still a little unclear, but it's exciting to find out. At least now we know that tariffs do not count. We found out about this the other day when we dealt with an energy proposal, but when it comes to what derived effect there must be for what fuel then costs for a truck driver, it suddenly counts. But there are two lines below the revenue impact of this car agreement, and there are just 2.5 billion being added. kr., and then there's not much to discuss anymore. But is it the case that if the Left itself had to make this car agreement, there would not be a single tax, either a countervailing charge, a green owner tax or a registration tax that would increase for a car that drives on diesel or petrol? Is it to be understood that not one tax would increase for cars operating on diesel or petrol?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110156	No, I think the rapporteur needs to listen a little more closely. First of all, a tax freeze is, after all, about taxes and taxes, not about the prices that energy companies demand. That's one of the differences. We do not decide what others charge in price for their goods. Basically, it is not one of our principles that we should decide. When it comes to taxes, we were open, as I also said, I think it was Mr. Rune Lund, or it was for Mr. Lund. Troels Ravn is very sorry that I don't quite remember it to screw the registration fee, because it's a choice you make when you have to buy a new car. So we were open to that. Where we are concerned is when it costs something here and now for people who do not have the opportunity to make a choice. Because otherwise you'll go in and make an active choice, and it's a choice you can make, and then you can say: I'll choose it or it, or I'll continue with what I have now. It's an opportunity you can take. So we would have been open to that and would have liked to have been in an agreement, because we think it would be positive that we can get as far as possible on green road transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110253	Signe Munk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110256	That was a clear answer. You are actually willing to put up the charges that are being set up in this agreement that you then vote against. In relation to the displacement requirement for fuel, it is true that when you make a greater demand for the inclusion of some real green fuels, then the fuel is per. A liter more expensive. Is it the policy of the Left that one is against a CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110326	After all, the rapporteur just simplified the bill to deal only with registration fees. As I mentioned, there are, among other things. The displacement requirement, as the rapporteur has also mentioned here. There's the truck tax of 1 billion. kr. a year. There is an increase in the weight tax. There is fuel consumption tax, etc. So there's a lot of charges going up in this bill. And yes, when you put the displacement requirement on top and you don't compensate the Danes for giving them an extra cost, but just counting it as a cost to the state, it's a problem that you don't also look at that this also makes it more expensive to be a Dane. This also helps make it harder actually to have a job in the province and go to work somewhere else. It is problematic that one does not recognise the problem, it is for ordinary Danes to be able to afford to go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110406	Then it's Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110419	Thank you so much. I would like to sign for the rapporteur's speech and for Mrs Louise Schack Elholm to try to explain why it is that the Left is not in this agreement. We in the Radical Left are, if any, sad and had hoped until the last minute that you would jump anyway. It is a great deal of your merit that it actually became so what should I say considerate and round as it was anyway. However, when I just jump up here, it is because I think that, as the other rapporteurs have also pointed out, there are quite a lot of explaining problems, and one of the things I am aware of is that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm believes that there is no choice for the ordinary Dane. When we talk about what it's like in rural areas, when you're buying a new car, you can choose between a green car and a black car just like any other car owner. One's income base has nothing to do with geography; it has something to do with social conditions. You can be just as pressured when you live in Copenhagen's Western Region as you can be if you live in West Jutland. When you live in West Jutland you have a carport, and when you live in the West, you may live in a floor property, so in reality we have more supply problems in floor buildings than we do in rural areas. Will the rapporteur at least confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110520	After all, I think that the questioner lacks the problem or variant, that you can also choose to keep the car you have, and that you can, as long as the economy of the car you have does not change, and it does so with this agreement, precisely because you increase the weight tax, you increase the countervailing charge, you increase the fuel consumption tax and the displacement requirement. These are the things that make it not just a matter of choice when you need a new car, it is also a question of whether you can afford to keep the car you have. And why am I talking about rural areas all the time? This is because the public infrastructure is much better in Copenhagen than it is at Stevns or it is in White Sande. It is not as easy to get to work with public transport in rural areas as it is in the city, and therefore it becomes a matter of whether you can afford to take that job or not you can afford it. And that is actually where I see the biggest challenge, and it is the question of whether you can actually afford to take the job, because I would like as many as possible in Denmark to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110621	Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110626	I simply do not recognise that living in the countryside and driving in a green car from, for example, a major problem. Stevns for Faxe. There is also such a short commuter distance that you can easily drive in a hybrid car and then drive on electricity alone, which is also what a lot of hybrid drivers do. When you buy a car from the start, you can e.g. This is why we have agreed to raise the tax on micro-cars. For us in the Radical Left, it seems that the original proposal of the Left for the agreement here was a much tougher version than the soft version we have made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110702	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110706	That's right. I hope, then, that as many people as possible choose a hybrid car or green car, that is what the whole idea is to do, but some people just cannot afford it because they are more expensive than ordinary cars. Not everyone can afford the luxury of making that choice, and they are in a situation now that they have a black car that is becoming more expensive, and perhaps they cannot afford to keep it, and they cannot afford to buy a green car, nor can they afford to buy a black car, and they may not be able to take the train or the bus to work, because there are no transport options. So what do they end up being forced to do? To quit working! And that's a sad situation to end up in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110741	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121110803	Here we are discussing a bill which deals with the fact that ordinary Danes who depend on their cars to get to work and who may also need a second car, not for fun, but because both have a job that lies a bit away, have to pay more. People living in rural areas, where you need a car to come in and trade or follow children to leisure interests, now have to pay more both in registration tax, but also in current taxes, because people who can afford to have a large electric car have to have a nasty tax discount. This is actually very clear if you look at the examples in the material sent out by the Ministry of Taxation itself. A microcar on petrol will increase by an average of DKK 5,100 when you buy it, and it is only in registration fee. On the other hand, if you take a large Tesla Model 3, it gets a discount of DKK 176,000, which is totally wrong and proof that the government and the support parties have forgotten that there are a lot of Danes out there who need to have a car to make everyday life hang together. Then, of course, you could say that those who then buy a microcar as car number two, because they are so unfortunate that both have a long way to go to work, just had to buy an electric car instead. If you take the microcar again, it costs an average of 108,000 kroner. If you take a similar car in an electric car version, it costs DKK 205,000. So there's a difference of 92,000 kroner. I don't think most people can afford to pay $92,000. extra to get a similar car just with another engine and on another propellant. I would say that it is actually a very high price that you pay for this agreement, in order to reach a certain number of electric cars, because with the agreement you reach 775,000 green cars by 2030, and then if you go a little further, it is 1 million electric cars that you reach in 2033. But hey, the electric car commission came out with a report before you made this deal, which said that if we didn't do anything and so just drove on with the registration fees and other things we had, we'd get 1 million electric cars in 2035. You reach 1 million electric cars 2 years earlier, but then you send out a huge bill to a lot of Danes who depend on their car. I think it is a huge fuss to get started in order to achieve a goal that would be achieved no matter what, two years earlier. I think it is completely forgotten that there are a lot of people out there who need a car to make everyday life hang together. And those who win on it are the ones with the high incomes who can afford to buy a giant Tesla. Another thing is that I think the rules are quite opaque. Yeah, yeah, you remove a lot of deductions from harness alarms and airbags and stuff like that, but you could have put them together in the old rules and then let it go on as a bottom allowance. I think it is a pity that we repeatedly make tax rules which make it completely impossible for the ordinary Dane to sit down and figure out what to actually pay for a car in tax if you imported a used electric car or petrol car from Germany or somewhere else. It was the negative stuff. But I would also like to spend some of my speaking time actually saying that there are also some positive things in the draft law. It is, among other things, that the rules on company cars are being changed, where the environmental surcharge is being increased in order to reduce registration fees in return. So there is a greater incentive to choose the green company car. This is something we have been arguing for in the Danish People's Party for a very long time, and it is, after all, positive that it has been included, even though we are not in the agreement. So praise for that part. I also think it is good that there is an increased share-economic deduction. It's typical of a company called GoMore. If you rent out your car, you can get 10,000 kroner today. in the base deduction. That deduction is increased so that you get a greater incentive to share your car and thus may not buy a car, but maybe get better use of the car you have. We also think that is very positive. I should also like to pay tribute to the fact that, after all, we are actually getting rid of the barracks in the sense that if you have bought them in your agreement, you will not get registration fees on that part. So it has to be said, after all, that there are some positive things in the agreement. But with the first part, which I also spent the most on in my speech, the Danish People's Party cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111203	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111208	Thank you. The reason I just got up here is that the rapporteur came up with a rather interesting calculation at the beginning of the speech, namely that if you buy a new black car, it costs DKK 102,000, I think it was, and if you buy the same model in an electric version, it is DKK 205,000. What you do when you buy a green car is at least with the new registration system that you look at the car's total cost. If you have a driving requirement of 25,000 km per year, a microcar will have a need for petrol, which costs in the region of 25,000-27,000 DKK, depending on how far you drive. I know that because I've been driving around a Fiat 500 myself before I changed my car. When you switch to an electric car, your total fuel bill, if you buy on a subscription, goes down to one third of that amount, about DKK 9,000. That's an annual saving of $18,000 to $20,000 depending on how far you're going. This means that an electric car is remunerated in five years. Can the rapporteur confirm that after five years it will still become cheaper to drive an electric car if you buy one of these instead of a black car?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111318	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111320	Well, there is no doubt that an electric car is cheaper in operation once you have it so that it is a cheaper propellant. But I cannot necessarily confirm the calculation that is being set up, because typically you want the microcar as car number two, or it is people who have a very small driving need. It can, for example, be done. be pensioners who buy a car but do not have a great driving need and who do not often drive around with children in the car or other things. They'd make very little of it compared to this equation because they're not going far to work, like me. I drove yesterday from Herning to Copenhagen. So I think the vast majority wouldn't think it was very profitable to give $90,000. more for an electric micro-car than for a micro-petrol car. So for the vast majority, it'll just be an extra bill where you don't get anything out of it. But it is true that those who drive very long will typically make the most of having a cheaper propellant, as you do with an electric car.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111405	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111408	[Sound emission]... that is, perhaps a long way along the way, the rapporteur might actually agree to vote in favour of this agreement, because there may still be some things in it that make a great deal of sense. Perhaps it is also about some of the good things the rapporteur himself says, namely that we are getting better at sharing our cars. If there is a pensioner who has a small car standing there that he only uses to shop in, could it be that what he buys his microcar for can actually be earned on a deduction to report the car to GoMore?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111441	No, I must honestly say that I do not intend to vote in favour of this bill. However, if it had been divided, I would have liked to have voted in favour of the positive things, and that is one of them. This is a good idea, because it is also a good idea to change the company cars, which I think makes good sense as well. But I just want to give you another price example. If you take a Toyota Yaris Hybrid, which is also one that runs far on the liter, then it will be 16.800 kroner. More expensive with this. I mean, one of the cars that we actually want people to drive will also be significantly more expensive. What is the logic of that? It is not even because it is one of the black cars; it is a car that is quite environmentally friendly, and it must also have a proper upward pressure. So I think it's too bad you've screwed it up like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111517	Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111521	Thank you, and thank the rapporteur for a balanced speech, in which, after all, the rapporteur also addressed some of the areas of the agreement which the rapporteur considers to be positive. But I hear the rapporteur say that if we had not made this agreement, this million green cars would come all by themselves. I would like to ask the rapporteur if it would be free of charge, because would it not be that way in the old agreement if we had not made this agreement, but had just continued to remain unchanged that it would actually have made a big cut in the economic space because, for example, very expensive luxury electric cars were favoured in the old agreement? We are now making an agreement in which we are actually creating a social balance where it will be the middle-class cars and not the large luxurious electric cars that are being favoured. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111625	It is true that if you did nothing, you would reach 1 million electric cars by 2035 instead of 2033. So now we get them two years earlier for a huge bill that you send to the many Danes who can't afford an electric car. It is true that it will cost something when more people drive an electric car, but it is, of course, included in the economic projections, so it is in principle already funded. We could actually live with the fact that electric cars are basically cheaper, because when everyone drives electric cars, people also have cheaper cars in tax terms than they do today. We could actually live with that. But then they would not have bothered all those who have a long way to work or need two cars because they live in the countryside or whatever it might be. So we could actually live with that. So without doing anything, we'd get exactly the same number just two years later.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111707	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111709	Is it not true, though, that if we had not changed the tax system, it would have cost the economic space to continue with the old agreement which favoured very expensive electric cars? Is this a policy supported by the Danish People's Party? It must also be seen in relation to what we are doing now that we are making it more socially balanced. Now I am taking a leap to something else: we are talking about meeting the driving needs in all parts of the country. That is quite right, and we have endeavoured to do so in this agreement. In the years to come, you must also be able to have a black car. But is it not true that it costs 20 kroner? more a month to own a petrol car and 85 DKK. more a month to own a diesel car?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111757	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111800	The question of the room for manoeuvre is, after all, such a little technical discussion, which I think is going to pass by quite a lot. But the room for manoeuvre is calculated on the basis of the tax rules that exist today, so it does not cost anything in the room. One might say that there is a bill that is being picked up over time, but it is calculated into it because the room for manoeuvre is being calculated according to the rules that already apply. So it's not like we're going out to find money for that extra bill. It has been incorporated into the economic projections. So if nothing had been done, 1 million electric cars would have been reached by 2035 without us going to find out what we would have to do if we had to put other taxes up or if we had to cut in the public sector. They've been calculated in those projections. Such are the rules made in the Ministry of Finance, so it is not such an extra bill that will be put in. So it's just that with this, you're bothering a lot of people to reach a target two years earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111839	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. It's time to get drunk. Thank you. Mrs. Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121111906	Thank you so much. I have looked forward to today, to the first reading of our agreement on a greener toll system, but every time I think about this agreement, I think about how it became so excellent. It did so very much because it was a joint project across the middle of Danish politics a long way along the way. It balances all the many with all the many green ambitions, because we spent time finding each other. Nevertheless, our colleagues in the Left skipped at the last minute. I still do not understand that today, even though the rapporteur has provided the best attempt so far to explain what it really was that the Left did not like. That is why I have written a small letter to the left: Dear Left. Anders Fogh Rasmussen's tax stop was not dogmatic. It had a built-in flexibility that meant that one could raise the tax in one place if one lowered it somewhere else. And that is exactly what we are doing in this reform. For yes, we are raising the tax on black cars as intended, and then we are reducing it considerably more on green cars than we are raising it on black cars, so the overall tax cuts in this reform amount to 2.5 billion. kr. Until 2025. That's 2.5 billion. kr., which is taken from the green space, which was also included in the Left. It is, of course, also in addition to the facilities of 10 billion. kr., which was the basis of the general base projection from the old system. The Left also started with the same goal as us in Radicals, namely 1 million green cars by 2030. You stuck to the negotiations and were directly instrumental in ending up with a much greener agreement than the government proposed. So I don't understand your argument for being out of the deal. Your fingerprints are all over it and good for it. But you chose the dogma rather than the green visions, and that worries me, because we are facing a new political era with challenges that require new paradigms. Don't you think it's time to put the tax paradigm in the drawer? Do you perhaps experience that voters reward you for the approach to politics, or have the voters lured that new political visions are needed to deal with the challenges of the future? So dear friends in the Left: we miss the agile, snug, forward-looking Left, which takes responsibility for the great structural reforms, even when you do not have the power. With loving and concerned greetings to the Radical Left. With these words, of course, we are voting in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112147	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments, first from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112155	Thank you. It sounds almost as if the Radical Left is more interested in getting the Left into the agreement than in getting an agreement that meets the challenges we face in achieving our 70% reduction. CO2 What the rapporteur says is that it is actually an excellent agreement. The rapporteur is not impressed by the fact that several of the green organisations are so critical of the agreement for not being strong enough on the absolute bottom line, and it is CO2t CO2 that the rapporteur also says that it is good that the Left is involved in making this agreement considerate and round. Is it ambitious enough to achieve one of the world's largest and most ambitious climate targets, i.e. a 70-percent CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112304	There were many questions along the way, and I'm just trying to circle it in. Of course we went into this with exactly the same green ambitions as Mr. Torsten Gejl also did, and the rapporteur knows that too. And I think, in fact, that when you hit such a negotiating table and the calculations that come from the Climate Ministry and from the Treasury, you will have to land it somewhere. For example: We are extremely pleased that when we spoke of displacement demands, we actually changed and massaged some demands around the second generation ILUC etc. So we're really happy there. We would, of course, have liked to have gone further, and I also believe that the Danes are a long way along the way more ready for the green transition than the government may think. We have seen since September that green car sales for newly registered cars have remained fairly stable at 30%, so I also believe that in future we will see when we return to the agreement and make our pit stop in 2025, that we have a completely different scenario where the car park is more green and where, moreover, we have got much more into public transport. Because this is the next blow we are going to talk about when we are going to talk about the future infrastructure agreement. It must also be as green as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112410	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112414	Now the alternative wasn't invited to these negotiations, so we couldn't make our bid. If we had just been there, we would at least have tried to raise the level of ambition quite strongly, for example. in relation to the production of cars. The agreement allows there to be 600,000 more cars on the streets by 2030, and much of that CO2 What is the reason why, for example, Radical Left has not struggled to reduce
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112446	The number of cars will be reduced by improving public transport, and we are fighting for this too. We're not interested in more cars coming on the roads, but that's what we're going to do, whether we made this deal or not. So we're actually trying to make the cars that drive on the roads greener. That is the goal. For asphalt is not in itself evil, but it is what runs on the asphalt that can hurt the climate if we do not do something that we have done here. Besides, I don't quite recognize the cost of production. It is true that in the past there have been problems with lithium production and so on, but very much technology is happening at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112521	Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112524	Mrs Kathrine Ollldag has got it all figured out that there is a difference between purchase price and paying for the operation of a car, and that is very good. I would like Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday to deal with something. When you have this condition, that it's more expensive to buy an electric car, but cheaper to drive in it, and we know that it's cheaper and cheaper to buy the electric car, and that at some point there's some balance in this budget that makes people all by themselves want to buy an electric car, what does it mean that you put 80 per cent. the world's highest registration fee on the purchase of the electric car, in other words where it is more expensive to buy and where it has a non-competitive advantage in terms of competition? What does this mean for the spread of electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112617	We do not know that, and neither does the rapporteur when we hit the second half of the 2020s, and when we start phasing in the registration tax on electric cars. Right now we're freeing up to 600,000, as I remember, plus/minus, in that area, I don't remember exactly. If it is that the rapporteur is talking about luxury cars, I have to say that we have gone into this with completely open eyes and that, in the case of a luxury electric car, a Porsche, we really have no problem with a higher tax, because we also believe that segment is willing to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112654	But we expect forever and ever, as far as the eye can see, electric cars will be more expensive in purchasing than petrol and diesel cars and, on the other hand, they are cheaper in operation. What does it mean, you put 80 percent. the world's highest registration fee on the purchase price of an electric car, when we know that electric cars have a disadvantage? What does it mean for the spread of electric cars that, where they are more expensive, a very high tax is levied on the cost, while there is no corresponding high tax on the operation of the cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112730	But there is no point in the rapporteur simply repeating his question and trying to respond to what I think the rapporteur is asking. At the moment, the cheapest new electric car costs in the region of DKK 160,000. and has a range of 300 km or something in that layer, and most commuters can do that within. You can just go into the car base and look for yourself. Moreover, there are already a great many used electric cars, so I find it very difficult to see what the rapporteur really thinks. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112801	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112805	I would also like to thank you for your cooperation. I think we had excellent cooperation in the context of the agreement on green road transport. Nevertheless, I believe that the rapporteur has misunderstood something, because we did not leave. The government stopped calling us, and that's kind of a difference. In other words, we fought to the end to be able to participate, but of course in a way where we could also see ourselves in it; where we could keep to the tax freeze that the rapporteur really says the Left has had as a policy since Anders Fogh Rasmussen's time, because that is not a new tax freeze. And we were also open to an agility and I think the rapporteur knows that from the negotiations we have had. But overall it should not be more expensive to be a Dane as a result of the agreement, and unfortunately it was. So it is more to give an answer, since the rapporteur was kind enough to read out a letter which I have not received yet, unfortunately; it may be that it is our President who has received it. But we wanted to be there, and we hadn't given it up. I think it was us who were abandoned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112854	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112856	I think we just have two very different experiences of that, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, in terms of who actually gave up who in the end. At any rate, I know that we tried to lure you into this at the last minute, and that's why I'm very annoyed that you chose a dogmatic tax freeze rather than a common sense of snuff to join this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112921	Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121112930	I hadn't actually marked for one more question, but I can think of something. Well, I guess that's how it's always gonna be with history writing. I certainly hope that this is not the end of cooperation across the middle, because we want to work together across the middle. But I also hope for an understanding that we have some important things for the Left which, of course, we would always like to have been respected in the agreements; then we would also like to be included in some broad agreements. I hope that this can be seen by the way we generally make our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113002	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113005	Well, I'd just like to sign for that. After all, it is wonderful to hear that there are still really sensible people in the Left. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113015	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113034	Thank you. The agreement that lies here must be dealt with. This is, of course, the first step in the green transition of transport. Special attention is being paid to car taxes, and that is part of transport. And I think critics and transport enthusiasts have said: whoa, whoa, whoa, do you think only cars are in the transport sector? No, of course we don't think so, but you just have to say that many Danes need a car, and we can't get all of them to change over to the bus, no matter how much a good SF's like myself would have it. That is why we also need to make the cars rolling on the roads greener. It is basically about what drives the car forward. Is it diesel and gasoline, is it electricity, or is it a mixture in between? All we know is that it matters how we organise our car tax system. There have been a number of years in which it has been a little back and forth and where there have been some short timescales, both in relation to what the tax should be on the electricity with which you think your car and in relation to what the registration fee should be for an electric car or a hybrid car. That is why I think it is fundamentally good that in this agreement we should now look 10 years ahead, but also recognise that this is a rapidly developing market. And all the rapporteurs who have been sitting here and taking part in the negotiations have probably experienced the same puzzle as I have, in terms of whether you can actually figure out how much electric cars will cost in ten years' time. There are different estimates of what the cost of production will be. I guess we're all pretty sure they're gonna fall in price, but how much, and how fast? That is why I think it is basically good that we say that there is a pit stop in 2025. Because if we're gonna face each other, we're actually all gonna believe that this deal can deliver more than the number of cars we're putting under on paper now, with the knowledge we have today. We think it is basically good that we get a tax rebate that applies to the vast majority of electric cars, but that we also say: If you have to get up and have that, and I have become known for saying "a blow-up car," then you can pay a little extra in registration fee even if it is running on electricity. And so we will also phase the electric cars into our registration tax system over time. In addition, we think it is good that we have created safety around something that is really important for whether the Danes buy a green car, namely what it costs to charge them. And it is important, then, that there is security in relation to the fact that there is virtually no electricity tax on electric cars, that is to say the process flow charge, because it also matters how we can get to grips with the next discussion that comes, namely: how are we going to spread the good charging infrastructure? Because what we can see is that when people go out to buy a car, including a new electric car, it does of course matter what it costs, both in relation to purchasing, but of course also in relation to the total ownership costs, i.e. total cost of ownership, and then, of course, the charging options also mean something. We are also pleased that it is an agreement that gives a boost to cyclists, both in terms of laying out some more bicycle paths and in terms of promoting e-cycling. But there's just a lot more to be done. There are major infrastructure negotiations where the cut is to be made between roads, buses and railway lines. There will also be new discussions on how to create cities with less air pollution. Should environmental zones be used more? There's the clear answer from SF: Yes, you do. So for the people who I know share my climate enthusiasm and who I know think that a lot more needs to be done, my answer is just: yes, it has to be, and we are not finished. This is a step on the road where we have got to grips with car taxes. There's no doubt that if I had written this text myself and SF had 90 mandates and now it's probably a little gibberish in Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the charges would probably have increased somewhat more on the black cars. Because that's one of the tools we can use to get people to switch to green cars. And we would have liked there to have been a toll, but the reality is that, of course, there should also be an agreement. There were also some tools in which we had to recognise that we could not get through with that. So, of course, this is an agreement which is also an expression of a compromise, but which is basically a green step in the right direction. But it is not the end, period, finished with the green transition of transport. It is a step on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113515	Thank you. There are a number of questioners. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113520	What the SF has agreed here is that we should move from a very low level of registration fee on green electric cars to a very high level of registration fee on green electric cars. By 2030, there will be a registration fee for electric cars equivalent to 80%. of the general registration fee in Denmark, which is after all the world's highest. Today, Denmark has as the only country in the world registration fee on electric cars, and SF has agreed that by 2030 it should be 80%. of the general registration fee, which is the world's highest. How does it promote that more Danes buy electric cars, that we should have the world's undoubtedly highest registration fee on electric cars, which is 80%. of the world's highest registration fee on petrol and diesel cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113608	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen and I know that we basically look differently at vehicle registration fees at all. In the SF, we believe that it is only right and proper for electric cars over the next 10 years to be phased into the registration fee system, and it is true that the registration fee on them is set at 80%. in 2030, but it's only 40%. for a long time. In addition, we also operate with a battery allowance and a bottom allowance, which also means that there will be a difference in how expensive an electric car you want to purchase, depending on how much it is taxed in relation to the registration fee. For us, it has been important especially to focus on the smaller electric cars and not so much on the larger, more luxurious electric cars. It is true that they are both running on electricity, but we do not see it in the car sector that it is an end in itself that cars should be low-taxed. We are fully aware that there is also a value element and a redistribution element, and that is because the green transition we believe in must be both socially balanced, but of course it must also be effective. And I really think that this agreement hits that balance very well. Then I'll just have to ask sir. Ole Birk Olesen: Expects Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, that an electric car will cost the same in production costs by 2030 as it does today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113725	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113728	Well, I understand that SF thinks that people who need a car to drive to work have to pay much more tax than people who don't need a car to get to work. I do not know why you have that view, and I do not know why when the car you drive does not pollute. But that is not the discussion. The question was: when the claim is that this agreement and this law promotes the green transition, it really is SF's claim that putting 80 per cent. Is the general registration fee on electric cars conducive to green conversion? That is the question in isolation. Does it encourage the green conversion to have a registration fee of 80%? On electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113804	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, 2030 is not tomorrow. This agreement will phase the electric cars and hybrid cars into the registration fee system, and I think that is sensible. If we were to follow the policy of the Liberal Alliance, it would mean a two-digit loss of billions in relation to revenue from car taxes, which is also money that we can spend elsewhere in the green transition. In addition, it is cheaper every day to drive at work in your electric car than to drive on diesel and gasoline. We can clearly see this from all the calculations that have been made, both in relation to the total cost of having an electric car versus a diesel and petrol car, but also from the very basic point of view, that we are completely eliminating electricity taxes and that there is more energy efficiency in electricity rather than diesel and petrol, which is higher and has less energy efficiency. So it's with this deal cheaper to drive to work in your electric car today, tomorrow and the day after.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113852	Thank you. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113857	First of all, I want to thank you for helping the SF to move in the greener direction compared to this agreement. We in the Left are delighted about that. We thought it was important to have an ambitious agreement in order to get as far with climate ambitions as possible, so thank you for that. After all, there are consequences and consequences of the different taxes that are imposed. One of them is this truck tax that gets rolled out on all state roads. It will of course be important in relation to who can afford to have goods transported, because it will be more expensive to have goods transported around. Is the SF willing to look at how we ensure that rural areas can still have a development? There is a risk that the carriers located out there locally are usually smaller in rural areas... have more difficulty investing in these more environmentally friendly trucks. So how does SF view the solution to creating a better balance than this bill gives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121113953	I think that these are some very relevant points of attention that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm raises. It can be said that we have agreed that the lorries will have a kilometre-based charge with this 2025 agreement. After all, the concrete model must be fully agreed. As far as we are concerned, it is important that, of course, as it is also clear, it focuses on what the truck is running on, that is to say diesel, or if it is a cleaner propellant, it is, for example. electricity? So there is a CO2 It is quite true that there will be different transport needs in a company where I live, in Salling, and in a company that may be inside a city. So we need to have a look at that, i.e. both the geographical distribution, but also what propellant the truck is running on. Finally, we also need to look at precisely whether it is only state roads, and also the risk that it can shift some heavier transport to some other, smaller roads, that is to say, how the precise cut should be, and we will agree on that completely, and there will also be a proposal for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114058	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114102	I have to say that one of our concerns is this truck tax because it is supposed to be on state roads and the parallel roads along state roads, because state roads go very far. For they reach to Salling; they reach to Hanstholm; they reach to Tønder. It is a very large network which will be subject to an extra tax, and it is the small transport companies that are located in places that cannot afford the large investments in green lorries. So I'm glad that SF will focus on that. But can we now give a promise to those companies out there that this is not going to cost them their lives? It should not cost them their lives to bring a truck tax because, as I understand the argument, it was actually the idea that it was also a way of charging more lorries than just the Danish ones and then also of improving energy efficiency. But that is going to have, what to say, the heavy end down in relation to rural areas, because it is the places where small businesses are unable to afford this conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114201	Basically, it is our clear expectation that a kilometre-based charge that differentiates according to which the propellant truck is running is sensible in terms of achieving some climate targets. Then it can be said that the heavy transport is under-taxed today, and it will be under-taxed with this. So from such a social point of view, I really think it is reasonable enough to increase taxation, but it should of course be with a view to the individual local business. However, I do not buy the premise that if you live and operate in Salling, you cannot get a truck that drives on a green propellant. So Thise Mejeri, who among other things. Has interfered in this debate, just bought a hydrogen truck. So I think we should also be careful to say that just because you live in Salling, it has not been understood that the climate crisis is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114237	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114240	Thank you. The redder parties that stand on the platform, the less satisfied the parties work with the agreement that has been made here and vote in favour of today. It is honest and sympathetic, and that means that we can discuss how it can be improved instead of just standing there and defending it. Now I hear the rapporteur say that there is a pit stop in 2025. Is this a real reopening of the agreement, a renegotiation, or can the agreement be raised to a more ambitious level at that time? And what will be most important in this regard in relation to SF's attitude to making it more ambitious and saving more CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114322	I can say that what is about the pit stop is that we have to look at the ambition to reach a million green cars. From a SF perspective, it is important to find the balance between that it is not just the car park that is growing and that it is a conversion of the car park. We have maintained that ambition in the debate on this agreement, but we will also stick to that, because it is not our intention that Denmark should go to the car balalaika and swim in cars. Trouble gets you, whether it's a Tesla or it's a Ford Mondeo running around. So it is, after all, a follow-up to the agreement and, of course, a follow-up to the ambition we have to achieve one million green cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114402	Here you go, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114405	If there is a real pit stop in 2025, where we can properly open this agreement and significantly improve it, then I hope that the SF will help us to get into the negotiating table in the alternative, even though we have very, very high green ambitions. What we also want to negotiate for is what the SF itself mentions: the number of cars. As far as I can see, this agreement actually allows 600,000 more cars to come on the roads by 2030, and it also costs a lot of CO2 Is SF also interested in supporting a debate where we are also in favour of a concrete reduction in the number of cars on the roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114440	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114444	SF's starting point is that we would actually have liked to see a smaller increase in the number of cars. It was then not achievable, because there are some tools that need to be put in place for, among other things. a toll on passenger cars in particular. We couldn't get through with that. That is why I think it is actually quite important that we have kept the growth of fossil cars at the same level by 2030 as it is today - i.e. that it does not grow, but remains at the same numerical level. It in itself seems to me to be a victory, and it would not have happened if we had not gone in and negotiated this agreement. Sir. Torsten Gejl knows that politics is also the art of the possible. But to put two points below: we are not done with transport with this agreement, and we can also do much more to get rid of the hardship, and we must fight for that, not at the pit stop in 2025, but already from the next transport debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114532	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114535	Thank you. Before the legislative procedure today, I asked a question in the Committee on Taxation, which was about what the consequence was of this agreement that was made, i.e. how it affected people's disposable income. And it actually turns out that the 50% who have the lowest incomes are losing on this. That is partly because the price of microcars and other things is rising. Those who win on it are 10%. The richest. The logic is that it's the big Teslas that gets cheaper, and that's the 10%. The wealthiest who can afford to buy them, whereas all those who can't afford to buy the big cars and who live in the countryside lose on it. Is it really SF's policy to make agreements that move around taxes in such a way that they 50%. the lowest-income population will have to pay more in tax, so that the 10% that have the most will have to have more? I thought the SF was doing the opposite. Here you have made a deal that makes the 10%. In fact, the wealthiest get a pretty big tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114634	That's quite right, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær emphasizes the need to regulate vehicle taxes both in relation to, for example: to reduce taxation on electric cars, which is, of course, a tax reduction for those who already have an electric car, and then turn the registration tax on the smallest diesel and petrol cars and also turn it up sharply. We still think that there is a reasonable social balance in this agreement over time, but of course you can take some snapshots and say that it is felt differently. If you keep the car you have today and it is a petrol car, then the tax increase you will get is in the form of an upward adjustment of the owner's tax. And if you have a diesel car, you will also see that the countervailing charge increases somewhat. It is true, of course, that if you are going to buy a brand-new car and really want a microcar that has low production costs, you will see that microcars have gotten a jump into the registration fee. But that is one of the tools we must use so that Denmark does not swim into cars. There are quite a lot of places where both the third and the fourth cars have started to be kept in the carport, and I think that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær can see where he lives and it is a violent growth in the car park. This is among other things. Therefore, we have turned up the registration fee for small cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114752	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114755	I don't know anyone in my company in Jutland who has three or four cars to get to work. I don't. I think it's pretty few people who have it. I forgot to say that the answer I have received actually shows how it can look when it is fully phased in, i.e. by 2030. So it's not a snapshot. It is not the case that you have just asked today what that will mean. The fact is that when the agreement is fully phased in, it is the case that it is 50%. The poorest of the population will pay for the 10%. The richest can buy a climate-friendly car. I just don't understand why SF has agreed. It is as frightful as it may be that people living in rural areas who may have a lower income or need two cars to get to work and to go shopping now have to pay for the 10%. The richest can get climate-friendly cars. I just think it is such a crooked priority, and I really hope that the SF itself thinks that there is something quite wrong in that the 10%. The richest must now have a hatchable tax discount on a Tesla of DKK 173,000 and that those who have a microcar and who need it in everyday life must pay more in registration fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114852	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114856	We have chosen to give priority to those who need a lower registration fee being the smaller electric cars, while the larger luxurious electric cars are increasing in registration fees with this agreement. What is more, there will be more electric cars on the market for the next 10 years and there will be a fall in production costs for electric cars. What is a little complicated in this case and perhaps also a little difficult to understand for outsiders is that we can do one thing with the taxes here in Denmark, but what matters is what the cost of the cars is. It is just the case today that it is significantly cheaper to produce diesel and petrol cars than it is to produce electric cars, but this is a relationship we expect to change, and it will also mean that there are much more Danes in all layers who will have access to the electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114942	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121114945	The rapporteur for the SF said that car taxation is also a redistribution policy for SF. This agreement redistributes, so that for those who have the lowest income, it becomes more expensive... they lose on the agreement... while those who have the highest income win on this agreement. Is that what SF means by that car tax is also a redistribution policy for SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121115008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121115011	What we're doing with this deal is saying that up to about $500,000. there is a tax exemption for electric cars. We have just made the cut to give the financial incentive we can from the Parliamentary Chamber that more Danes will have access to an electric car. It is true that, as things stand today, there are several Danes in the high income segments who have bought an electric car, but that is exactly what we are trying to push for, namely that this agreement should be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121115035	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121115038	No, what the socialists do most often is that they say one thing, but then they do something else, just as when they raise taxes on cigarettes, where it also hit those who have the least, hardest. Now we are making a car tax which also hits those who have the least, the hardest. And that is what the Socialists do because, after all, the green transition is not quite as important as satisfying the inexhaustible demands of the Treasury to get more money. Now that we say that with the most expensive cars, it is true that hybrid cars and thanks for the fact that especially Mercedes, Audi and Volvo hybrid cars are becoming considerably cheaper. For example: will be a BMW X5 DKK 250,000. cheaper, a BMW X3 will be 185,000 DKK. cheaper, and a Volvo V90 will be DKK 200,000. cheaper. So the fact that the expensive cars are becoming more expensive doesn't mean they're actually gonna be much cheaper with this scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121115125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121115128	It is the case that if you want to promote your point, you can take an example. And it is true that there are some large plugin hybrid cars that fall into registration fee with this deal this year and next year, but exactly plugin hybrid cars we phase in the full registration fee faster than we do with electric cars. But they own some plugin hybrid cars of the larger nature, which fall out and get some benefits from both battery deductions and other deductions and then also the phasing-in profile that is in the total registration fee. But to get back to the question by Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen: Is it also a redistribution policy for SF to have car taxation? Yes, that is it, and that is also why we are sticking to a value element in the registration fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121115210	Thank you. There are no more comments. We just need to clean up a little bit; we're gonna take it easy. Sir. Rune Lund doesn't have to put the long leg in front.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121115258	The Enhedslisten, together with the Government, the SF and the Radical Left, has concluded an agreement on road transport, which includes: to ensure more electric cars and prevent an increase in the number of fossil cars in the future. Although we managed to get more than doubled CO 2 2 We've got the expected CO 2 Road transport stands for a very large part of the Danish climate gas emissions, but the 2.1 million. t CO2 Even small steps are good here, but in this context it is not enough to solve the climate crisis we are facing. In the Enhedslisten's own climate plan, we have presented a model for the conversion of car transport, which will provide a CO2 t CO2 With the agreement there will be significantly more electric cars than would have been expected otherwise and they will be cheaper to own. This will help many people, including those who are deeply dependent on a car in their everyday lives and who also want to contribute to the climate goals. For the Enhedslisten, it is important that in the forthcoming agreement on infrastructure, we take significant steps, including for public transport, so that more people can really replace the car with trains and buses. I think it is incomprehensible, and we in the Group of the European People's Party believe that the government was not at a higher level of ambition and that it is a pity that it was not possible to achieve a higher level of ambition, but I am nevertheless relieved that we managed to prevent, among other things, from doing so. Left's dreams of spending welfare money, for example. hospitals and kindergartens to protect the largest fossil cars from taxes. This is an agreement that increases the number of electric cars on the Danish roads, and it is central to the green transition. However, as I said, we need to go further if we are to achieve our ambition of a 70-percent reduction by 2030. After all, there were two ways in the negotiations we had. One way was a bourgeois road, which might have given more electric cars on the roads, but which was to be financed by a major feature of the resort, which is to be used to finance our welfare society. The fact that the bourgeois will finance the green transition by cannibalizing welfare is not surprising. On the other hand, it is not a road that Enhedslisten will help to go. The other way was the agreement that we reached, which lacks ambition but which, after all, takes the first steps and, at the same time, does so without taking a big chunk of room for prosperity. However, we would have liked to have seen more electric cars, and we also had a proposal for funding for the negotiations. It was not money from welfare that the bourgeois people wanted, but funding that was red and green. We would have liked to have seen the high rate of registration tax rolled back to the level from before the bourgeois people began to lower it. We would also have liked to have seen a higher CO2 we would also have liked to target the relaxations for electric cars and plugin hybrid cars for small cars and ordinary family cars, so that luxury electric cars and plugin hybrid cars that cost 0.5 to 1 million. kr., should not be included in the low rate of registration fee and the very generous base deduction. It had all given a greater financial volume to make it even cheaper to acquire an electric car • not a large Tesla for DKK 800,000, but a regular electric car for the needs of ordinary people. For example, the money could be used. having made several cash grants which would make the relatively high price of an electric car, which is a barrier for many ordinary people, would be lower. Unfortunately, there was no support for these measures. One could also have looked at an airline tax, as proposed by the Eldrup Commission, and that would of course also have been a green source of funding. And if you had screwed up the airline fee smartly, you could have done it socially balanced too. Unfortunately, there was no support for this either. However, the agreement is a green improvement, even if we had hoped for more, and that is why we agreed to the agreement, which is why we are of course also voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121115747	Thank you. There are a number of comments. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121115752	First of all, I would like to say something briefly about this talk about big Tesla and so on. So, for ordinary families who have children approaching adulthood, it is actually necessary if you are to take long trips every once in a while, also to have some rear seats where you do not have to sit and crumble together otherwise it will be simply unpleasant. So these are ordinary families just with grown children who need bigger cars than the microcars, which are Mr. Rune Lund's ideal. Then I'll ask you something. We got an honest admission from Mr. Rune Lund, in view of the fact that there is another model which exempts green cars more from registration fees than that which Mr. Rune Lund and Enhedslisten do here, but it will cost on welfare. And that's why we got the answer from the red-green party Enhedslisten that if you have to choose between the red and the green, Enhedslisten chooses the red rather than the green. Actually, that's what Mr. Rune Lund said in the speech. And I think that's honest, because it's rare to hear the honesty out there, where Enhedslisten often says they're more green than everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121115858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121115902	Thank you. I think that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, when Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is about to ask me questions about the Gini coefficient and this agreement should remember what it is, sir. Ole Birk Olesen just asked. Because the thing is, with this deal, more money will be added to the car area. And I must be honest with you: we went for a revenue-neutral change. However, money will be injected temporarily up to 2025, and that is money which, among other things, is money. is used to make electric cars cheaper. And as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær will point out in a moment, that is exactly the case with electric cars and hybrid plugin cars and who has the economy to buy them, that it will typically be people who have a little more money. So I'm gonna have to disappoint sir. Ole Birk Olesen and say that in this case we have chosen to agree to a deal that will provide more electric cars. But there is also an inequality in it when you spend some funding on promoting electric cars, which a certain part of the population, which has suffered more than average, has better opportunities to acquire. So, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is simply not quite right in what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120014	But I really don't care about all that jealousy bullshit, about who gets something cheaper and so on. What we are talking about here is that we need a replacement of the car park for some greener cars. And there you go, sir. Rune Lund just admit that the model that you like for example. has rolled out in Norway, leading to more than 50 per cent. of the cars sold in Norway today are green cars that do not pollute at all while driving. And that's where Mr. Rune Lund and the rest of the red majority simply chose a model here that is less ambitious on behalf of the green transition than what one could have done, because one would rather have money in the treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120050	If you had followed the Enhedslisten, you would have made an agreement that was more ambitious and that would have given more not only green cars, but real green cars, namely electric cars. And to do so with a revenue-neutral change could easily have been done, but it had required that fossil cars had been made more expensive and that taxes had been set on fuels, but that electricity cars had been made cheaper and, of course, social compensation had been made in relation to the low-income groups by raising the green cheque. Then we could have solved the problems by getting what we would like to have in relation to the 70-percent objective. We could get the 4.5 million. t CO2 It wasn't a majority that wanted to do that way, unfortunately, but we did come a bit along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120131	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120134	Thank you. I would also like to ask a question. For SF's rapporteur had more or less difficulty recognising that this agreement costs those who have the least in society and gives to those who have the most, but then I remembered that Enhedslisten doesn't really recognise this Gini coefficient. Well, apparently you only do that when it goes one way, but when it goes the other way, you can't really use this tool. So I think I'm just going to spend my time thanking Enhedslisten for once again supporting an agreement. As in the case of top tax relief and corporate tax relief, as in the case of a BMW X5, I would also like to say that a BMW X5 will be DKK 250,000. cheaper, a BMW X3 will be 185,000 DKK. cheaper and a Volvo V90 will be DKK 200,000. cheaper, just from the heart say thanks to Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120218	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120219	I think I'm in a Facebook video from Mr. Kim. Lars Boje Mathiesen right now; I have a strong feeling about that. In relation to the Gini coefficient, I would say that precisely in relation to such an agreement here it makes sense to measure from it, because it is an agreement where it makes sense. We have had the discussion in the past in connection with the Finance Act, which contains a large number of elements which cannot be measured by the Gini coefficient, and therefore it does not make sense simply to assess an inequality aspect in the context of a financial agreement on the basis of the Gini coefficient. So that is another problem. So, the Gini coefficient is the most central measure that exists, the most used and used measure, to measure the inequality, but that cannot say everything, nor can it stand alone. Everything else needs to be equal in not being able to measure everything with it, including a political assessment, that is, in relation to what the effects on equality are about to strengthen welfare just to take that example. However, it is just to say that, in the current situation compared to 2020, we are actually raising the registration fee. And this means that fossil cars will be more expensive, but it also means that the most expensive electric cars will actually be more expensive compared to 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120326	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120328	Thank you. I am pleased that the Enhedslisten now recognises the Gini coefficient for individual elements. Then I assume that it was also recognised when we were talking about taxes on cigarettes, because it is also a simple, more measurable element where you can use that opportunity to control it. Then I think it's worth saying that in this agreement, those who have the lowest income lose while those who have the highest income win. That is what Enhedslisten is adding votes, and Enhedslisten must then go with their own voters. I just want to say thank you for the fact that there are some cars that get cheaper for people out there. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120405	So, for the fact that this should make the Danes poorer or how it has been going here, I would say: this is an agreement which up to 2025 is not a revenue-neutral change, but where more money is being added to the area. They are added in a way that makes it more attractive to buy an electric car or a plugin hybrid car. And who is it that initially has access to buy them? Well, it is people who have suffered more money than those who have the least in our society, and therefore there is a marginal, a very small, increase in inequality with this specific agreement, in isolation. When we assess whether developments are going in the right direction, we also look at what other measures are being taken, and there we can see that we see that among other things. has made a financial law agreement that strengthens welfare enormously and thus makes a significant contribution to increasing equality and combating inequality in our society. So we see things in a context. But it is true that in isolation there is no doubt that when you promote the electric cars here, there are some income groups, and it is those in the slightly higher end who benefit most from it. And if you use the Gini coefficient to measure it, it gives a marginal expression in the inequality in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120510	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120512	Thank you. I do not think that during my 51⁄2 years in the Folketing I have experienced a party that was so unhappy with an agreement that the party itself had made. I had the opportunity to debate with the rapporteur's party leader, Pernille Skipper, in the party leader's debate on the other day when I asked her: what actually happened to the Enhedslisten when they entered into this agreement? She smiled disarmingly and said she admitted that it was not the best deal Enhedslisten had been in, and that she could mention some things that could have been better. The rapporteur can do that, so there is a lot of self-consciousness and honesty in this. Of the many things the rapporteur says could have been better done in this agreement, what is the most important thing that could have been better done to further lift the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120557-2	After all, the agreement is a step in the right direction. 2.1 million t CO2 If I am to highlight something that we really emphasised in the negotiations and that has not filled much in the debate but which is extremely important, then the whole question is that the use of first generation biofuels should not increase with this agreement. And I might as well say now, as we also made it very clear in the negotiations, that it was a red line for us. And it is simply because it is the case that when you include the global climate effect on first generation biofuels, it is negative and, at best, neutral. This is because rainforests are being burned down in Brazil for them to be produced. It is also the case that, at the same time, food is taken out of the mouth of poor people in the Third World because land is being used to make biofuels instead of food, and then the combustion of biofuels is also more unclean, it simply creates more particles in our cities. So it was absolutely crucial for us that creative climate accounting could not make it look as if it gave climate reductions to use several first generation biofuels, and that is why we can actually see that the use of first generation biofuels does not increase with this agreement, which was in the draft. So I see it as a great political victory that there has been no creative climate bookkeeping with this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120726	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120728	Thank you for that description. That was really interesting. Now the rapporteur asks whether the alternative can recognise that 2.1 million. t is a step in the right direction, and we can do that. We agree with the green organisations that this is not enough. We do not think it is enough just to do something we really think much needs to be done, because we are trying to implement perhaps the most ambitious climate agreement in the world. What I would just like to hear from the rapporteur is the number of cars. As far as I can see, only 3 million have been set aside. kr. We often sit and cheek in our own car, where there was room to gather in much fewer cars. What have the priorities been with regard to not giving it a far, far greater boost, and what does the rapporteur think about the possibility of using cross-cars to a much greater extent and gathering in a slightly smaller car instead of sitting in our own car?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120829	We think it is important for people to share their cars more, and we think that we should look at many different tools to promote it, not just deductions. I sometimes think that deductions are drawn out as the only blissful means of ensuring that people choose more to share their cars. We stressed a number of points in the negotiations, and I have explained some of them, but I would just like to mention that at the end of the negotiations we also changed some things which made CO2 something that hit the fossil cars, but also the fossil cars at the top end, i.e. the most expensive ones, which are also some of those that pollute the most. So we put emphasis on various things, and I also think we came through with some things, but as I said, not at all enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120921	Thank you. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121120924	I can start by thanking you for the great interest. You'd almost think the speech was about us. Apparently, we are the main argument for agreeing to an agreement so that we can rejoice that we have an influence. It's good for the government that they can get you with the threat of us. However, I wish that false claims about other parties were not spread. Well, we haven't taken money from welfare and put into energy. It is simply a low point to start saying so. In our proposal, we have proposed that we should have room both for welfare and for the green transition. Well, to the very specific question: it is very funny that the rapporteur continues to say that Enhedslisten was concerned that this should be revenue-neutral for the state. Because in the Left we also care that it is revenue-neutral, but for the citizen, and that is the big difference. Do we focus on man, or do we focus on the state? And it may be that Enhedslisten is busy being green, but they do have it for other people's money. It is, of course, because you just want to ask even more about taxes that you want to make it more green. You don't want to prioritize it. You're like a watermelon: you're green on the outside and red on the inside. Because there is no willingness to give priority to the green transition. It's just a matter of pulling other people's money. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121041	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121042	I do not know what the Left is: are you such a kind of genetically modified watermelon that imagines being green on the outside, but which is really blue inside? Well, the room for manoeuvre is that there's a sum of money that you can use for something. My experience of the Left, and that is also what has been reported out in the press, is that you were prepared to spend a two-digit billion sum of money from the room for manoeuvre on this agreement. It is money which should otherwise go to nurses in hospitals, day care teachers, more teachers in primary schools and more sosu assistants in nursing homes, so it is absolutely absurd to hear that the Left in this Chamber is trying to say that what is being proposed would not take money from welfare. Well, it would. Because if you use them to make all cars cheaper, that money is not there to strengthen welfare. So I have to say that I am rather surprised that we need to have a discussion about the size of the room for manoeuvre at all. I hear the Left say that not a single person could get a car that became more expensive to drive in, and we just disagree with that. Fossil cars must be more expensive and electric cars must be cheaper. We need to make sure that people can make the green choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121155	Thank you, and we must keep to our speaking time. Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121158	The trick in that room is that there is no note on where it is going, and that is why we are all talking about where we want them to go. But then you cannot say that it is money that we take from welfare, because it is money that is not already targeted anything. Then it may well be that Enhedslisten wants to spend all the money on welfare, but Enhedslisten hasn't agreed with red block. It's not that there's an agreement that all this money should go to schools and healthcare professionals. There isn't. This is about Enhedslisten not giving priority to the green transition. The Enhedslisten will only prioritize higher taxes to ensure the green transition. It is the only way to finance things. It is by demanding even more in and making the whole of Denmark poorer time and time again. And then you can stand there and say so many things. It's about the state before man.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121241	I would like to make it clear that speaking time must be respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121245	The left will take 10 billion. kr. that can be used on nurses and sosu assistants and primary school teachers and educators, and use them to make cars cheaper. The Enhedslisten wants a revenue-neutral change which ensures that we have our transport greened and have reductions of 4.5 million. t CO 2 This is the difference between Enhedslisten and Left. The Left will pursue an economic policy in the green area, which will enable welfare to be cannibalised. The Enhedslisten conducts a green policy where the road to the green transition is socially fair. That is obvious, including in today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121322	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. No, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær has volunteered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121343	My microphone actually turned on when Rasmus Jarlov was mentioned, so it's probably some kind of technical problem. Sir. After all, Rune Lund has a little foreseen what I would like to ask. The Enhedslisten has made it clear many times that you do not want to be involved in agreements that increase inequality. It has been said that if there are tax cuts, they should not benefit the richest. Should there be tax increases, it should not be paid by those who had the least. Here we have an agreement which means that the 50% who have the lowest income will pay more, and the 10% who have the highest income will then be relieved. So, I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Rune Lund elaborates on how you feel about implementing your own plan. Well, here you do the exact opposite of what you have actually said both before and after an election... can Enhedslisten confirm it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121430	I would like to start by saying that we are generally satisfied that, since the June 2019 elections, we have made a number of agreements and that a policy has been pursued that overall increases equality and combats inequality in our societies with the initiatives that have been taken. I would also like to say that we in the Enhedslisten do not have a position that we will never be able to enter into an agreement where the inequality measured by the Gini coefficient is increasing, because then we would not have been able to be in the agreement to increase cigarette taxes, which will of course be a problem for some who keep smoking and who may be a little older in the years. But it has been crucial for us to combat inequalities in health and ensure that fewer young people start smoking. And the young people who are severely affected by smoking are typically young people in vocational schools, but they are also young people who generally find it difficult in life. In other words, the short-term measure of the Gini coefficient could lead to an increase in health equality in the longer term and therefore also in economic equality. So things are sometimes a little more complex. But it is quite true that there is a marginal increase in inequality as measured by the Gini coefficient, because support is given primarily to electric cars, which will of course be bought by people who have suffered higher incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121551	Thank you. Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121553	What I don't understand is why Enhedslisten wants to help make this cut. Can the Enhedslisten not confirm in relation to those who typically buy a microcar, a Citroën C1 e.g. or a VW Up that those cars are going to rise quite sharply with this deal, so that those who are at the top income level, i.e. the 10%. richest, so can get a cheaper electric car, i.e. a Tesla, the really expensive cars? Do you think it is fair that people who live in the countryside and need a car to get to work, or a pensioner who can't afford more than a microcar, now have to pay significantly more for people who have a lot of money to have a cheap electric car?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121638	In other words, if you look at which cars are becoming more expensive, it is to a large extent the expensive electric cars that are becoming more expensive compared to what is happening today. We also see generally that fossil cars are becoming more expensive. Having said that, I would also be quite honest about the fact that if it had been up to us, there would have been a large round zero and not the marginal increase, as there is in the inequality measured by the Gini coefficient with this deal. After the Left stopped making itself playable in the negotiations, I think we got things drawn in a slightly more sensible direction to the very end. But there is no doubt that if we were to have been completely in the goal, there should have been at least a large round zero in the inequality measured by the Gini coefficient. And this could have been done by making social compensation, for example. to some of the low-income groups that everything else just gets hit here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121728	Thank you. Then there are no more brief remarks, and that is where Mr. Rune Lund finished. The next one is sir. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121755	Both the bourgeois and the red parties want to switch the Danish car park, so we get more green cars, but they will do so in two very different ways. It's the question of whip or carrot. We prefer positive incentives instead of punishing citizens. We want to lower the charges on electric cars so that more people will buy them. The red parties will raise taxes on petrol cars, so more will choose them from. Ordinary Danes can't do without a car. If you live at Nørrebro and work in the inner city of Copenhagen, you can't, if you live in just Ballerup or Virum and work outside Hillerød or somewhere else where it's hard to get to by train and bus. The car is a necessity for a great many people, and we cannot impose even more taxes on cars, so we punish ordinary people who cannot make everyday life hang together without a car. If we are to have a more green car park, what we need to do is to make electric cars cheaper by lowering taxes on them. It is clear that our solution to lowering taxes costs more to the Treasury than the Social Democrats and the Left's solution to raise taxes on petrol and diesel cars and lorries. It is clear that it is difficult to reduce taxes when, at the same time, you want to spend money on cutting down the mink business, on Arnepension and on, among other things, Arnepension. more refugees to Denmark. You can't afford it all. But there the Danes have their choice between red and blue blocks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121121959	That's it? Yeah, there wasn't any more. Rasmus Jarlov It's saved away). No one feels provoked either. So thank you for that. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121122020	Oh, I love cars. I have to tell you. It's like a good steak, like a beautiful picture or a good song. The smell! Cars are pieces of art and works of art, and we must protect them. That's why this speech is going to be a little two-part. The tax changes that are being made are in my optics and in the optics of New Citizens a wrong way of doing so. If the Danish Parliament wants more electric cars on the roads, that is a valid wish, but that you think you want to decide which cars people should drive in, we in New Citizens do not think you should. But if the Danish Parliament wants it anyway and you want more electric cars, then of course you just have to remove the registration fee on the electric cars. You can lower the electricity tax to the minimum that it has to be on and thus get more electric cars out on the markets. But we must not at the same time make it more expensive for people who do not choose to do what politicians want, and that is where the cut lies. Whether you want a bourgeois solution or whether you want the socialist solution where you want to try to turn people into a certain direction via taxes. We basically believe that the last solution is wrong and that is why we will not be supporting this agreement on those points. There is also a tax increase for business, and this is not the right time. This is never the right time to put increased taxes on business, but it is not at all now. Because when you have to plan where your business should lie, you look into the future for what costs you will get for the company. Is it supposed to be in Denmark? Is it going to be in Germany? Is it supposed to be somewhere else? There are taxes on business which we do not like either. So to the second part: fortunately, there is also a very, very positive element in this agreement, and that is about veteran cars. Not only on my own behalf, but I know it's also on behalf of a lot of veteran car owners and those who love their cars and snooze and puss them... they think they're a family member... I also think it's a great thank you to the Danish Parliament and especially to our tax minister. Because you didn't have to, and the tax minister didn't have to bring this. So I actually feel like I'm standing here on the platform and getting a little touched, because I'd like to say thank you very much. The minister didn't have to listen to me. You didn't have to listen to the veteran bees and take this wish with you. We've had some good conversations, and thank you so much. Overall, we hope that Denmark is moving in a direction where tax and tax levels are becoming lower for the people out there and making it more expensive for people to own a car is not the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121122321	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121122327	I agree that it is a good thing to remove the originality requirement for vintage cars, and I would like to welcome Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen said that we were actually more parties involved in the negotiations, so it was not just Mr. Boje Mathiesen. Lars Boje Mathisen himself. The Danish People's Party actually had it with it, and we kind of agree with it, but something that I think is a little bad in it is that the tax increases, that is, that you get to pay much more for the car. Happy, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen, too? Because I understand that you were out on Facebook pretty soon to say that it was Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, who had made that change on veteran cars, must then mean that the increase in taxation is also something, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathisen has fought for. I just have to say that in the Danish People's Party we do not think it is a good idea that veteran cars should at the same time increase in tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121122404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121122405	Thanks for following me on Facebook, I'm glad. I can offer a call for more people to do that. We have just rounded out the 100 000 that are now coming, and I am glad that the rapporteur is doing the same. But you have to read it carefully, because what I thanked you for was that you listened to me taking the issue to the table and that you have dealt with the issue. It is clear that if New Citizens had done so, that part would not have been part of it. We are not in the agreement on cars, we were not even invited to the negotiations, and therefore we have no influence on it either. But that is why we can be pleased that the originality requirement has been removed. One can then say that one could have wished and hoped that Dansk Folkeparti had kicked a little more to the Left when they had the power, where one was making an agreement, but where one was swindling and then didn't get this agreement made before there was an election. That is why the agreement ends in such a way that there are also some tax increases. This could have been avoided if DF had put a little more pressure on that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121122453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121122455	That's kind of funny, for Mr. Simpson. Lars Boje Mathiesen reveals himself when he says that you have not been invited to the negotiations at all, but that it is still Mr. Boje Mathiesen. Lars Boje Mathiesen, who got it through the negotiations. Both cannot really be the case. We have fought for veteran cars for many years and have made many improvements with the Left, the Conservative and the Liberal Alliance before the elections. We think it is a good thing that the removal of the originality requirement has come through, but the increase in the tax is therefore quite crazy. That's a little funny conclusion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121122528	I do not know whether the rapporteur was trying to make some sort of word game, but I have been sitting in the first debates with the rapporteur, where the rapporteur was actually sitting next to me and where I mentioned it, and the rapporteur knows that I had a meeting with the tax minister. When the crucial negotiations on what to look like started, New Citizens were not invited. Well, then you can try the word game. However, the fact is that if this had been introduced under the previous government, where DF sat with the parliamentary option to press the button and say that this would have been done, then there would probably not have been tax increases. But you didn't react, you didn't do anything. Then we'll be somebody else picking up the glove, and then we'll get it through. Could it have been better and would I have liked it to have been without tax increases? Yes, but I would like to pay tribute to the fact that the originality requirement, which is something that really hits these veteran car owners really, really hard, has been removed. I'm very, very happy about that. It's a long piece to come, and it's a bit longer than you came when DF tried to do it. Then we just have to go all the way, and perhaps we can do that in cooperation if power changes and then we can have that tax reduced. We'd like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121122627	Thank you. There is no one else who wants to speak, so we will move on once we have just been spritted off. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121122654	What we are witnessing at the moment in the car sector is a revolution of the technology behind driving in a family car. It will become increasingly attractive in the world to buy pollution-free electric cars instead of petrol and diesel cars. This is a happy situation for the environment and for the people who live there where there are many cars. And it is driven by the fact that electric cars with batteries are really good cars for people with normal driving needs. And here I am not talking about people who are going out with horse trailers every weekend or who are going camping to southern Europe with a caravan behind the car, or about sellers who are going to drive 300, 400, 500 km a day. There it isn't necessarily the right car. It may be that it should be a plugin hybrid car instead. But for people with normal driving needs, the electric car is a really good car. It happens that they become cheaper and cheaper, and so you come to the situation, at least in the rest of the world, that the electric car is probably more expensive, although it is cheaper and cheaper in purchasing, but it is cheaper in operation than a petrol and diesel car. Therefore, most of the world will find that when we enter the mid 2020s, the total calculation to buy an electric car rather than buy a petrol and diesel car is positive in economic terms, if you count acquisition costs and operating costs. Then we come to Denmark. Here we have a very, very high registration fee on the purchase of cars, and we are now going to have that on electric cars, because this has been agreed by a majority in the Folketing, namely that by 2030 registration fee will be paid at 80%. of the normal registration fee for the purchase of an electric car. This means that the advantage that the electric car has and where a balance can be struck between the economy of an electric car and the economy of a petrol and diesel vehicle, namely on the operation, is offset by the fact that 80% of the car is loaded. of the registration fee on the acquisition. I have asked the tax minister about this, but as always the tax minister takes a little time to answer questions that it is difficult to answer without putting himself in a bad light. I have asked: when we do this here in Denmark, where we introduce 80%. In the case of the registration tax on electric cars up to 2030, will we ever come to the time in Denmark when it is economically as advantageous to buy an electric car as it is to buy a petrol or diesel car? That point is reached in the rest of the world, where there is no registration tax on any car at all. But will we ever, when we introduce 80%? of the registration tax on the purchase of the electric car, come to the time in Denmark when it will be an economic advantage to buy an electric car, or where it just goes straight to buying a petrol or diesel car? I am eagerly waiting for the answer and, of course, it will last for the maximum four weeks that the tax minister has to answer such questions, because that is how it is when the answer is not beneficial to the tax minister's policy. Nor is it advantageous for red wing policy, which introduces these 80%. It is clear that this is not really about the green transition. It is about the fact that there is a majority in the Folketing that cannot get enough money to spend. There must be more money for Arnepension, for early retirement is not good enough for Arne; he must have something better than early retirement. There needs to be more money to lift the cash benefits ceiling. There must be minimum standards for educators. There must be all sorts of measures that cost money for the Treasury. And because you have this eternal focus on increasing public spending, you cannot pursue a green policy in relation to the conversion of passenger car transport in Denmark. It is simply necessary to do this because of the insatiable need for money in the Treasury, which the red bloc has. So it is necessary to introduce 80%. of the general registration fee for electric cars. Therefore, the green conversion of passenger cars in Denmark will be delayed compared to other countries. The Norwegian model could have been chosen, where, due to no registration fee on electric cars and other advantageous schemes, it has already been reached that more than 50 per cent. of the cars bought by consumers in Norway are electric cars, which thus do not pollute either the environment or the urban environments where they drive. But in the choice between being red or green, red blocks choose to be red. And again it turns out that if you want real reforms in Denmark, you have to look to the blue block and, of course, primarily to the Liberal Alliance. We're voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121123201	Thank you. No one has any comments, so we're moving on to Mr. Knox's. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121123219	Thank you, President. In the alternative, we will not be voting in favour of the Green Conversion of Road Transport. It is not because we do not think it is a small step on the road when it comes to reducing CO2 That is because we need big steps if we are to achieve a 70% target. reducing CO2 In the alternative, we will not green stamp agreements that are not ambitious enough when it comes to achieving our common reduction targets. It's not enough to do something when you don't do enough. However, it must of course be recognised that there are good points in the agreement. In the alternative, we say 'yes' to the continued reduction in registration fees for electric cars, to the continued reduction in electricity tax for process currents, we say 'yes' to kilometre-based taxes for trucks, we say 'yes' to the pilot scheme for road pricing and, of course, also to the large amount of cycling. We also note that for example. The Danish Elbil Alliance and the association of electric car drivers are happy for the agreement. The Danish Elbil Alliance writes that the agreement on new vehicle taxes gives a further boost to an already hot electric car market and at the same time creates a calm about car taxes in the coming years. That is why the electric car industry is very pleased with today's agreement and looks forward to the great task of setting up charging stations for the many new cars. However, the agreement will receive a more mixed reception from the actual green organisations. The Green Conversion Council states that it is basically rather disappointing that the overall level of ambition to reduce the climate load from transport is so low. This says Jeppe Juul, senior advisor in climate and transport in the Green Conversion Council. He stresses that this is good progress, but that overall it has not gone far enough. CONCITO says that we in Denmark have already made some progress in climate action, but much more is needed to achieve the 70% target. reduction in 2030 and a climate-neutral society by 2050. Even with several new climate agreements and a green finance bill, we are still missing at least 12 million. tonnes before the 2030 target is sighted. The new road transport agreement contributes about 2 million. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter. Here we are talking about some of the things that concern us in the alternative. We find it disappointing that the overall level of ambition to reduce the climate load on transport is so low. Road transport accounts for a large part of Danish emissions, but in the bill we find only 2.1 million. t CO 2 The proposal amends car taxation so that, according to the calculations, we will have 700,000 electric cars and plugin hybrid vehicles by 2030. In addition, there will be 75,000 so-called green vans. But even without this proposal, according to the Elcar Commission's forecasts, 400,000 green cars would be on the roads by 2030. In fact, less than half of the 775,000 green cars are attributable to the government and to the proposals of the parties to the agreement. In addition, the focus is quite wrong. The focus has been on how many electric cars we will have by 2030, and more incomprehensiblely also focused on how many plugin hybrid cars there will be, but the real challenge seen in our optics compared to the climate is how many fossil cars are left by 2030. The new agreement will send thousands of plugin hybrid cars loose in Denmark. In the agreement, the plugin cars are called green and low-emission cars. Car manufacturers sell the plugin hybrid cars as vehicles that do not emit very much CO2 But a European analysis from September of 20,000 plugin hybrid cars shows that even the least climate-laden plugin cars emit an average of 265 per cent. more CO2 According to the analysis, a hybrid car over its lifetime emits approx. 28 t CO 2 2 For comparison, an electric car emits only approx. 3.8 t CO 2 The report also reveals that hybrid cars often have the engine turned on even when running on electricity. Therefore, they should be considered neither zero-emission cars nor low-emission cars. Therefore, we should not give tax rebates to hybrid cars, but rather equate them with diesel and petrol cars. There are no hydrocarbon cars, including plugin hybrid cars, which are directly climate-friendly in the sense we are looking for. A plugin hybrid car is closer to being a fossil car than an electric car in our optics. All in all, the agreement is a good, small positive step in the right direction. We just think in the alternative that when we try to reach the world's probably most ambitious climate legislation, we need big, ambitious steps. That is why we are voting no, but we very much hope to be included in future negotiations which will ensure that we step up the level of ambition in achieving our reduction targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121123728	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121123730	Thank you. When I want to speak, it is because the rapporteur quite rightly touched on hybrid cars, and that is one of the things I think there is in this agreement. I am not so much in favour of the agreement itself, but precisely here there is something. 'Cause with regard to these plugin hybrid cars, people don't always get this charger in, and you might drive a lot of miles, but when you're out of that power, you're gonna be running these max. 13-14-15 km in these cars, and then they emit the more CO2 But in this deal, the big hybrid cars, i.e. a BMW X5 and a Volvo, actually become as cheap as a Peugeot. If you take an XC40, it will now be as cheap as a Peugeot 3008, and you have a Volvo V90, which will also be cheaper, and Mercedes and Audi will also fall in price. What I would like to ask is: will the alternative vote in favour if there is a motion for a resolution to remove the registration fee for electric cars completely?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121123829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121123830	That is something we will certainly consider. We are a little sad that this whole debate has gone into two blocks which, like, cannot take any of the best from each other. But, of course, we should hear a little bit about how it should be financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121123847	Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121123849	Yes, I understand that, but we do have a great deal of room for manoeuvre, and if it is used for a green transition, I suppose it is also in the spirit of the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121123859	In any case, we do not feel that money should not be used for green conversion under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121123907	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121123909	I also need to take the hybrid cars a little in defence, because it is a very good technology if it is used correctly, and in fact it means that hybrid cars on shorter trips or on normal trips to and from work can drive on clean electricity. You can also use hybrid cars in such a way that when you get within the city limit, where there are many people, you drive on clean electricity, so that you don't emit no x So hybrid car technology is really good. Instead of talking bad about hybrid cars, like Mr. Torsten Gejl does, perhaps one should look a little at that one should like to encourage people who buy a hybrid car to actually make sure that it is charged at night when they are at home and make sure to drive on clean electricity in the cities. In my opinion, this can be done with various tools that I think should be used, rather than simply avoiding hybrid cars and saying that this is no progress at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121124007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121124008	We want to help people to use their hybrid cars far, far better, and I think that would be a really, very good idea. Right now, as they are being used, they are hardly better than fossil cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121124019	Thank you. It's the tax minister's turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121124048	Thank you. Thank you very much for your comments and, above all, thank you to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen for his thanks for the fact that we also resolved something left behind by the previous government, namely the issue of veteran cars. I understand that in the environment I do not now have a veteran car, but I am following the environment and I am interested in it. I am very glad that it has been resolved, and I am actually also. It is an important hobby for quite a lot of people, and you spend hours on it, which is why I think it is good that it also came along. But this is, after all, a corner of this agreement, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen himself also said. I am glad that the agreement has been welcomed outside this floor. I think it is very good that the FDM, the Danish car importers and others are now commending the fact that an agreement has been reached which calms down vehicle taxes and which helps to secure and promote the green transition of the transport sector. This is an agreement which is an important step towards achieving the 70-percent target, that is, the objective of reducing CO2 by 2030 compared to 1990. It is an agreement which was made last year and which a large part of the Danish Parliament is behind, and here there is the opportunity, as well as making words into action, and I am glad that there has been broad support for it in the Danish Parliament. So thank you to the parties behind the SF, Enhedslisten and the Radicals. It's been an amazing collaboration. It has been a long time, but it is important and it is important that we could find each other in a good agreement, which is widely praised. It has also been overlooked in the debate that what this agreement is actually about is a lighter phasing-in of the green car park's tax development than that of the previous Blue Government. That's the main point. Last year they paid 20%. in registration fee, and this year, after the previous government tax agreement from 2017, 65 per cent had to be paid. It seemed to the government and our parliamentary basis to be too harsh a cure for the green conversion of the car park, which is why we have made a more relaxed phasing-in, plus that we have taken 2.5 billion in goose eyes. kr. from the so-called green space and into an even more relaxed transformation of the green transport sector. I think that's very nice. The fact that you so much want more is quite fine, but you cannot stand up here and say that you want more without indicating where the money will come from. In other words, if we want to reach the million by 2030 we have an ambition that we want to achieve it, and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and everyone else who has said it are absolutely right that technology is developing very quickly, and that is good for everyone, and we are going to take stock of that; in 2025 we will return to it and look at it then you owe an answer to where you will find the 6-7 billion. DKK, it costs extra in 2030. You can't just stand here on Parliament's platform and say: we have only made a budget law for 2021, so we just have to figure out where that money is to come from. You have to explain to the Danes where that money will come from. Well, that's true, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says that you couldn't have had charges on electric cars, and then it would go like Norway, and many more people would probably have an electric car, yes. But where is the financing of this tax loss to be found? It is not, of course, because the conversion of the green transport sector that is already taking place today is free of charge. Towards 2030, this development of technology, green conversion, more electric cars and green cars on the roads costs the Treasury 10 billion. kr., without us doing anything. What we're doing here, we're financing part of it. We're gonna shoot 2.5 billion. kr. in from the green space to force the development further. So you have to explain to the Danes where that money will come from. Even rolling out one extra green car on the road is not free. It costs money every time a green car rolls out on the road. That is, of course, the loss of 10 billion. kr. So my point is just that you had the chance here to be green, you had the chance to make words into action and to move from having ambitions to reducing CO2 by 2030 to actually doing something about the sector that really matters in that area, namely the transport sector. You can certainly do much more than that, but it costs either in the treasury or in the connection between the country and the city and the opportunities for ordinary families to make everyday life work together. It costs on all parameters. That is why I am pleased that we have found an agreement which is widely praised outside this Parliament and which helps to ensure that 1) there is money for the welfare of the future, 2) that we have an ambitious green transition of the transport sector, 3) that the everyday life of ordinary families can still hang together. That's what's at the heart of this. That is why it is a significant agreement that has been made: which secures 775,000 zero and low-emission cars by 2030, and which has an ambition of 1 million green cars by 2030, and where we commit each other to our return in 2025 and which Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is absolutely right in looking at how the market has evolved, how the technology has evolved, and whether there are things we need to change to force the development. That's what we're going to look at there. At the same time, it is worth noting that the number of conventional cars by 2030 is maintained in relation to the projections for this year. Then it is an agreement that will help to make an important green contribution to the transformation of the Danish society • 1 million. I would like to dwell a little on this, because it is a big deal, a very big deal that has been made here, and that's these numbers, 1 million. t CO2 in 2025 and 2,1 million a certificate of CO2 in 2030. If you do not bite to fuck when you have the chance to do something about the green, it is very, very difficult to say at the same time that you want to achieve the climate goals you have signed. Not only do you owe answers to where the money for the very big ambitions should come from, but you also owe answers to how you intend to achieve the climate objective that you yourself have signed up to. In other words, if you do not want something in the transport sector and do not want anything in the agricultural sector, and if you do not want something in a whole lot of other areas, then what? You have to answer that. So this agreement is based on the parameters that are typically and traditionally used when we make agreements here, of course, balanced, and it is ensured that it both makes a significant green contribution, that it helps to ensure that ordinary families' everyday lives can still hang together, so that you can still afford to have your car and can also afford to buy a green if you want to, because it is cheaper, and that you also have opportunities to transport the kids to and from football, sport, cultural activities, and whatever else you have to look after. I'm saying this because I think it's very, very important to understand that this Parliament has committed itself to an exceptionally ambitious transformation of the Danish society. We agree on this in a broad agreement. As I have said, what is crucial for the government is, as it may be heard, that the green transformation of Danish society takes place in a way that both ordinary families and companies can keep up with. We must not have yellow vests in the Danish streets; we must ensure that everyone is there. We should not have a green transition which, overall, contributes to more inequality in Danish society; we are not all getting that. And that is why this agreement is balanced, and that is why, as I said, it is a very good agreement. The legislative proposal is then part of the overall, if you like, conversion of the transport sector, where, as has already been suggested, we make it more attractive to buy zero and low-emission cars. We are doing this by cancelling the planned increases in the registration fee for zero and low-emission cars, as well as extending the special scheme with low electricity charge on electricity for zero and low-emission cars up to 2030. It will actually make it easier to be green in everyday life. At the same time, we simplify the tax system. And as far as conventional cars are concerned, there is an incentive to buy cars that now emit as little CO2 as possible at all that is at the heart of this: from having a tax system on cars with all sorts of exciting and mysterious allowances and deductions etc., then the engine will become CO2 That is what is important, and that is what can be said, the structural importance of this agreement. So no one wonders that, as a minister, of course, I think it is a good deal we have made; I hope not. I am sorry that we did not manage to reach a broad agreement, because this is really an important structural agreement, in which we have managed to secure the balances that are going into such an agreement as this, where life is going to be alive in all parts of the country; where ordinary families have to have everyday life to hang together when the small ones go to school or to football, it must be possible, and it must also be possible to have both one and two cars. We want to make it easier and cheaper to choose green. And then there must be money to develop the welfare of the future. That is what is at the bottom of this agreement, and we are pleased that there has been support for it here in the Folketing and also outside the Chamber. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125203	Thank you. It's first, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125207	According to the Treasury, it costs about 8 billion. kr. to abolish the registration tax on all Danish cars • just over 8 billion. kr. That's less than 1%. of total public expenditure. I mean, instead of spending $100, you just have to spend $99.2. Or something like that. That is very little in the large budgets. Now we are talking about not having a registration fee on the electric cars, that is to say a less loss for the Treasury than the 8 billion. kr. I understand that this would lead to the electric cars not using petrol and diesel, which is why there will be no tax on petrol and diesel in the Treasury, and that will increase the figure. However, we want the consumption of petrol and diesel to be reduced. And there is also a social benefit to it: when people do not get particles into the lungs, as they do today, plus that there are other expensive climate measures that we do not have to take because we get the reduction from the cars. So summa summarum: The Treasury Minister is just keen to get money in the Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125320	Apart from the latter, I am very much in agreement with Mr Tugendhat. Ole Birk Olesen. And I know he's a big fan of electric cars. At least he used to be, and that's fine. However, as in so many other contexts and now with the next item on the agenda and previous items last week, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen just to tell you where the money's coming from. That is the main question every time, and it is easy to say that it is just 0.2 per cent. Somewhere. That's easy to say. Yes, but the money must be found; it is committed. So, sir. Ole Birk Olesen must point out where they should come from. Where are the savings to come from, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen will give in relaxation in the car area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125406	Yes, we already have an electric car at our home, and our interest is that the new electric cars should be as expensive as possible, because then our used car will increase in value. So I'm working against my private interests here. How is the money to be found? Well, it's pretty simple. If the Minister for Taxation asks the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior can tell us that they have made a study in the Ministry which shows that the municipalities are spending 8 billion. kr. more administrative than they had to do if otherwise the municipalities that are expensive in administration learned from the cheap municipalities which manage better. Only by avoiding over-administration in the municipalities can the money be found to abolish the registration fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125449	It is such a source of funding, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen pulls out every time there's this discussion. But it cannot be used all the time, so at some point you have to show how to pay the bill you leave here. I agree with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen in that it is an area that is incredibly exciting. I know, sir. Ole Birk Olesen also says, right? In other words, it is very, very exciting, and a great deal is going to happen, and I believe that in the years to come we will see a transformation of our car park, which of course is also a challenge in the area of taxation. We have taken a step towards making the tax area, i.e. car taxation, if you like, more geared to that development by adding a CO2 which makes the tax system itself more focused on the future green transition. Well, then, sir. Ole Birk Olesen has the point of view and it is fine that no charges should be paid in that area at all. And that's where we just disagree. I think this is the right way to do it, and of course there is a bill to be paid if you choose to do it, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen will. It cannot come as a surprise to anyone that we disagree on how it should be paid. That's fair enough. It's politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125611	Thank you. Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125617	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for having had some good negotiations as long as it went on, and I am glad that the government ended up in a more ambitious place than it started, namely that instead of the 500,000 green cars that the government wanted to reach by 2030, it has now reached 715,000 green cars. So I'm glad. This helps us to achieve the 70-percent objective. But what I want to ask is something a little different. I'm surprised you can't calculate the DMV registration fee. When this agreement was drawn up, has it not been examined whether these registration fees could actually be calculated? What we are standing in here is that the sale of green cars and vans stops because the correct tax cannot be calculated and therefore does not know how much it costs. So why didn't you check it out before you made a deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125712	Of course, you've checked that out. There are systems to be organized, and it happens here just before the summer break. I think that if Mrs Louise Schack Elholm looks back a little on the agreement that was made in 2017, then there was also a corresponding transitional period, so hopefully it will not come as a surprise to a government-supporting party that, in this area in particular, there is a need for us to have time to set up the systems for that. The registration fees can be found on the Danish Treasury's website. There are plenty of dealers who have already started to prepare for this, and that was one of the reasons why we had to add 1.5 billion to the car industry in the previous legislative proposal. kr. cash flow and improvements. It was so that they could adjust to what they were aiming for, namely that they should sell more green cars. So I think there are some people other than Mrs Louise Schack Elholm who actually understand what has happened to the registration fee. At any rate, it has been prepared and wanted to see an increase in liquidity so that the sale of green cars could be speeded up already. So some have at least understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125817	Thank you. Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125819	That is obviously not enough, because the FDM actually advises its members not to buy green cars because it does not know how much the bill for the tax administration will be. So it's obviously not equally transparent for everyone. And if the change made to L 139, is a response to L 129, why has it not been made as an amendment to L 129? Why should it be dealt with in a completely different legislative proposal? Then the context of the legal procedure disappears. That's a strange way to do it. And if you have been aware that you couldn't calculate it here until 1 July, why hasn't a transitional period been made, perhaps as the auto industry writes to the government, continued with the taxes that were last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125857	That's right. You ask the questions you want. We have therefore made it possible for the car industry to have a liquidity increase of 1.5 billion. kr. I had hoped that I could have a discussion with the Left about why the Left was not included in this agreement and how it was intended to finance the extra 6-7 billion. kr., as it would cost if one had to meet the Left's goal. But it is fine that we can thank our friends across the aisle for having reached an ambitious agreement. I am very sorry that the Left is not in that agreement, even at a time when what is in it, when you look at the keys that are turned on here, does not shy away from what you yourself have done in the past. That is a pity, and I hope that at some point we will take greater responsibility for the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125952	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121125955	I understand why the Minister thanks the friends over here on this page... it's not the alternative, but the support parties... for joining this deal. However, I also think that the Minister should note that the support parties are reluctant and actually criticising the agreement very strongly. So those who support it criticise it and those who are not in it also criticise it. Well, that's not where a good deal lies. It would have been nice if it had become a very broad agreement. There are very good ideas on both sides of the Chamber here, and there is the exceptional thing about both sides of the hall having their hands on the hot plate. Because we all need to work to achieve that reduction target. In those circumstances, I wish the Minister had negotiated a little longer and also called all the parties and then tried to reach a compromise which actually took care of a broad bouquet of the ideas that are here. Does it not impress the Minister at all that some of the parties supporting this agreement are in fact so reluctant to do so and that the green organisations are not at all satisfied with it? Is it really so little needed for the Minister to be so satisfied with an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130100	It is clear that this is a compromise and therefore there are also different views on it. Some people disagree with the compromise that has been made. Some people agree with this, but of course they still have wishes and would go further. And that's quite fair. It's politics. That is why politics, as Mrs Signe Munk said before, is the art of the possible. And here we have found a green way forward, if you like, for car transport. Well, that is a significant change compared to what we are seeing today. It is a more relaxed phase-in compared to what the previous government has done. We're spending 2.5 billion. kr. from the green room to ensure that we get boosted the sale of green cars. This is a significant step in the green direction. It is quite fair that you can have the view that you want to be even more ambitious, but then, as I said before, it is a question of (1) where the money should come from, and (2) what it has to do with the everyday lives of ordinary families. These are the questions that arise here. And there I think we have found the right balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130204	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130206	If we look at the money, there is, of course, a European analysis that says that a hybrid car over its lifetime emits 28 tonnes of CO2 That is actually not so much a difference. Nevertheless, there is a huge tax relief for hybrid cars. If we are now in the process of financing: would it not have been wiser to grant the tax relief for electric cars which emit 3.8 tonnes of CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130242	You can have long discussions about that. It can be said that there is some correlation between the way in which the tax system is linked and the green transition. That, of course, is also part of the reason for it. I choose to look at what I think is the basic and structural here. And that is that we go from having a tax system in the car sector with all sorts of exhilarating deductions and supplements, and indeed basically one, if you like, challenge in terms of really promoting the green transition. And that's what's changed here. And in 2025, we're gonna come back and look at it. How's the technology? How's the market? How do prices develop, can we do more, can we support it more, can we spread the infrastructure more? All these things are going to be discussed in this circle, so I look forward very much to the discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130326	Thank you. The next one I would like to give the floor to is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130331	Now I have listened a little to this discussion and I have heard the tax minister stand and say that it is a big and heavy and complicated agreement that has been made. And I agree with the tax minister. That is why I have a very clear question. If we now take the truck tax: what difference will there be for the small transport company in North Jutland, let us say in Brovst, in relation to the large transport company located in Roskilde? Can the Minister of Taxation comment on this in relation to what it will do in the light of the differences between the two companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130412	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130413	The Left is talking about the truck tax, as if there is no such tax today, so it has actually been part of the introduction itself. So it is wrong to talk about the absence of a truck tax. There is such a vignette scheme that both foreign and Danish trucks pay for today. We increase it, and why do we do it? We do so because we want heavy transport to contribute more to the green transition, because the tax, if you like, more reflects the burden of heavy transport on the climate and the environment. How it is precisely arranged is one of the things we're going to discuss towards 2025, where we're going to look at how this is going to be phased in. And it will take into account land and city, strain and other conditions. This is some of what we are looking at and which we have agreed in the circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130509	Thank you. Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130512	Does this mean that I hear the tax minister saying that you will certainly think about the transport company in Brovst and that you can see that there are challenges there? And does this mean that we should not be standing here again and that the tax minister has actually ended up killing the transport company in Brovst? Or what do I hear the tax minister say about this? For does the Minister of Taxation recognise that there is a difference between the small transport company in Brovst and the big one in Roskilde?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130537	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130539	There is no doubt that there is, and that is also why we have written into the agreement as the Left can see that it is one of the elements we are going to return to and ensure that the goal we have to fetch 1 billion. kr. If you like, additional from the truck tax must be finally organized so that it naturally reflects where in the country you drive and on which roads you drive. This type of element is one of the things that will be possible to differentiate with the new EU rules that are on the way to being implemented now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130621	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no more brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130651	The debate is open and I would like to welcome the Minister of Taxation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121130716	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the opportunity to discuss another motion for a resolution from the Liberal Alliance. This time we will be discussing a motion for a resolution, which, of course, is one of them. It is about putting a stop to the burden. Firstly, I would like to make it clear that the government fully agrees with the intention behind the motion for a resolution, namely that we must create not only safe but also good framework conditions for business in the future, so that we have the best conditions for restoring growth and getting out as quickly as possible on the other side of the terrible crisis that we are in. Government may not surprisingly disagree with the elements that the Liberal Alliance points out may be the way to do so. The economic situation is therefore very challenging at the moment, and there is no doubt that the strict pursuit of a stop to the burden will limit the possibilities of pursuing, above all, an appropriate economic policy. Furthermore, the government has not cancelled our own objectives that we want to strengthen welfare, that we want to reduce climate change and that we want to pull our society in a more just direction in general. And that is why, of course, we will not disclaim the opportunity to use some of the tools in the toolbox, because then we will miss the opportunity to hand over a more climate-friendly and fairer Denmark, where there is also more developed welfare for the next generations. It is the government's clear starting point that the tax should not increase for ordinary Danes. With the 2020 Finance Act, we have rolled back a number of unfair tax rebates that the previous government has given to special groups. We have done this in order to finance priority efforts in the field of welfare and to implement more initiatives that we announced before the elections. We have also said quite openly and frankly that the financial sector should contribute more than it does, and that is why we have agreed that the financial sector should make an additional contribution to society so that more people can have a dignified withdrawal after a long and hard working life. And the financing of this will then come into effect only in 2023. Tax policy must help to ensure good, stable conditions for the green transition, and the green transition must take place gradually, so that both citizens and, of course, businesses can adjust to the new times. If we look at the agreement on a green tax reform and the agreement we have just discussed here before this point, that is to say the agreement on a green shift in road transport, then the government and the multiple figures behind the agreements have come closer to achieving the ambitious objective that we have set ourselves here in the Folketing, i.e. a 70-percent reduction in CO2 We have taken into account the corona crisis by simultaneously implementing tax reductions. In addition, we have implemented significant tax reductions on green cars and minor increases in taxes on petrol and diesel vehicles, as we mentioned earlier. This ensures that having a car doesn't get so expensive, so what I pointed out before the day-to-day life of ordinary families can still hang together. Similarly, if we look at the green tax reform we have set in motion a significant shift in our tax system here. We do this by supporting this development with also significant tax cuts, so that companies are helped to adapt, which at the same time also helps to give a green kick-start to the economy. As I said, it is a priority for the government to restore growth and ensure that Danish companies and employees get through the crisis best. Therefore, the government, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, has also implemented, one can safely say, historically large aid packages to the business community in order to support companies and hold hands under Danish jobs in a very difficult time. We have among other things. billions of dollars are earmarked for wage compensation, compensation for fixed costs and also for lost revenue. We have temporarily increased corporate deductions for research and development costs, and we will increase the incentives for companies to invest in research and development and thus the future both for the benefit of Danish society and also for the benefit of companies' future export adventures. We have also set aside 2 billion. kr. for conversion operations. The money must include: In addition, there is a need to promote the conversion of small and medium-sized enterprises into hard-hit areas, targeted training efforts, the establishment of regional growth teams and 110%. unemployment benefit for unemployed persons who are trained as social assistants and others. As a society, as I said, we have invested billions of kroner in holding hands under Danish companies and Danish jobs. We do this to ensure that Denmark gets through the crisis in the best possible way. It is not just a serious economic crisis that we are in, with setbacks, people who are losing jobs, companies that unfortunately have to close down we must do everything we can to keep our hands under them, but it is also a difficult and challenging and serious health crisis that we are facing. So getting the infection down is the only way forward. And to hold hands under companies and employees and secure as many jobs as possible is the way forward for Danish society in the very serious situation we are in now, and this cannot be achieved if the Liberal Alliance's motion for a resolution is implemented here and therefore the government does not agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131307	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen from LA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131311	When we try to have a debate about the fact that, at a time and in a situation where business is challenged by the economic crisis, which is a companion of the health crisis created by the corona, there is no point in introducing structures into Danish society that knock down companies that take money away from them, because you want to spend more money in Danish society in the future, the response from the government is always, and we heard from the tax minister that right now in these corona months it is giving a lot of subsidies. But that's not what it's all about. Because it is about the fact that the answer to the economic crisis cannot be that we are in the future making the structures in Denmark worse for companies. And that means that the stoppage we are proposing is, of course, a stop for the government to change the structures of Danish society in the long term, so that it becomes worse for companies to operate in Denmark. Will the Minister of Taxation deal with this rather than just talking about the government's temporary measures during these corona months?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131419	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131419-2	I am not just talking about the temporary measures. The green tax reform that we have made with a broad majority in the Folketing is, after all, a structural transformation of our tax system, which we are now entering into. It will be supported by tax cuts to Danish business until 2025 overall on gross 5.3 billion. kr., I think it is. It is a huge transformation of our tax system. In 2021 and 2022 we also support companies' opportunities to invest in research and development with a large amount of billions, which will contribute to promoting and strengthening research and development in the Danish business community, thereby promoting a competitive advantage for Danish business. So the picture that is being drawn is not right, and if we are finally going to stick to the short-term, then the reality is that if we did not do what the government is doing now and we had not pursued the expansive financial policy that we have done and did not hold hands under almost 80 000 jobs, the cake would have been smaller.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131535	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131536	When you talk about the burdens imposed on Danish industry, it is of no use that the government is constantly saying that the burdens are being reduced here without talking about the places where the government is increasing the burden. In other words, the government's gross tax relief is not a net effect of government policy. The government's policy net for Danish business and for Danish citizens is to increase taxes for about 11 billion. kr. These years and months. That is a problem, and I would like the Minister of Taxation to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131612	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131614	We are pursuing an economic policy which, both in the short term and in the long term, is firstly linked and, secondly, helps to ensure that Denmark gets through the crisis better than the countries we typically compare with. That's what's real. You could easily choose another way. If you had chosen it, as Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen believes that the reality is that there would then have been a risk that the almost 80 000 jobs under the crisis policy would not be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131648	Thank you. The next point to make is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131652	Thank you. I think it is a very good issue that the Liberal Alliance raises. After all, we are dealing with a government that has raised taxes for more than 12 billion. kr. If we now take the previous pension, you make a social contribution, an extra tax on the financial institutions, which will be passed on to the Danes, so that it becomes more expensive to buy a house, it becomes more expensive to save up for pension, and you make a storage tax. And the tax minister does not recognise that it is one of the things that makes it harder for the Danes to save, and that it makes it harder for Danes to invest and ensure that we get growth in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131740	The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131741	When I look at what this government has done with action, there are quite a few of them in the area of taxation, for which the author's party has itself voted. This applies, for example, to tobacco taxes. I believe that what was criticized by the Left at the time was that it was not done quickly enough by the government. There are a whole series of other things, such as: The tightening of taxation on leasing cars, for which the Left has chosen to vote, is not entirely pure. You just have to remember that when you take this discussion. In relation to the financing of Arnes, whether you want to withdraw earlier, because he has had a hard and grueling working life, I am incredibly pleased that he managed to reach an agreement with the Danish People's Party, which makes it possible to remedy what was, after all, the wrong version of a crisis policy that the then left-wing government led when we last had a crisis. Who was asked to pay the bill back then? It was Arne and his friends at work and in the van and those who were on the daily allowance. That's how it was, and that's what we chose from.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131847	Thank you. Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131851	Can the Minister tell us how much extra money should be paid as a consumer to have money in the bank when the government introduces a social contribution? And what does that mean for the individual consumer? The government must have figured that out, that is, how much extra it has become more expensive. How many Danes have been covered by these tax increases? The Socialists went to the polls on a promise that max. 5% would be covered by these tax increases, but what is the real figure?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131916	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121131917	There are plenty of opportunities for the financial sector to avoid, if you like, passing it on to consumers. There are some parts of the financial sector and some of the banks that in other contexts are very busy doing so if you look at what is being paid for by fees and what is being paid for by negative interest rates and other things. Here there are opportunities to increase competition in the financial sector. You could start by doing that. We could start by promoting transparency and transparency so that, as bank customers, we had better opportunities to place our money and what else we have elsewhere. This was something that could help lower prices so that consumers would not experience what I see some people have threatened with. But this must be linked to the fact that one is not interested in increasing competition in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132001	Thank you. The next point to make is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132006	It is actually just very short: what does the tax minister think is best for the Danish business community? more taxes or that we just stay at the same level? So, what's best for Danish business? Is it more taxes and charges? Or is it not so good for Danish business?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132028	The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132029	You are tempted to ask what you thought when you were in government yourself. One cannot then stand down in the Chamber now and claim that nothing has ever been touched that was approaching an increase in tax when one was responsible. So I think it's kind of hollow. And when I look at the list here, I can see that there is a Left who speaks with two tongues. We do not want to admit that, for example, when it comes to the tobacco tax, we have a responsibility to assume responsibility. So you just have to remember to tell that. It's fine. That's what this is about. For one of the reasons why we are able to create such a thing, if you like, top tuned, in an international context adaptable, modern welfare societies, which we have, and one of the reasons why we hopefully get through the crisis quickly at least better than the countries we typically compare ourselves to • is that we make broad political agreements, where we see things from various sides, where we do not have clear ideological views on what to do and what not to do and where we get it through. Then we solve the problems and then we reach our political goals along those lines. These are taxes and taxes, and they are tax reductions. That's what the government has done. We have carried out a green tax reform with over 5 billion. kr. in tax incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises. I think that is very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132141	Thank you. Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132143	Now I think it is a little bit sought that the tax minister keeps coming up with the tobacco tax, because it doesn't really have anything to do with this. It had something to do with the health of the consumer. The reason I asked, as I asked, is that, for example, there is a problem. has been an excellent motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party in terms of removing crazy taxes, and I do not know what. There you got the impression that the government itself had something on the way, but nothing has really come. So I'm gonna ask you again, which way does the government want to go with this? Can we not see that there is some sense in removing taxes and levies?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132225	The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132225-2	Certainly if there are any of them that are actually crazy. I think we're just having a little disagreement about what crazy might be here. That is why it is also about politics. But it is not just tobacco taxes that the Left has helped to increase. That's a lot of things. So before you start this discussion, I think you should tell the truth about what you have been involved in and perhaps also tell what you did last time you were responsible so that you get the complete picture of it. We are pursuing a policy that helps to ensure that, hopefully, Denmark will get through the crisis we are in now more safely and that we will lay the foundations for a return to growth and prosperity after the crisis. That is the policy of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132303	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Taxation. There are no more brief comments. The next thing we should welcome is the Social Democrat rapporteur. It is actually the case that one should remember to sprite off oneself, but now the rapporteur is doing it right for the minister here. The Minister of Taxation (Thank you). Thank you very much for that. Here you go, sir. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132326	Thank you. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution on the abolition of burdens on business and, at the same time, the Liberal Alliance is proposing to roll back all agreed or agreed tax increases during this reign, except for the increased tobacco taxes. In the Social Democratic Party we agree with the intention of the resolution. There are, and must remain, good conditions to operate in Denmark, also in the near future, so companies have good conditions to get out on the other side of the corona crisis. That is why we invest billions in bringing Danish companies and jobs safely through the crisis. The government and a broad majority in the Folketing have made historical aid packages. The Finance Act set aside funds for SME conversion efforts and targeted support for hard-hit industries, such as: the experience industry. The many recovery measures help to restore growth in society in the years to come. For example, it has. This meant that in 2020 we experienced fewer bankruptcies than in the previous four years according to Statistics Denmark. However, we believe that a stop to the burden will lock the Folketing too much in order to pursue an appropriate economic policy both during and after the corona crisis. In the next ten years, for example, we will be standing. in order to make a comprehensive green transition to our society. It would not be appropriate if not a single tax had to rise or rule had to be tightened up in this respect. With the agreement on green tax reform, for example, we have. This is why it is important for the Commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that all the Member States are able to take the necessary measures to comply with the Community's obligations under the Treaty on European Union. We also continue to have a bottom-up task in restoring welfare. That is why the government has, among other things: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We also have a priority that Danes with long, hard working lives should be able to withdraw worthily from the labour market like everyone else. It's only fair. That is why we have agreed that the financial sector must make an additional contribution in order to finance the right to early retirement. A strictly interpreted stop of burdens will therefore stand in the way of the government's objective of strengthening welfare, supporting the green transition and creating a fairer society. Political priorities require funding and we are fully in line with the changes we have made. The proposers will finance the 5.5 billion. kr., the proposal costs, via the fiscal room for manoeuvre. It will leave less money to invest in welfare, education and green conversion. We in the Socialist Group believe that this is a wrong and wrong priority. We want good framework conditions for business in Denmark, but we do not believe that a stop to burdens is the way forward and we cannot support the proposed funding. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132627	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132631	The Social Democratic Party often tries to see things very isolated from an employee perspective, and that is why I will try to provide an employee perspective for Mr. Malte Larsen. Well, in case Mr. Keating isn't here. Malte Larsen worked on a company and the company was required by the new government to pay something more in tax and tax on the production that the company has, Mr. Mr Larsen is therefore in doubt that this increase in tax or tax would be detrimental to Mr Larsen. Did Larsen's ability to have a good job in the company, possibly get a raise or get some more colleagues or the like?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132715-2	I think that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is trying to address a thoughtful issue that does not escape with the ambitions of social democracy. Firstly, I myself have been employed in private companies, in private companies, in addition. Secondly, when I go around talking to companies today, they say more that they need more skilled labour and good infrastructure than tax reductions. That's the reality I'm living in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132750	Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132753	I'm having a hard time imagining that sir. Malte Larsen on such a tour to companies meets companies who say they need tax increases. That is what is being discussed here: do we need to stop tax increases in companies, or do we not need to stop? And that's where I understand that sir. Malte Larsen and the Social Democratic Party and the government will not put a stop to tax increases on companies. And there is only the question of whether, from the point of view of employees, it is beneficial for the company in which you work to be subject to tax increases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132824	Again, Social Democracy has no ambition to raise taxes against business and make it harder to operate in Denmark. But as I say in my speech, a heavy burden stop, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen calls it here, as well as providing some barriers and some locks, in relation to making sensible green conversion in the future, for example. Last week, LA spent 5 billion dollars. kr. of the annual room for manoeuvre, today 5.5 billion. kr. of the annual room for manoeuvre. It is money which cannot then be spent on education, research and investment in infrastructure. That would be a better direction to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132903	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur we should welcome is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121132927	In the Left, we think that this is a very good resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance. There is no doubt that the Left will calm the economy of Danish companies with a tax, tax and burden stop. We believe that it should not be more expensive to run a business or more expensive to be a Dane. The left is guarding the tax stop. The Corona virus has thrown Denmark into a deep and serious economic crisis. Many Danish companies are suffering and the unemployment queue has grown. This is an extremely serious situation. That is why we in the Left have been involved in adopting aid packages that hold hands under Danish jobs, but we need to use additional funds. The Left therefore wants a tax and tax and burden freeze, because we need a calming of the economy of Danish companies. We must be careful that we do not tax companies so much that it leads to job losses and lost revenue. Denmark needs us to have a well-functioning business sector that can contribute tax dollars in the form of corporation tax and taxes on employees' wages. The fact is that companies are being taxed too hard, their competitive power vis-à-vis abroad can be so challenged that it will result in job losses, more red bottom lines and fewer investments. And who will finance our welfare? There is no doubt that the Socialist Government is pursuing a policy that makes Denmark poorer. The Socialist Government has raised taxes more than 30 times for a total of almost 12 billion. kr. and has made it more expensive to run business and be a Dane, and the government is pursuing a policy in which they withdraw the Danes from the labour market. Left wants another way. We will make Denmark richer and ensure that more will become part of the working community. We are fighting to reduce the damage caused by the government's harmful tax increases, because we want a tax freeze, so there is peace of mind about Danish companies and the Danish economy. There should be no doubt that the Left is watching over the tax freeze. The Left is a party that stands by its word, and when we have said that we stand at a tax freeze, we do so when it hurts. There is no doubt about that. The Left simply has so much sympathy for the proposal and fully agrees with the criticism of the government and we would also like to roll back the government's harmful tax increases. The only thing is that we can doubt how much this is going to cost. And when I put it this way, it's because we can't really quite figure out how many accidents this government can do in the future too. So this can be a really, really expensive bill. That's why we're just saying that ah, we'd like to do everything we possibly can, but what's it gonna cost? It's the only thing where we just think hm. Because we are simply very positive about this resolution and we think it is super wonderful when other parties want to implement our policy and implement it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133226	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133231	It is a bit strange to find out that with this resolution we will be pursuing the policy of the Left, but the Left will not vote for it anyway. Well, the Left will not vote for its own policy. Apparently, this is not the policy of the Left, because otherwise we could vote for it. What amazes me a little is the fact that you are opposed to tax increases, but if you come to power, you will not remove the tax increases that others have introduced again. What does that mean? If someone is doing what you are against, would you like to roll it back again, would you not, or would there be a little too much tactic and strategy and polls and something like that for the Left sometimes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133322	That's not what I'm thinking at all. What I am thinking of is that we have a government and every time they make a proposal, the only way they can finance it is by doing a lot of taxbashing: we raise taxes, we raise taxes, we do a lot of things. The Liberal Alliance has suggested that we take off the room to fund this. The problem is also that we have some kind of demographic trait, because there are increasing numbers of older people. Therefore, what we are saying is that we will take back everything we can at all, and the Liberal Alliance does not hear me say that we are against the proposal either. I'm just saying we need to figure out what this is gonna cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133400	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen has no further brief comments. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133405	There is little in the proposal as to what they expect it to cost. We discussed a proposal here the other day, where Liberal Alliance, Conservatives, Danish People's Party and New Citizens all agreed that it was sensible to lower corporate tax. There, the Left refused to lower corporate tax because it was financed through economic leeway. So I would like to ask the rapporteur if, in the words of the rapporteur, it is not possible to finance a halt to expenditure and burden-sharing through economic room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133440	The problem lies in the fact that there are a great many motions for resolutions at the moment, which other parties want to see financed through economic leeway. How much room for manoeuvre is that? We stand a little up here and say that we in the Left will also have room for welfare, after all, it is not. We think that the way in which the government conducts its policy is quite in the air, and that is not the way we want to go at all. We just have a small reservation that if we are to bring everything back from all of the government's misfortunes, it could be expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133516	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133517	Okay, so the Left has still gone away from the policy on which they went to the polls, namely that you want to spend all the economic space on increased welfare • is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133527	The Left has the policy that we want to ensure that we have welfare in Denmark. We're getting older. At the same time, however, we do not believe that we should ensure this by raising taxes and raising taxes and all that. This is not the way we want to go at all. So I don't want anyone to get me wrong. I also stand here and say that I think this is a very good resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133552	The next person I give the floor to is Mr. Knox. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133610	Now it is not because I have to interfere in the debate between the New Civil and Liberal Alliance and the Left, but as I read the motion for a resolution, it is about the future of what I really want to ask is: now that the rapporteur on the Left says that the tax freeze is being guarded, is there an official definition of the tax freeze of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133656	Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133657	I would like to start by saying that I think the questioner himself should ask the Liberal Alliance what exactly is meant by their motion for a resolution. I do not think it is I who should say anything about it. But so, we don't want it to be more expensive to be a Dane, and it shouldn't be more expensive to operate in Denmark. And we have a government that does not agree with us at all, we can feel right now. They are going the other way, certainly with the help of the questioner, and we do not think that is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133731	Here you go for a second brief remark by Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133735	So is my question, which I shall try to ask again: is there an official definition of the tax freeze of the Left, and if there is one, where can we read this definition?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133751	I would like to refer the questioner to the website called www.venstre.dk. It is a very good website and I am sure that the questioner will be able to learn a lot and be inspired by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133803	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Left may then be allowed to speak out. There are no more brief comments. Thank you. DF's rapporteur is ready. Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121133821	We are dealing here with a resolution which deals with two things, although of course they are connected. One is a stop to the burden on the private sector, and another is the cancellation of agreed or planned tax increases. I will start with the burden-stop, which is, of course, a burden-stop for the period 2021-2023, where it is said that there should be no new administrative burdens, but also no new taxes, and we are in agreement with this, in other words, that there should be no new burdens, and indeed no future taxes, for our businesses either. It is important that they have a predictable framework, and so is entrepreneurship. I mean, I think some of what can scare people away is if you see that there are too many things to report, and there are rules and taxes and other things. It can make it hard to figure out what's up and down in it. But something I wondered when I read the proposal was why it was really only for business. Well, I assume that the Liberal Alliance agrees with us that it is not good either if it is just taxes and burdens for the citizens. It would have been possible to extend the proposal to include other things, but it is clear that there has to be a demarcation, and I assume that is why it has been chosen that it is only the business community, so as not to get too much into the debate and perhaps muddle it. Perhaps there would be too many who would be against it for that reason. If I have to say one of my anchors, which I have of it I kind of agree that there should be no more burdens for business as a whole, then it is that it is planned that this is such a very absolute arrangement. I mean, I could imagine saying to a company that they might be better at, for example. to sort plastic. That would be a burden, but it is only important to relax somewhere else in order to reduce the overall burden. But if you say that there are no things that must become more difficult, you can say, for them, we will also be very locked and you cannot develop society. That is what I fear a little if one makes such a very absolute arrangement. You can also imagine not to say that it should be so that you might tighten up some duty to audit, perhaps to avoid some tax evasion and to ensure more equal competition. It could be a good thing if we then lowered some burdens or taxes somewhere else, so companies realized that. But I fear a little that if you make such an absolute arrangement, we will be very locked up and cannot act in the world that is changing out there and where there may be a need for some different measures. But overall we agree with the intention that we should have fewer burdens. I can also imagine that it would be great if a common objective could be achieved, just as we did in the climate field. Just as the 70-percent objective was achieved in the climate area, could we not achieve a 70-percent objective here, so all the burdens must be eliminated or something? We can see that it obliges the parties of the Folketing to work constructively against it. It could be exciting, and then it might be that there was one burden that was set up, but if we could remove five others, then I could live with it, in other words to prevent it becoming such an absolute agenda. Then there is the second part of what I would like to talk about again and, of course, which I have mentioned, is connected. It is a question of cancelling all tax increases since the elections, with the exception of the tobacco tax. And there I would like to say that I wonder why the tobacco tax is exempt. I mean, it's a tax increase, isn't it? Of course, it mostly affects consumers and not so much business, but after all it is a tax increase. So it's really weird why you haven't brought the whole palette. However, we in the Danish People's Party agree that the overall tax burden should not increase, but again it will be so much locked if you say that no taxes and taxes are allowed to rise. In the forthcoming green tax reform, I can imagine, for example. would like to introduce a CO2 So, it could be a lower electricity tax, or it could be a lower corporation tax. We could actually live with a CO2 so it is again a bit the same appeal that is about that it can become very inflexible if it becomes such an absolute tax stop, where there is nothing that can be touched or tampered with. I think that will lock society up more and perhaps have more negative consequences than what you really want. I would also like to say, although I am not necessarily proud of it, that I cannot accept this proposal either, because there are, after all, some tax increases that we have been involved in since the elections. That, too, makes it impossible for us to accept this resolution, because we still have to stand behind the agreements we are in. But overall, the message is also that we want the overall tax burden not to increase. That is also what was expressed, for example. in the motion for a resolution tabled by the same authors of the Liberal Alliance on Friday, which made it possible for us to support the reduction of corporation tax by 1%. It was to compensate for the tax increases that we have, after all, been involved in. So there is a lot of support for the intentions in this, that is, that we should try to keep administrative burdens down for business, but among other things. Because of the fact that we are in agreements with which we are bound, we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134253	Thank you to DF's rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134258	This is just the way to clarify some of the questions that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær has asked, for example. why we exclude tax increases on tobacco taxes. It is because we want to keep this resolution in a business context, because we want to bring together all the parties that agree that business should not be burdened more. And it would be a pity if there were some of the parties who could not be there because they want tobacco taxes, which are a consumer tax, to be increased. So it is a desire to narrow it to business-related, so that we get as many parties as possible. As regards administrative burdens, I can say that the comments say that if it is urgently necessary to increase administrative burdens on businesses, for example. If it is the European Union that has instructed us to do something, then compensatory burden relief can be made elsewhere. So that's what Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær proposes is, in fact, already part of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134354-2	Thanks for the clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134401	There are no more brief comments, of course, just at the last minute. Here you go to Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134403	I just wanted to know if the rapporteur thinks that the current Socialist Government is doing enough to remove the crazy charges. In other words, has the rapporteur discovered whether they have gone ahead with it or what does the rapporteur think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134423-2	No, we had the discussion ourselves, among other things. on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. So, no, on the contrary, a few hacked taxes have been reinstated, among other things. on rainy clothes, on barbecue covers, on roller curtains, on letter-orders and all these things. So you have actually gone the wrong way by charging, I would say. So something has happened, but it has gone in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134446	Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134447	So what I just want to clarify is: is the rapporteur equally disappointed and does he have as many disappointed expectations of the government? Because has the rapporteur not also, like me, heard that they had intended to do something in this area and has the rapporteur discovered that something has happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134506	Thank you for the question. The argument in the debate at the time on the motion for a resolution on the elimination of crazy taxes was that you could not support it because you were on your way with something that was the reason for it. I could then understand that what you were about to do was new pawned charges.I had actually understood that what you were about to do was your own proposal to remove pawned charges. But no, nothing has come in the way of what one gave an indication that one wanted to then, other than one has in fact made things worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134530	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no more brief comments. Fancy that it just gets spritted off, and then you walk down the stairs. It's so good. Here you go to Mrs. Kathrine on Wednesday from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134543	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Liberal Alliance for this proposal. This is a really good example of how we talk about reality from different angles in the different parties, and it also shows something about what kind of ideological position we stand by. A burden, what is it? It can be said that, as far as I am concerned, a burden on companies is also something else. We can see quite empirically that for 40%. of Danish small and medium-sized enterprises it is a huge problem to get VAT correctly reported. So there we miss about 14 billion. kr. in the Treasury every year due to misreported VAT. It can therefore be concluded that this is simply too much bureaucratic and administratively difficult. However, this problem has been ignored by the previous government, and it has certainly not set aside money for preventive action in the field of VAT control, as the current government, together with the support parties, has done. So we are now trying to make the VAT area and the reporting of correct VAT as easy and transparent as reporting on personal taxes. The former rapporteur asked: why do we not also relieve the burden on ordinary Danish citizens? In fact, we have done exactly that in the field of personal taxation without necessarily reducing taxes or taxes. But then we say that the administrative problem of reporting has been removed. So, for me, burden relief is also about how we do it, i.e. how difficult it should be for our companies to behave properly and in accordance with Danish law. I find it extremely difficult with the Liberal Alliance's version of burden relief, because it is, of course, a question, as I understand the rapporteur's proposal, and this is a mild one and a small step towards the fact that we are simply removing taxes and taxes and rules for the Danish business community that business can get it as easily as possible. We tried that in the 00s under the leadership of the Left, where we had a burden relief paradigm in the Danish Parliament. And one of the consequences of this was that we had the biggest tax scandal in European history or world history: the profit tax scandal in which European governments and not least Danish governments have been robbed and cheated for several billions of dollars. And every time the chief of the profit tax department at that time came to the Danish Parliament with wishes for tightening and raising the red flag and warned over and over again, it was only met with one thing: the burden relief paradigm as a wall against the cheating that took place at that time. So it seems to me that the red flag is raised to such an extent when there is talk of burden relief. I would really like to help talk about prevention, administrative relief, how to make it easier, but not about burden relief in a Liberal Alliance submission. So it's gonna be a no from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134901	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121134904	I do not believe that the profit scandal can be attributed to an ambition of a previous government in the '00s to burden the companies. I think more that the radical rapporteur should look back on some of the work that, for example, has to be done. In the VLAK government, where the then business ministers were at the forefront of constantly weighing up the burdens we impose on business, and whether we can remove unnecessary burdens, so that things are balanced or even better for businesses. To our delight, former Minister for Business and Industry, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov now, as tax rapporteur, explains about it. There have been no scandals; on the contrary, there has been relief in the business community because there has been an ambition to do better for businesses. I do not think the radical rapporteur should deny that. It should also be a good radical policy that the burdens can be minimized, and they must.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135004	Kathrine illdag, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135005	Again, this is the definition of what we're really talking about when we're talking about burdens. In relation to whether the burden relief paradigm was a stop-block to do something about the tax on dividends, I would just like to refer to the huge clearing-up work that is currently underway, and also the journalistic work where, for example, we are dealing with. in the podcast • The hidden shareholders• explain how the head of the department of the then profit tax department repeatedly puts forward this paradigm as a brake on her work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135037	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135038	But that is certainly not what we want. We do not want to create systems that allow you to cheat on taxes; that is at least one hundred percent safe. But what we want, for example, is to act. on, when a government has an unbridled urge to spend money on new things, and then it introduces that every company every year, with accountants and the expertise needed, must calculate the value of their buildings so that the government can tax things on a continuous basis. After all, it is an extra burden on top of the tax payment that comes because there are some politicians who do not set limits on themselves. Do you radicals agree that we should prevent such a thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135117-2	Nice. Now we can start talking a little more about what might actually be interesting. Because it's complete, as the rapporteur before me, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned: This is something about the fact that if you don't get hard on a paradigm or some absolute one, we can actually start talking about this as a flexibility or a way of working with politics that can actually make sense, including for companies. So if one is to ease the absurdities in one place, then it may be that they need to be tightened somewhere else, depending on what makes sense in terms of content and not where burden relief is an end in itself, but where it is a means of a better policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135154	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135157	I was just called to speak because it was pointed out that the profit scandal was about a freeze on expenditure and so on. in the public sector. But if the legislation is now simplified and many of the scandals we have seen are due to really, really complicated legislation, which the authorities cannot manage anyway and which companies cannot manage, and that means that there will be holes that people can take advantage of if you simplify it, for example. If you removed capital taxes, you didn't have this problem. And with that simplification there would also be a minor abuse, and there would be less money to be spent on managing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135236	I remember that we had a similar discussion at one time, and the New Citizens' rapporteur wanted to make a tax policy that was 1 A4 page. And we will probably never have such a society, because it might look more like Tobago or Jamaica or another low-tax country where there is total freedom of play for any form of tax speculation. And we in the Radical Left are not interested in that. There may be rules, they may be simple, they may be transparent, they may be feasible and easy to deal with for companies. We would very much like to discuss this type of burden relief, but not just the removal of all taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135308	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135309	No, but the speculation in tax thinking comes from the fact that you have a fine-meshed system, which there are some holes in which you can use. Another example we can take is VAT deduction, which we talked about here the other day, and that there are two different VAT rates. That makes you think: Okay, have these employees been to an internal meeting, or have they actually been out to eat? And that way you can move it around. And that is only because politicians have created a system in which there are two different deductions from VAT. That is why a simplification makes it very likely that there will be less cheating, and those who cheat are easier to find because their violations become quite obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135350	I think we could actually discuss simplification of VAT or deduction, perhaps especially deduction, and have an interesting discussion about it, because I think there will actually be some overlap, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathisen. Anyway, a simplification where we hit 1 A4 page we probably never really get there. And I understand that it's just a picture, but so, it could be nice if New Citizens actually went more real politically into these discussions in the future. So the kind of discussions that would be delicious.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135414	The next brief remark is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135418	First of all, I would like to express my gratitude for a detailed speech by the rapporteur. The reason I have taken the floor is, in fact, the profit tax scandal and it is not so much because of it. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I am just surprised that, according to the rapporteur, the reason why we have been cheated on so many billions of dollars should be a stop to the burden. Well, the fraud took place from 2010 to the summer of 2015. In fact, during that period there was a social democratic and radical government in which taxes and taxes increased and there were more burdens on business. So I find it hard to see exactly what the connection is to the load-stop. And no, I do not think it was the fault of the old government that there was profit fraud. There were many factors, and there is a commission that is about to clarify now, that is, what is up and down in it. So it's not to do some kind of guilt placement. But I wonder how exactly it is that this is such a burden debate that we have been cheated on so many billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135509	So, historically, the tax minister in Helle Thorning-Schmidt's government actually made use of the ministerial opportunity that he had. I just can't remember who was minister at the moment, but there are others in this Chamber who were in an order, and it was actually used. The reason why it was simply impossible to stem the tide was first and foremost that the austerity did not go far enough; it was still impossible to name who had which shares and in what way. There was simply still no money left for the supervisory body or for the upgrading of controls in the tax administration. And then the government simply changed too quickly for that government to pursue its intentions of closing that gap. Because it is quite clear that there was an intention on the part of the then tax minister to actually make use of this announcement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135559	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135600	But when you look at the tax scandal, there is the paradox that those who had to sit and control it may have controlled something, but it was at least the wrong thing. So, in principle, you could ask for a refund for dividends, for example. at the football club F.C. Copenhagen, without having paid any dividends at all. I mean, there was no control, and it has nothing to do with an administrative burden. It was about being able to do your job and having some control mechanisms. But it was also about them actually looking further up in the system: how can it be that refunds and dividends increase by several billions each year; why were there some times when you refunded more than you got into the dividend tax? I mean, there were no alarm bells ringing, so I just think it's a little funny that you just put it up to the effect that it was due to administrative burdens that you didn't do anything. For it is the whole chain that has jumped at all stages both in relation to the control that there was no follow-up and that there was no corporate governance in the Treasury. It's all around. But the rapporteur then felt that it was the administrative burden that caused it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135655	There is no doubt that it was also about savings in that department. During the period we are talking about, you almost went from having 50 employees to being down to two employees. And it was also some decisions that were taken by the then government, namely that tax administration would have to be spared, because we could achieve everything by half. That is why many people are responsible for the collapse of the tax administration. And it would take the rest of the day if we were to go through that culprit catalogue, I think. But basically, the former head of the department of this department says that the last crunchy • where something could happen in the future was that you bumped your head into this burden relief paradigm time and again in the Parliament hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135734	The next brief remark is to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135738	It was just this discussion that led me to stand up because the rapporteur was told that one cannot remember who was the tax minister. I can understand that, because during Helle Thorning-Schmidt's reign, it was like changing the tax minister, as the rest of us might change something else. So perhaps the current tax minister should be happy to be still tax minister today. At the same time, like someone who was employed there during that period, I had to clarify that this was actually the period when there were actual layoffs in the then SKAT. There were two of them. So that's it. But now that I am still standing and have time to talk, I can see, I would like to ask: does the rapporteur think that the current government has got off to a good start on the charges imposed here, or what does the rapporteur think about that? The rapporteur has previously voted against an excellent motion for a resolution because the rapporteur was sure that the current government was working on its own. Have they?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135836	After all, I am so far from the Treasury that I cannot set the precise timetable here. But we have received, what should we say, signals, as I think the Minister usually calls it, that this work is on its way. So we'll get to that, I'm pretty sure. Otherwise, I would like to join with the Left in asking a little lovingly about that. I'll do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135900	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135903	I have also heard the tax minister say at one point very long ago that there were some signals going on, but then I have not discovered anything at all. And I think I'm pretty good at picking up signals. So that is why I wanted to know whether the rapporteur himself had discovered anything. But otherwise I am very pleased that the rapporteur will be involved in doing something with the Left in this area, in case the current government does not get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135929	That depends, of course, on what the Left is making up. But I would like to have a cup of coffee with the rapporteur over that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135937	So I would like to thank the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121135954	Thank you. The one part of the proposal basically asks the government to roll back its own policy. I think that would be a very strange decision to make. The second part is a so-called 'burden stop', which will rigidly prevent us from pursuing progressive policies. The proposal must be financed through the scope and I remember how we stood in this Chamber recently and had a debate about whether something was unfunded if it was financed through the scope. In that debate, I actually agreed with Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen in that politics not per. definition is unfunded just because it is financed through the scope, but let me nevertheless point out that the B proposals from this and last week from the Liberal Alliance would cost the state nearly 10 billion. kr., and it also had to be taken from the room. We must therefore be careful not to finance too many proposals in the future through the scope if it is to be realistic. Because you keep using the same source of funding every time, you don't have an overall economic policy. You just have a whole lot of proposals with the same funding. We cannot support the proposal here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121140102	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121140106	Well, it was just about funding: in the time until a proposal is adopted, the funding is not used. It was something else if corporate tax reductions were now adopted, and then funding was withdrawn from economic scope, because then it would not be possible to use it. But if you have 100 kroner. In your pocket and then you choose not to buy a chocolate bar, then you can choose to use the 100 kr. on buying a bag of chips, because then you haven't used them. So if the money has not been spent and the proposal has not been voted through, it can be pointed out as funding for something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121140137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121140139	No, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen, I don't think you can actually do that. I think it would be strange if the SF tabled one motion for a resolution after another, where we pointed out every single time, for example. a wealth tax as a financing model, because then we did not have a clear policy on what we really wanted to do, what we wanted to use a wealth tax to finance. That is why we have, for example. for a long time said that we would like to finance minimum standards in our plan through a wealth tax. Now there have been minimum standards, but without a wealth tax, and we can of course use that funding for something else, that is clear. But if you want a single economic policy as a party, you cannot use the room for manoeuvre every time you make political proposals, because then you do not have a clear priority. Then it's just too easy. So you have to come up with a proposal on how to finance your things, and then you have to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121140231	Apparently, that was a clear answer. Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin on behalf of the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121140302	Denmark has one of the world's most business-friendly, competitive and innovative societies, and we have this to a large extent because we have a strong welfare society and a strong community that invests in free education, health, good infrastructure • that it is possible to go to hospital when you are ill, that good and free education is provided for people living in this country, so that you can be a good and well-trained workforce for companies. That is also why every time international comparisons are made, Denmark is at the top. It costs money to finance a society that is so business-friendly, so competitive and so innovative, and, of course, the business community must also help to pay for this, not least in a situation where we have seen one tax relief after another in recent years, including in the period from 2015 to 2019, where the bourgeois parties led the agreement on tax reliefs, which will cost 21.7 billion each year. kr. It is the lasting effect of what has been agreed and which creates a hole in the box, compared to what else that money could have been spent on in order to restore welfare and ensure the green transition. So it's hardly gonna come as a shock, I imagine, for sir. Ole Birk Olesen and the Liberal Alliance, that Enhedslisten is voting against this proposal. The fact that for the first time in several years, selected industries have to contribute a little more to the common fund is only fair. In addition, it has to be said that the business community at present. receive billions of kroner in support during the corona crisis • support that to a large extent surpasses the taxes that rise. So, in this respect, companies have no tax liability to complain about. The Enhedslisten has concluded a number of agreements in which, of course, we are also behind the financing of the agreements, and that is why, of course, we will not be supporting a proposal which cancels these reasonable tax increases. We think, for example, that it is fine to close a tax gap for the main shareholders that was created at the beginning of the 1990s. We think it is reasonable, for example, that because it is the case that you inherit a large company, you should not just pay a third of the tax on inheritance tax compared to someone who inherits a summer house. What is really the problem, if we are to highlight a problem with this government and fiscal policy, is that the Socialist Government, to far too large an extent, has only an ambition to continue the status quo. And we have now through two financial laws and also through other initiatives increased equality since the June 2019 elections, but you also have to say it as it is, so if we really do not just have to do something about inequality and not just talk about tackling inequality, there are two gripes we need to look at. One is the tax area where we have to roll back tax rebates, which the wealthiest have received from those who earn the most and have the most, have received them and, as the other, we have to restore the social security net. Otherwise, we will have to note that the fight against inequality, which the paper of understanding talks about, will be more of a name than of benefit. It will certainly not be at a level where it can be said that the many people out there in society who have a legitimate expectation that we will rebuild the social security net and that we will have a tax system that is more equitable will have their wishes met, in relation to what a new government is going to deliver, both in terms of welfare and in terms of green conversion, but also in terms of restoring the equality that has existed in the past and that we will have to fight inequality more effectively. So in relation to this proposal, it's going to be a no from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121140710	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121140715	It is almost a standard situation that when you want to make it easier to run business in Denmark, Enhedslisten answers that business gets so much • take just training. Maybe you can get Mr. Kim. Rune Lund to relate to the fact that in Denmark there is a huge overtraining of people? There are people who go to long higher education and waste years of their lives while they live off the public sector and receive a public service on an education in something that they never use later when they get their diploma. And sir... Rune Lund also dealt with all the many people who are on different forms of unemployment benefit and who are told that in return for these benefits they should sit down on a school bench where they sit unmotivated and receive education that they will never use for anything either?
ParlaMint-DK_20210121140802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121140803	What is the challenge for our society right now and here is not that there is too much education • it is that there is too little. And where we need to take action now is to look at many of the unskilled people we have who need help and economic opportunities to train themselves further so that we can have more skilled labour. This is something we really need, also in relation to the green transition, and it is something that has been important for Enhedslisten to get in, among other things. in the context of the financial law negotiations and the accompanying stimulus package, where there are, among other things, the following: is focused on green continuing training, but where there is also the possibility that you can get a higher unemployment benefit rate of 110% if you are retrained as a sosu assistant, for example. In relation to whether there should be any groups in society who are over-educated, it has to be said that if we look at the unemployment statistics for academics in general and that also applies to the humanities, as I think Mr. Ole Birk Olesen probably in fact refers to the unemployment rate, also for people who have read the humanities, is very low. So the higher you are, the easier you have to find a job, and you can clearly read this from unemployment statistics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121140921	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121140922	The question is not whether you get a job, the question is whether you get a job, where the education that you have spent a lot of your time on and large parts of society's resources on is being used for something that is beneficial to you and to society. And someone who has read history and then spends his entire life serving as a waiter in a restaurant has wasted five years of his life at least compared to what Mr. Rune Lund claims, that is, that training justifies a large tax payment and many burdens on business. Business does not benefit from the fact that the waiter has read history. It is simply not true that there is a great deal of benefit to it. And it is certainly the case that there is large-scale over-education in society and that we are using educational institutions, not in a way that benefits business, but in a way that we park people who would otherwise be passive on public support, then we park them on what we call an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121141020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121141021	I do not agree with the general picture, as I think Mr. Ole Birk Olesen draws from our education system. I do not know whether the Liberal Alliance then believes that one should cut the education system and then spend the money on top tax rebates or what one has imagined. I just want to say that a crucial reason why Denmark can do what we can is that we have a very well-trained workforce, and that also requires training. And if you start sawing over the branch on which you are sitting, namely education, but also research, then at least it is not economic logic and common sense that is behind such thoughts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121141101	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121141129	We can support the motion for a resolution. We had a financial bill this autumn, in which we also proposed to roll back all the tax increases that the government had introduced, with the exception of, of course, the closure of tax gaps, and we are also in favour of tax restructuring, which makes green taxes and then lowers some other taxes, so that it does not result in higher taxes overall, and we have also been in favour of, for example, tax restructuring. an increase in the tobacco tax. Otherwise, however, we are opposed to a rise in the tax burden and we are opposed to the government continuing to introduce new burdens on business. When we sat in government, we made a great deal of effort to reduce the burden on business, both in relation to taxes and taxes, but also in terms of administrative burdens, where we actually sat minutely and measured the number of hours spent in companies when we imposed on them, for example. to fill in a new schedule or other new rules and we managed to remove burdens for business in the time we sat. In fact, billions are being saved in companies today because of the reductions that we made, and it is a pity to see that the new government then only imposes new burdens on business. And I do not recognise that the aid packages would then be a huge help to the business community, that is to say, aid packages, which are the cards that the government always draws when it comes to saying: look how much we do for business. But aid packages are, after all, a substitute for political restrictions that have been imposed on business, and therefore nothing positive for business. So I think it is high time that the government started thinking more about our business community, and that is why I think it is a good proposal, which has been put forward here by the Liberal Alliance, and we will be voting in favour of it. Unfortunately, I think I can predict that there will not be a majority in the Folketing who will do so, and that is a shame. But the Conservative People's Party can count on this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121141342	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens. Welcome to sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121141357	Thank you. We have the world's highest tax burden in Denmark and one of the world's largest public sectors, and when we have the debate on reducing the tax burden and burden on business and citizens, we often get the impression that the Uha, then the Treasury has no means at all to do good with. But I repeat, we have the highest tax burden in the world. So it is not normal, it is not average, if you look out at the rest of the world, in Europe or North America or elsewhere, no, there you can actually run good societies for cheaper money. One might then ask, now that we have the world's highest tax burden, does this mean that we have the world's best schools, that we have the world's best educational establishments, that we have the world's best care for the elderly, hospitals, infrastructure? No, we haven't, and when we don't, it's because there's a significant overspend and the money's being used wrong. Here there is a very good proposal to say: let us stop with these burdens, both those of the 10-11-12 billion. kr., which has been imposed here in the last period of government, but also in the future do not put on new ones during a period when certain parts of the Danish economy are under heavy pressure, and that is extremely reasonable. We would also have liked the proposal to have included an end to the cost and burden of the citizens, and of course we would also have liked to see the tobacco tax included and that we would at the same time remove them. But this is a very good proposal and a step in the right direction, and we can of course support that in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121141556	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next one is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121141610	Thank you. We people are faced with many choices in life, and some are more difficult than others, but one of the difficult choices must be: at least it is too many whether to be a business owner or whether to be an employee, i.e. whether to have your own business and possibly hire someone in it, or whether to be employed in other people's businesses. There are different preferences. Some prefer the more secure employee life, where you just have to go and say: I have some labor, and you can use that to hire me. And then every month you get a salary into the account. It is true that you do not have an opportunity to create a company that may be worth a great deal, so that you can become a millionaire and live on the green branch, but you do not run the risk of everything going wrong and of losing your savings or even ending up in debt, and this employee life is a lot of people who may even prefer most. Others go into it with a curved neck and choose to start a business, and it has to be said that the prerequisite for there being employees in this society is that there are some others who choose to be business owners. The prerequisite for choosing the more secure employee life is that there are others who choose the more insecure life as a business owner. And what can motivate people to be business owners is, of course, some idea that you can do something that the world needs, something that you should set in motion, something that you should produce and put on store shelves, but it's also about what's in it for the individual financially and what's of cost: How much working time do I have to put in this, and how much do I get back in return? It is essential for those considerations to be considered what the taxes on companies are and what work should be done in return in companies, i.e. taxes and burdens. A large part of the burden comes from the rules of the public sector, and they can be difficult to understand, and it can be so difficult to understand that you have to have professional help and pay money for that help, but often at least smaller business owners sit with all the trouble themselves. In our old VLAK government, we had continuous work under the direction of the two business ministers who were in that government to lighten the burden on people who have their own business, and that was done, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has also told of here, very meticulously, by setting the burdens in such a way as to convert their scope into crowns and ears. And then we simply said that if we were to impose a burden on 1 billion. kr. or 100 million kr. We should therefore also reduce the burden on the economy of at least one billion. kr. or 100 million kr. And we had even assumed the ambition that we would remove more burdens than we imposed so that there would be a minus on the burden account, that is, less burdens for companies, and we pursued that every day and in everything we did. This government has stopped that. This government doesn't want that to happen. This government doesn't care about that. And I think that's weird, because why don't you care? In other words, it makes sense to introduce burdens which are inevitable and which should be introduced so as to look at the overall burden and see whether some others are superfluous in return and which we could quite rightly remove, because they no longer serve a purpose or because they are designed in a stupid way, so that we could do it wiser. Why does the new government not want to continue the ambition of making it better to operate in Denmark on the burden front? What is the reasonable explanation for this? As far as taxes are concerned, this government has already adopted tax increases amounting to approximately 11 billion. kr. kr. was introduced before setting up the Arne pension, and then came 2.2 billion. kr. extra with Arnepensionen. It is rolling out in these years and in the years to come, and that is why our proposal is that from 2021 to 2023 no taxes and charges should be raised. We must not introduce new taxes or raise the taxes that we have already agreed to raise. It costs some money for the Treasury, that is correct, but in return society gets richer. It's the big, big disease that's in this Parliament, that you just keep looking at the treasury instead of looking at the community treasury. The community fund is all of us. They are employees, they are employers, they are business owners, they are people who go to work and they are consumers. Society is all of us. The Treasury is only the 179 who sit in the Folketing, those who are employed in the State and those who receive money from the State. It is very one-eyed all the time only to have a look at the treasury, but not to have a look at the community treasury. But we see with many of the taxes, including many of those currently being introduced, that the damage it does to the economy is much greater than the small advantage it is for the Treasury to have some more money because it destroys activity along the way. We believe that introducing additional burdens and additional taxes in a situation where business is affected by the economic consequences of the corona epidemic is like a boxing glove against a black eye. That is why we have put forward this proposal, because we want to ensure that in these corona years, at least, no more burdens and taxes are introduced. And that's what's the intention behind this. And then the government can talk so much about the many, many compensation sums it pays out to business, which are temporary measures to mitigate the negative effects of banning people from operating in these months, but that does no good at all in the long term. It's just an attempt with some substitutes to make sure that the consequences of the hard corona restrictions are mitigated. Thank you to the parties that will vote in favour of the proposal here and also to the parties that have shown willingness. We must look forward to a change of government in Denmark if we really want something on this front, but we will work for that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121142317	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210121142332	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, January 22, 2021, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
