ParlaMint-DK_20210310130002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Inger Støjberg (UFG): Bill no. L 187 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Court of Justice. Bill No. L 188 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Court of Justice. Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill No. L 189 (Proposal for a law amending the criminal code, law on police activities, the law on the administration of justice and the law on foreigners. Minister for Defence (Trine Bramsen): Bill No. L 190 (Proposal for a law on supplier safety in critical telecommunications infrastructure). Minister for Economic Affairs (Simon Kollerup): Bill No. L 191 (Proposal for a law on the screening of certain foreign direct investment, etc.) in Denmark. Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B279 (Proposal for a decision of Parliament that inmates may not, by way of access to documents or otherwise, obtain knowledge of the personal data of prison staff). Mai Mercado (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 280 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of the usefulness of child certificates in society). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Jep Kofod) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4, to give the Folketing a written statement: Statement on selected international organisations. 13). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 6 April 2021. The Committee on Taxation has presented: Report (Developing a Parliamentary Working Group to examine ways of improving the tax conditions for entrepreneurs). 5. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310130146	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 16 March 2021. I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors to explain the question. Mrs. Signe Munk of the Socialist People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310130215	Thank you. Last year a broad majority in the Folketing adopted a new Climate Act for Denmark. At the heart of the Climate Act is that climate targets set by the law are legally binding and that there must be an ongoing annual follow-up to the government's climate action. It must be demonstrated how the objectives of the Climate Act are achieved, otherwise a commitment to action can be implemented either by a majority of the Danish Parliament or by the Minister of Climate Affairs himself. We are in the year one of the Climate Act. We now have a climate programme, a climate action plan and an explanation of the climate effects of the Social Democratic Government. At the same time, the Danish Parliament has just received the Climate Council's academic assessment of the overall climate effort from the government, including an assessment of whether the road has been paved for the 70-percent target by 2030, i.e. whether this is illustrated. The answer from the Climate Council was clear: no. Therefore, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party have called for this query debate, so that the climate minister, on behalf of the government, can give an answer to what the Minister, in the light of the Climate Council's progress report for 2021, will do to get a climate policy in place that illustrates how the government will achieve the goals of the Climate Act. We look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310130355	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310130405	Thank you for that, and thank you to the authors for, I think, a good question and a good opportunity to discuss the government's climate action so far and our plans in the future, but in fact equally the results of the Folketing. It is the case that we have reached about a third of the way forward towards 2030, if you look at the manko we took over. Of course, it is also clear, as the Climate Council states in their report, that the fact that we have reached nominally one third of the reductions we have to do is not necessarily the same as that we have solved one third of the task, because the last part of the task will probably be considerably more difficult than the first part of the task. But we've come a long way. We are in a year and a half where we have made major agreements in the waste sector, in industry and energy, we have made an agreement on two energy islands, a completely new era in offshore winds, we have agreed on a green tax reform, agreement to get 750,000 green cars on the roads, agreement on biodiversity, which of course also has a connection with the climate issue, a green restart package, and then I have not mentioned the first year of finance, which I think Uffe Elbæk called the millennium's most green financial law. So there are good results. Having said that, it is also clear that we are not in the end at all. To that extent, it should not surprise anyone that we are not, as long as when we made the paper of understanding, we did so, knowing that we set ourselves an objective that was more ambitious than we had at the moment instruments to achieve. It was sensible to do that; it has also been shown to the government that it was probably not the easiest way we chose, because if we had said 65 per cent, we would probably still have been the most ambitious country in the world, at least we would have been among them, and it is clear that it would have been easier to see a way forward towards the goal. When we said 70 per cent, it was of course due to the fact that this was what we considered necessary for Denmark to be able to stay within the Paris Agreement; that was what could become a majority in favour, initially with the support parties, but the later, which no one had believed at that time, also widely in the Danish Parliament, and that is of course extremely pleasing. The idea of setting ourselves an objective that is so ambitious that you do not know exactly how to achieve it is a little atypical in politics, and understandably, because we are talking about billions of dollars, we are talking about jobs, we are talking about science, we are talking about all sorts of complicated contexts, and therefore, when you make political objectives of this nature, you usually want to have very detailed plans for how we achieve it. So we've decided to go another way this time. One might say that if we had chosen to go the traditional way, I think we had been criticised for that, because I would at least have been self-critical enough to say that then we were not ambitious enough. If today, after a year and a half, I could present a plan in detail on how we could achieve the 70-percent target, because it was really not so difficult, I would have argued that we should deliver more than 70%. Having said that, we have made a climate law, because it is important that this is legally binding; it is important that there is a procedure for how we reach the goal, so we make sure that this thing about no one knows the whole way at the end, because no one exactly knows what technologies are going to give exactly how much, not just becomes a sleeping pillow. What is then the idea is that we should gradually become more and more concrete. Already with the first climate programme we presented last year, we made a suggestion as to what it is about to cost in dollars and cents a year to make this conversion, what technologies we need to use, and thus to say that when someone criticises the government and, incidentally, the parties of the Folketing, which are behind the agreements, to bet that we can just wait until the technology develops on its own, and that it is all something unknown that we do not yet know, it is not a reasonable criticism. On the contrary, we have chosen well-known technologies, but which are not at this stage where they have a scale and a price and an applicationability so that they can solve the problems in the short run. But we are getting closer and closer to a situation where we know something about exactly how much it will solve in the long run. Already with the government's climate programme last year we dared to quantify the spans, and it has been emphasized that if you were to reach the goal, the sun, moon and stars should stand at completely right angles, and we had to reach the top of all spans to reach the goal. But it is simply a professional misunderstanding. That is incorrect. If you read the report, you will see that there is something else. It says that these buckles added together in well-known bets will at that time be given approx. 70% At this stage, when much more concrete reductions have been adopted, it is well over 70%, and then we are not even counting on the short-term reductions that will come from the negotiations we are engaged in, especially in agriculture, but also CO2 Effects of CO2 It could be regulation from the EU, it could be decisions by the Funen plant to phase out coal, which is also a reduction in Denmark. And, of course, it is clear that a government cannot just sit back and think: they will solve the problem for us in the European Union, or private operators, utilities and others will solve the problem for us. We can't. But, of course, it is irresponsible not to count on the effects that will certainly come. An example: Fit for 55, i.e. the package that the European Commission will be delivering before the summer, which will ensure that the European Union reduces by 55%. In 2030 compared to 1990, it will mean a quite massive extra regulation of the whole of the European Union, and hence also of Denmark, and thus it will also lead to effects in Denmark. It is not expected in the government's programme, but it will, of course, result in reductions. All this is to say, we're on our way. Are we in the finish line? No. Are difficult tasks waiting for us? Yeah. Can we say exactly how we get to the finish line? No. But we are in the process of narrowing it down and we are constantly becoming more concrete. This brings me to the Climate Council's report, which I would first like to welcome. I myself have been involved in making the law that says they have to make this report. I myself also helped to strengthen the Climate Council and was one of those who suggested that it should be made an independent council, so that we could not, contrary to a previous government, dismiss a president if we were dissatisfied with his work. That cannot be done now, and that is why it is, of course, in the spirit that we are receiving the report. By the way, I have noticed how the chairman of the Climate Council himself described the role of the Climate Council: they see themselves not as a judge or a censor, but more as a supervisor. And, of course, it is clear that even those parties that agree with most of the Climate Council's recommendations are far from agreeing with all the Climate Council's recommendations, so it goes without saying. I do not think there is anyone in the Danish parliamentary spectrum who says: everything the Climate Council says, we are just implementing one by one. Of course. But that's good advice, and we listen to them. Most of the advice already presented by the Climate Council in the past year has either been delivered on, or we have justified why we do not think they are a good idea, but for the vast majority it has been the first that was the case: we have delivered on them. Of the five most general concrete recommendations made by the Climate Council in this round, the first advice was to become more concrete, and that is what we intend to do. It lies in the whole mode dictated by the Climate Act, but from which the government also works. We implemented the distinction that the Climate Council has also recommended between an implementation track and a development track; that is, there are things that we can decide here and now and which we have a pretty sure knowledge of what effect will have, and that is the implementation trail, and then there are the decisions that we have to make, by far most or at least very many of them also here and now, so that in the long term they can provide reductions, but where it is therefore a development potential. We don't know exactly how much to find on ccs, exactly how much to find on ptx, exactly how much to find on pyrolysis etc. and so on, but we know that's the way to go, and we know which stretch we can figure out. So the concrete roadmap follows the fixed mode. We will come up with our next, more concrete proposals when we come up with the climate programme in September, and any government will have to do so in the foreseeable future. This does not mean that we have to wait until September to get answers to any of the questions; it does not mean that we have to wait until September for more plans to come, for them to become more concrete. On the contrary, we are already engaged in agricultural negotiations, and this month we are going to be negotiating the next part of the recommendation that comes, namely a ccs strategy. The next one was CO2 We are also engaged in negotiations on the removal of agricultural land. And finally, a higher CO2 so we're actually going to deliver on the concrete recommendations the council gave us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310131453	Thank you to the Minister, also for respecting very tight speaking times. A brief comment is now available to each of the rapporteurs, and a number of points have been made. The first to speak is Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310131506	Thank you to the Minister for taking part, first of all, in today's debate and also for providing a number of concrete answers to what the Minister intends to do in order to implement more climate action. After all, the Minister and the government presented a climate programme back in September, which says on page 15 that the government estimated on the climate programme that the government's efforts demonstrated that the 70-percent target would be achieved by 2030. To this the Climate Council has said that it is their professional judgement that it does not happen. In this light, with all the initiatives that the Minister of Climate Affairs has now mentioned one could imagine would happen, the Minister of Climate Affairs will undertake that this will happen, whether it be low-level soils, CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210310131552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310131553	Let me start by congratulating Signe Munk, because I understand that it is not a round day, but a day to celebrate. So congratulations, and thank you for the good weather and all that. In the climate programme we show that it also follows from the climate programme that if the Danish Parliament disagrees with it, compared with the efforts made during the year, then we have the opportunity to make that opinion known in the debate we are going to take during Christmas in Parliament, and that was not the case. It is certainly not a majority in the Folketing. Having said that, however, we agree with the Climate Council that we need to become more concrete. So, yes, I can guarantee we'll stay. There are some challenges, including the fact that we have been a bit apart methodically in the way the Climate Council has gone to things and the ministry has gone to things. I can say that we are doing everything we can to ensure that the methodological discussions at least disappear, so that we have a consensus on what we are discussing at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310131700	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310131702	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. Now the Minister started by mentioning all the initiatives that have been taken during the year, and these are the ones that the Climate Council has responded to, and they have come to the conclusion that they do not show that the targets can be achieved. And you can of course think a lot about whether the Climate Council and recommendations to... [Sound emission]... or not, but what is beyond doubt is that the Climate Council must assess the efforts being made and whether it shows that we are heading towards the 70-percent reduction by 2030, and we are not, according to the Climate Council. And it is our independent experts that we must listen to. What the Climate Council also points out is that there are too many initiatives in the development path and that there is a need to press on more with regard to the implementation trail, i.e. see some concrete initiatives. And one of the strongest tools we have for it is precisely a binding milestone for 2025, and there the Climate Council has set out where it should lie if it is to be within the scope of achieving the reduction targets. So is the government willing to set a 2025 sub-target that is within what the Climate Council recommends?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310131812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310131813	It is a little important to stress that the Climate Council is actually saying that significant steps have been taken in the right direction and that the questioner's own party, together with the other supporting parties in the financial agreement that was made, wrote that decisive steps have been taken. So I do not recognize the picture of nothing happening, nor did the questioner's own party a few months ago. Having said that, however, it is clear that we need more policy from the development track into the implementation trail, and we will deliver on that. And one of the first areas where this is going to happen is in that sector and that type of instrument, where there may be the greatest potential, namely ccs, i.e. CO2 There we are already going to talk to each other this month in the Folketing about what such a strategy should contain. We have already set a fairly substantial amount: 16 billion. kr., by • it's a lot of money and the Climate Council says so: Hey, it's not enough to drop the money off; you also have to tell exactly what it's going to be used for. That's a good point, and we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310131917	The next brief remark is to Mr. Tommy Ahlers, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310131920	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for a very fine speech and a good way to approach the Climate Council report. I would like to ask the Minister what the Minister is mentioning here about these international commitments which are coming and which will also help development and which have not yet been discussed. The way we usually see it, compared to much of what we do in Denmark, is that we are in Denmark as a pioneer country when there is an international demand, for example. from the EU, so is already well on the way to fulfilling it, because we are further ahead in Denmark. So what I heard the Minister say is that you also expect something from the European Union to be added to what we are already doing in Denmark. Can the Minister elaborate a little more on what that would be for some things and in what areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132005	It is true that it will quite often be the case that if we raise the objectives at European level, it will not do so much about our own objectives because they are already higher. That is, for example, the case. the case of the 55-percent objective. However, having said that, it is clear that much of the regulation that is to be expected will have to be implemented directly in Denmark. It could, for example, be done. be increased emission standards for cars, and this could be an extension of the EU's quota trading system. These will, of course, be instruments that will help us to achieve the objectives, despite the fact that they are not some that we ourselves adopted in Denmark, but some that we have helped to adopt in Brussels.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132046	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132047	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Minister for a fine speech. There are five recommendations that the Climate Council attaches particular importance to in their report. One of them is about the price of greenhouse gas emissions in socio-economic calculations, and the Climate Council recommends that they be set at a level consistent with the 70-percent target. So the price must reflect the cost of the most expensive reductions needed to reach the target. Right now you're using a shadow price called 300 kroner. per Ton, over in the Treasury, when you count. The Climate Council finds this number far too low. For me, it seems like a very low-hanging fruit and something that the government can do directly with the immediate effect of putting a fair price on CO2 Will the government do so in the light of the Climate Council's report?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132134	Thank you. This is a very good question, because it is quite right, of course, that when it comes to deciding which measures are also economically viable and which measures are in danger of causing leakage effects or not, the price of pollution is of course very important. Therefore, we have also begun to count on significantly higher prices in the government for CO2 Some of you may see that the Minister of Transport was out to say that now we are doing this for the first time in great style in connection with the mobility plan that is to be presented later this year. Unlike the previous government, which did not even count on CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132223	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132225	Thank you. Thank you for a positive speech. I am very pleased about that. There is no doubt that the Climate Council has a major criticism of the government's climate policy right now. What we all miss most, I think, is the overall plan here, the roadmap, I think it is called in the report, for all areas where reductions need to be found. What exactly is the argument that this plan has not been made from the outset?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132253	I guess there's more to it than that. One is purely, practically politically, that we have been delayed with some of the negotiations. In the spring we were delayed a few months with them on waste, on industry and energy, which fortunately we managed to catch up before the summer break. We have had important decisions made on energy islands in the North Sea and others. But we should have finished agriculture last year. We had to postpone this because of the corona crisis, so it is clear that it means that there is a gap there in the overall plan. There is a slightly more general level, namely: how concrete can one really be? And there is the idea, then, that we must increasingly become more and more concrete. The Climate Council has actually made a very good way of setting it up where they operate with different abstraction levels. Well, there's something called potential, then there's something called analysis, then there's something called play, and then there's something called decision-making. And that's where we have to keep moving left in that coordinate system. That is what they recommend, and that is what we are going to do, i.e. in the first place with ccs, but later also with ptx and pyrolysis and the other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132401	The next brief remark is from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132403	Thank you, and also from here, thank you for your speech. One of the things that the Climate Council attaches importance to is that we should be much more ambitious on CO2 and on the same day as this report came out, the government happened to set up a committee to look at it. If we now imagine that the committee is working as it should, and within the deadlines that are one year's time, as I understand it, and then we have to negotiate, and then legislation has to be made, and then through the Folketing, when is there an opportunity for us to have really uniform CO2 2?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132449-2	Well, let's just keep in mind that we have a CO2 so it's not like we're not doing it. What is the agreement now is not just within the government, but with a broad majority of Parliament's parties, that now we ask a group of experts to look at this and make their first recommendations for Christmas, and then they will have to be discussed with the parties of the Folketing. I think that yesterday's report by the Economic Council showed some of the dilemmas. Yes, it is very cost-effective, but, on the other hand, I think that there are probably many, at least on one side of the House, who do not quite think that we should follow the advice to drop all subsidies for green conversion. It may well be that it would be most cost-effective, but it will probably not make Denmark a pioneer, just as it may also give rise to a great deal of concern, at least on one side of the House, that the Council believes that it will cost 19 000 years' work in the agricultural and food sector. By the way, I share that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132554	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate, which is to say to the general rules for short remarks. And just one service information: I will stand up when exactly 1 or 2 seconds remain of speaking time. And that means when I get up, you round off. At least that's the call. That's why I'm getting up. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners and the birthday child, I understand, congratulations to Mrs Signe Munk, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310132630	Thank you very much for your congratulations, both to the President and to the Minister. You may not know, but I love birthdays, and I love cake and I love congratulations, so thank you so much. There is one thing I want more than anything else today, and that is more climate action, and I hope that together we can ensure it. It will not only be a gift to me, but also to my entire generation. We have to reach our 70 percent climate target. in 2030. It is not open for discussion, which is why the Danish Parliament must use the big climate hammer in the toolbox today and commit the government to make more climate measures. Unfortunately, this is necessary after the Climate Council wrote in their progress report here, and I quote: It is the Climate Council's assessment that the government's overall climate action does not show that the 70-percent targets of the Climate Act are being achieved by 2030. New efforts are therefore needed. That is clear speech, and it is precisely this sentence that our debate is about to start with today. The conclusion is not surprising to me, but it is now in black and white, and it must make some green warning lights blink with the climate minister, but indeed throughout the Socialist Government. Climate measures have been made; many agreements have been made. And even if we have been busy, more needs to be done, even if agreements have been made for energy, industry, waste, cars and the first step in green tax reform, and even if we have set an end date for oil and gas production in the North Sea. From all normal standards it is certainly impressive, but we are in a climate crisis: the forests are burning around the world, the ice is melting, and the ecosystems of the planet are under intense pressure. In this light, there is only one response to the government's climate plan: more action is needed. Therefore the SF will impose obligations on the government. It is Parliament's climate hammer that we can use if there is no clear, secure path to the climate target. And if it is not a question of whether we are going to go ahead, at least not for the SF, and I have not heard from the government, then that is all that needs to be done. And we in this Chamber have undertaken the most important task for my generation: to reduce climate change. That responsibility requires that we do not push the task ahead of us, but act now. So what's it gonna take? The answer is, in fact, longer than I have enough speaking time here in the Chair. Nevertheless, I would like to mention some important steps. After all, we can appropriately start with ambitious climate action in agriculture and a 2025 sub-target of at least 50%. In particular, I would ask the government to remove the gloves when it comes to agriculture. For although there is no doubt that the conversion of agriculture must be supported by society in the form of aid for development and research, agriculture must also deliver its share. They must also contribute financially. And higher climate requirements for agriculture can actually be used to develop agriculture, not to dismantle it. Think if we in Denmark could be a leader in plant-based food production. It would be a guarantee of the future of Danish agriculture. There are plenty of things we need to get started and make clear plans for when it comes to the new technology; when it comes to e.g. CO 2 First of all, I said that what I want most is climate action and maybe a little cake here on my birthday. And that is why I am grateful that a broad majority in the Folketing has declared itself ready to impose a duty of action on the government in the area of climate change. I would say that I am not only happy because that is what I would like to have myself, but because it is important for my generation and for the next generation. With those words, I will now read out a text for adoption on behalf of the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left, the Alternative, the Danish People's Party, the Free Greens and the Social Democratic Party: Proposals for adoption • Seen in the light of the assessment in the Danish Climate Council's 2021 status report, the government is required to demonstrate as soon as possible how it will achieve the goals of the Climate Act, as well as to present plans for how to get the technologies in the development trail ready by 2030. At the same time, prior to the next climate programme, the government is required to initiate new reduction measures. V 83).
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133148	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And the proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. There are now a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and first of all, it is Mr Beazley's report. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133158	Thank you to the rapporteur and a huge congratulations to him. After all, the rapporteur is in the lucky position that the rapporteur has the crucial mandates and can therefore get his wish fulfilled if you just put the bullshit on it. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the SF wants to meet the 1.5-degree target.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133220	SF does.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133225	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133228	I thought the rapporteur would answer that too. And if we are to meet that goal, we should have delivered immediate reductions already in 2018; that is the demand of the United Nations. Does the rapporteur think that the government meets those requirements and, if not, why is the SF holding hands under the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133252	What is at the heart of the SF is constantly promoting climate policy, not changing the government. We are following the advice we receive from the Climate Council, and that is precisely why we have today; that is precisely why we have imposed a duty on the government to act; that is because the Climate Council clearly says that we must achieve our 70-percent target, which is, of course, our responsibility in the Paris Agreement, we need more and clear climate action on the table, and there, of course, I am glad that Sikandar Siddique and the Free Greens also support that proposal for adoption and action.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133323	The next brief remark is from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133326	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. Now SF's rapporteur said that SF was not surprised that such strong criticism came from the Climate Council. Some of the things that the Climate Council criticises most are the car agreement and the tax agreement. Did SF know well when the SF agreed to the two agreements that it would meet such incredibly strong criticism and that it would prevent us from reaching our 70-percent target?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133354	The reason I say that I am not surprised by the criticism is that I already said in December that the SF sees the need for further climate action. What the Climate Council recommends in their report are more things. They have a number of main recommendations, including: We have proposed this, we would like to do so. They also propose to make socio-economic calculations based on a CO2 per year. tonnes of CO2 we would like to see in SF as well. You are proposing a ccs strategy which must be concrete. We'd like to do that in the SF, too. So the recommendations made by the Climate Council can easily be seen in ourselves, and we have even proposed an ambitious plan to take out low-level soils in agriculture by 2025. It has been put forward before New Year's, and it is also a main recommendation from the Climate Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133452	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133452-2	On SF's website it says "Climate Action Now." I couldn't get an answer from the Minister for Climate on when there might be uniform CO2 It looks like we need to talk really, very much first. In the alternative, we will be presenting climate taxes on meat, on aircraft and on fuel within a few months. It's gonna be the whole social compensation thing. It is, of course, for us to get started, and then we can phase it into the overall plan afterwards. Is the SF ready for climate action now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133525-2	Every day, when I go to work, I hunt climate action. This is also why the SF, together with the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, have called for this urgent request. In the past, SF has also proposed an aircraft tax which can be implemented as a passenger tax. So we have also made these proposals in the past. We have also said that we would like to appreciate a uniform CO2 but Mr. Torsten Gejl knows that things only come true when there are 90 mandates behind it, and that is not really the case right now to report a uniform CO2 which is why it has not happened, regardless of the fact that SF would wish it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133603	The next brief remark is from Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133606	Thank you. And once again great happy birthday to Mrs Signe Munk. What a day to have a birthday today, when Denmark together with the Netherlands and an alliance of other EU countries also require the EU to phase out diesel and petrol cars. I know that too is a matter of great concern to the rapporteur. So congratulations, too. That's not what I wanted to ask. What I wanted to ask a little is that yesterday the Presidency of the Environmental Economic Council issued its recommendations for the Danish climate policy, and the conclusion is that the agreements we have made over the last year and a half have increased the socio-economic costs of achieving the 70-percent target. I would like to ask whether SF agrees with the Social Democratic Party that the agreements we have made, where we among other things. has provided subsidies for the replacement of oil and gas pine, are essential tools for achieving our 70-percent goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133657	Thank you for another congratulations. These are good measures we have already done now, but SF has also said that more needs to be done, for example. in relation to retiring the natural gas guys. That is why I would very much like the next project that the government is taking up in the European Union to be a ban on new natural gas pine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133715	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133716	Thank you for that answer. Then I'd like to ask you a few questions about something else. Following on from the excellent speech made by the rapporteur, there was an obligation to act and, as the rapporteur was also told, there is no majority outside the government for action; there is a majority with the government for action. That is why I would perhaps like to ask in the last part of my question: what exactly does the rapporteur want to force the government to which the government is not already in the process, and how does the rapporteur envisage making different majorities in order to force the government to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133754	There are two options for imposing obligations to act in the Climate Act. It is that the climate minister either does it himself when the climate minister presented a climate programme in September, it was explicitly black and white that the government thought it was illustrated that the 70-percent objective should be achieved. Otherwise, it had to be for SF to see with the report that the Climate Council has now produced a majority of the parliament that imposed the government's duty to act, and that is exactly what we are doing today with a text of adoption, which I am extremely pleased that the Social Democratic Party has also joined.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133824	The next brief remark is from Mr. Tommy Ahlers, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133826	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for the initiative and congratulations on his birthday to the rapporteur. I would like to ask something, because we have had a lot of discussion about this CO2 and there we are not entirely in agreement, because the rapporteur's party is of the opinion that it should already be DKK 1 500, where we think we should wait for this group of experts to actually make us wiser, because it might have had some completely unintended consequences. What is it, as the rapporteur knows, that makes the rapporteur quite comfortable by setting the level right now and not waiting for the expert group?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133908	We have said that if the SF were to make a bid, it was actually 1,000 kroner. in 2028, and then you could turn it up. We have not specifically said that it should be $1,500. But it is, of course, in relation to the understanding that the business community also wants us to report a level in relation to the level of uniform CO2 so it is based on the logic that SF would like to send a clear signal. Now we are also waiting for the well-prepared proposal, which will come from the expert group, and that will, of course, be serious, even in relation to where we are ultimately fully determined.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133949	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310133950	But can the rapporteur not get a little nervous when you read the report from the Environmental Economic Council to which the Social Democrat rapporteur also referred, that is to say the report that came yesterday, which points out that if you simply blindly implement the DKK 1 200? 2 So, one cannot be afraid that if one does not wait for the expert group, we will have some unintended consequences that we cannot live with at all, and where we are going to go back and say that the level should not quite be there anyway, but that it should be there, and then we are going to harm Danish business rather than wait?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134031	I think it is absolutely central to the Danish business community that a clear and clear signal is sent from a broad majority in the Danish Parliament that there will be a high uniform CO2 CO2 The report that the Environmental Economic Council presented yesterday is for SF to see no running model. For they are working with a either-or; either it is a full tax tool, or it is a full support tool. From the start of this discussion, the SF has said that we saw a uniform CO2 and we were actually out to say that in Berlingske, I think, which must be a newspaper that the rapporteur is reading, in relation to where we started this discussion. But that is an important contribution that the economic wise men have made to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134115	The next brief remark is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134118	I just heard the rapporteur say that the EU should ban natural gas plants. And I just want to hear what Mrs Signe Munk has thought about the principle of subsidiarity. So why is it that the Member States themselves cannot decide this, except that some countries may decide something other than the Socialist People's Party, democratically speaking? So why is it the European Union that has to decide whether to be able to set up new natural gas fires or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134149	It may be that I have expressed myself wrongly, so just to clarify it to the rapporteur: what I asked the Socialist Government to do was to create an opportunity for Denmark to take that decision. When the SF has put forward this proposal that a stop should be made in Denmark for the installation of new natural gas pine, we have been told by skilled officials in both the Ministry of Climate and elsewhere that there is EU legislation that stands in the way of a country having that option, just like a ban on new sales of diesel and petrol cars, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134217	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134222	Thank you. Now it was actually mostly the debate that took place here just before between the Socialist rapporteur and the birth year I do not know whether it is permissible to call the rapporteur the birth year, but I allow myself to do so now; it is accepted! 2 Does it not give some cause for concern when one can hear that there are such opposing views about what the CO2 rapporteur, because it is absolutely crucial, also in relation to the industry, that a level is reported very early on with a flat CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134315	The Enhedslisten's rapporteur is quite right to say that, at the bottom of this discussion on the uniform CO2 level, what I really think we all agree on in here and now I do not know if we can assume what the Left would think is that a uniform CO2 in this way, like some reductions, the market can also do. However, what the rapporteur can hear is that there is no agreement on the level, and it can be said that 90 mandates are needed in order to adopt the level, and it is then the SF's ambition, the SF's hope, that we can reach an agreement on this, if only if the group of experts can make their assessment this autumn of the green tax reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134404	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134406	Now I think the problem with this has been that there was the possibility of creating a majority for a flat carbon dioxide. Does the rapporteur not think that it would have been better to ensure that we had just sent out the clear signal of a flat carbon dioxide? 2
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134446	The rapporteur's first speech was right: there is no consensus. There are no 90 mandates behind a level of uniform CO2 because it has just been illustrated that it was not there. That is why it is a mistake for the discussion. So what I can say is that SF is ready to put a high uniform CO2 fortunately, we have written in the green tax reform that it should be a main engine, as I think it has been called, and that it should contribute significantly to the 70-percent objective. In addition, there are, of course, tax increases in the green tax reform already now. There is an increase in the energy tax on fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134527	Thank you very much to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Unfortunately, there is no birthday cake up here either, but I am sure that the rapporteur will have it later. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur. Welcome to sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134600	Thank you. When I was asked in P1 Debate a few weeks ago to give character to the government's climate policy, I gave 12. This caused a mixture of amazement and, in fact, a bit of shock from some of the participants. And taking into account the media image's consensus that the government's climate policy has failed, it may not be so strange. However, it was a quiet attempt to nuance the Climate Council's report rather than an attempt to close its eyes to the Climate Council's conclusions. I am pleased that the Climate Council recognises the important steps taken by the government and a broad majority in the Folketing. I also fully agree that more needs to be done. However, I may find it difficult to understand the need to ignore the efforts already made. Of the reduction potential of 10.9 million. t, identified by the Climate Council itself in its March 2020 implementation trail, we have made agreements in the track that reduce emissions by over 7 million by 2030. a. It is hard to disagree that these are important steps. In addition, we are still engaged in negotiations on agriculture and are still in the process of implementing the agreements we have already concluded. This does not mean that we are in the finish line, but we have come a good deal closer. A large part of the remaining emissions, which we lack in the reduction manko, are in the Climate Council's identified development tracks. We have set ourselves goals to which neither Parliament nor the Climate Council know the precise path. We need to scale and develop a technology, for example. CO2 and storage. It is technology that the Climate Council itself points out is necessary, but which is also judged to be too uncertain to count against 2030, but safe enough to count against 2025. It may surprise me a bit, at least. However, we agree that this is a crucial technology, and with the climate agreement for energy and industry from June 2020 we have agreed to allocate just under 4 billion. kr. to support the development of the capture and storage of CO2 In addition, work comes with a concrete strategy on how to spread the technology, which is also in progress. It is clear that we need to take the report of the Climate Council seriously, and when the Council is asking for concrete plans on how to turn reduction potentials into concrete instruments, that is to say, reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions, indeed, it is on this that our work must be corrected. That is why I also welcome the fact that the five initiatives identified by the Climate Council are, after all, efforts that we have already set in motion. But let me come back to where I started, namely by talking about a climate effort for a 12-figure. Because in the 12th century is not necessarily the perfect performance. There is room for improvement, and I think we are also a majority who agree that there is; for we can only be fully satisfied when we are fully in the finish line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134919	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310134926	Thank you for your speech to the Socialist rapporteur. In the past, the Social Democratic Party has come up with a proposal that there should be such meetings where we sat and became wiser in agriculture as a better solution than the government itself presented an agricultural proposal. But I could now hear from the Minister for Climate Affairs that we are ready to put forward more concrete policies. So I just need to hear quite specifically: when the Social Democrats and the climate minister admit that more concrete action is needed, why has this proposal not been put forward in the field of agriculture? Because I guess we agree that CO2 has to be produced.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135016	We fully agree that agriculture should contribute to the reductions, and I also think that some of the issues that the questioner himself had before, in relation to where agriculture can reduce, expressed some good reflections and some good discussions. A number of technical reviews have been under way. I think the number rounds I can also see that there are big eyes around 27, if I'm not mistaken. I have also had the pleasure of participating in part of them myself. And that's because it's not easy. In other words, we really want to contribute to agriculture, of course, but we also need to make decisions on a proper basis, and there has been a need to look at some technology that we do not yet know. And then there is something that may well be a little challenging to explain to me at least because much of it is also academic discussions. I also know that the author's party, among other things. has suggested how much low bottom you can take out. There is another discussion going on, among other things. in connection with the calculations that I have seen. So we are working to present a concrete agricultural proposal as soon as possible. It is not because we necessarily want it to wait, but it has been postponed, among other things. because of the technical reviews that are now, but also because there was a corona crisis and because there was a mink scandal that had to be dealt with, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135127	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135128	What surprises me is that we all know that the Social Democrats have had an agricultural issue in the drawer. So it is not as the rapporteur says because you have not known what was going to happen; it is because you have not wanted to show us what was going to happen. If the Social Democratic Party now knows that there is a need for a fairly massive extra effort in agriculture, as it is foolish to ask again, I will send out a hope that the Social Democracy will be very concrete in terms of what efforts they intend to make in agriculture. For this, the Social Democrat supposedly should have known well under a former Minister for Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135204	Well, we're gonna get that and thank the questioner for that. In other words, I thought that the questioner was also in favour of having some processes in which the questioner's party was also heard. I know that there are other parties who have talked about this in the past. We have a little more habit of having study circles, but at least one might want to speak up and that we became wiser together. But thank you for the advice; I will make sure that I get on with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135231	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the next questioner, I would just like to provide a service: there is an enormous amount of questioning, speaking time is being spent in full, and therefore I can be concerned that we will simply get to the Minister again if everyone wants to ask questions and use all the speaking time. It's just a service information. Speaking time is 1 minute and then 1⁄2 minute, and that's it. The next one is sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135251	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I am glad that I can now hear that one may refer to the Climate Council report as one for which one can get 12, whereas it is not so appropriate if one refers to it as one for which one fails. So there is evidently a distinction there, at least in the socialist way of thinking. But what I really want to ask the rapporteur is this: since it is so clear, even after the Climate Council's report, that initiatives need to be moved from the development trail to the implementation trail, in line with what I asked the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply about earlier events, is it also the view of the Social Democrats that we should set a 2025 milestone which is within the recommendations of the Climate Council? For that is what helps to ensure that we get some concrete initiatives started now, which is what is good for the climate, but also for the economy, both in relation to what the Climate Council says, but also in relation to what the Environmental Economic Council says. So are the Socialists prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135353	I would just like to say, and perhaps I did not say so in my speech, that the reason why I used a character was that I was forced to say a character so that we could move forward in the debate. So it wasn't with my free will. I would have liked to say that the Climate Council does not give grades, as I also think I have tried to say in many other areas. After all, the social democracy has already presented our proposal for a 2025 target, which is a proposal of between 46 and 50%. I agree that the author's party has wanted a higher target, and that is what we have already started some good discussions on, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135429	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135430	Well, it might well be that the fact that the Climate Council's report or assessment had now arrived had led to a review of that view. For the Climate Council's criticism is crystal clear, given that this is about the fact that it is not ambitious enough and that there are simply too many things that lie in the future, and there can be some of the things that force that development through. So it was just a question of whether it might have led the Socialists to reconsider the view that it should be in the range 46-50 per cent and that instead it was accepted to be within the recommendations of the Climate Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135509	But we also know, and the Climate Council itself says so, that if you like. proposed that a reduction target of 64 per cent should be achieved, this would mean leakage. This would mean that companies would close down their production and move it abroad, and that would mean that a great many people would lose their jobs. One of the things we also promised each other when we made the agreement on the Climate Act was that it should be socially fair, that we should make sure that people did not lose their jobs, that it did not increase inequality and that jobs did not move abroad, and that is, of course, the consideration we take. After all, we are listening to what the Climate Council writes in their report, but I would also say that the Climate Council also writes in the report that if you propose 64 per cent, it will lead to leakage and reduction in production.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135554	Thank you. Five have still asked for brief comments on this rapporteur, and that has happened. But I think that, for reasons of time, we are going to say that the next rapporteur only has room for two to make brief comments. Otherwise we simply will not make it through the rapporteur's line. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135612	Thank you, but it may be that we can achieve this in one round, because I am a little curious whether we are living up to the fantastic climate law that we have made, where we have made a year's wheel, and now the Climate Council has come up with their assessment of whether the government's climate action demonstrates that the goals of the Climate Act are being achieved. But no matter how you read the report that came from the Climate Council, I do not think it is possible to say that they think it is done that there is an explanation of it. Then it also says that the Minister will have to present new short- and long-term initiatives which will lead the way towards achieving the objectives of the Climate Act, and that is, of course, before next year's wheels start on the next climate programme. So does the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group's rapporteur agree that the Minister must get into work very quickly and present short-term and long-term concrete actions and not various technical reviews?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135659	I can promise the questioner that the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group will always ensure that the climate minister is in his work clothes and that he will work hard with the confidence he has gained. However, I would also like to say that one of the reasons given by the Climate Council for the fact that the road is not obvious, among other things. is that the lowest risk assessment will only get us 65%. This is the result of the climate programme of September. After all, the Minister for Climate has also said that I am sure that the Minister himself will have the opportunity to elaborate on it later that one hopes to present a strategy for ccs before the summer holidays. So there will be concrete proposals before the summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135744	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135746	We didn't make it in one round. We take it again, and when I tried to say the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group, it was actually an outstretched hand for the rapporteur. Because what the rapporteur is doing now is talking about long-term actions, and it is clear in the Climate Act that it was very important that we get it into the short term and in the long term. So in the short term, it is not a ccs strategy, but it is concrete actions now and here. So does the rapporteur agree that before the next year's wheel starts, the Minister must also present concrete actions in the short term?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135819-2	I do not know what the questioner thinks of concrete actions, and that is why it would certainly have been easier for me if the questioner himself had proposed what specific actions he was thinking of. Well, we have already picked what I think is called the low-hanging fruits, and I agree that some people have criticized us for that. But I find it difficult to criticize someone for that, because I think it is only common sense, and then there are some things that take time. But there is also an implementation time of most things, for example. We are also proposing something that is not part of the Climate Council's programme, for example. Energy islands. It also takes time just to build the islands and get the machines out there etc. So there's an implementation time of everything. But the climate minister has already said that he will become more concrete on the recommendations that come from the Climate Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135904	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135906	I do not know whether I should think it provocative or it is comical when the rapporteur stands and gives the government 12 on the basis of a report by the Climate Council which, in many ways, dumps the government. Well, it's almost gonna be a little theatrical. With regard to the question which the Minister will not answer, if the rapporteur is so skilful, can the rapporteur answer me: when is it possible that uniform CO2 will be added? Is it after the committee has finished reporting after we have negotiated? When is it that we get really uniform CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310135950	Again, I would have liked the alternative rapporteur to have been included in the programme. I know that the leader of the alternative party was included in the programme and was also forced to give us character, and I can tell you without thinking that it comes as a great surprise that I did not give the same character as the person of the alternative. However, I am pleased that the rapporteur has high expectations that I am very smart, but I am not smarter than saying that we have now set up a group of experts to make recommendations. And that is the agreement and the work we are waiting for now, and that is what I am waiting for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140027	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140028	It may well be that in that programme the rapporteur was forced to put on a character, but the rapporteur has not been forced to do so four times in this Chamber. So it is like the rapporteur's free will. What I'm asking is that the thing that gets the most criticism of the Climate Council is that we haven't created a clear and uniform CO2 with regard to the most important thing to regulate this, I'm just wondering: when is it going to happen? The government really doesn't know anything about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140058	After all, we have set up a group of experts to make recommendations at the end of 2021. So there we know that there are some recommendations from the expert group. But then I have to say that the agreement adopted by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is precisely that it should be socially fair, that people should not lose their jobs, that companies should not move out of the country and that inequality in Denmark should not increase. If you look at yesterday's report from the Environmental Economic Council, you can see that it says that you risk losing 19 000 jobs in agriculture if you do this, and that is why it is of course not something you do overnight. We need to get proper recommendations from the expert group, and these are the ones we are waiting for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140138	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140140	Thank you to the rapporteur. It's not that I want to drive around in that 12, but I also had a question about it. It's a high grade. Can the rapporteur mention some concrete immediate reductions without historical precedent, which the Socialist Government has ensured?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140203-2	Unfortunately, I have to admit that I am not quite sure that I understand the question. It's not that I don't want to answer it or because I want to talk about the 12s again. I'm sorry, but maybe the questioner could be a little more specific?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140220	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140221	That is a great pity, because now I have to use my second question on the first question. Here we go again. Can the rapporteur give an example or examples of concrete immediate reductions without historical precedent, which the government has ensured as the UN demands? I do not think the rapporteur can give that, if I may help a little on the way. And then my second question was: if the rapporteur cannot give it and we do not deliver concrete action right now, how do the rapporteur and the government feel about meeting the Paris target?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140300	I did not know that this would be such a technical question, in which I regret that I do not have a concrete answer to it. I am still not quite sure that I fully understand where the questioner is going, I have to say. But I can just say that we have agreed not only in the government or in the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group, but by a broad majority, reductions that will get us a third of the way now. And that is what we are doing now when we are working towards achieving the final reductions. Fortunately, then, there is a business sector which also helps with reductions for which we cannot take credit, but which also helps us on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140337	The next brief remark is to Mr. Tommy Ahlers, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140339	I was, of course, in the debate with the rapporteur, where the rapporteur gave it twelve figures, so that hearing the debate again here is a bit funny. In fact, I am also thinking that I would like to give some high marks: I do not know whether it would be 12 to elements of the government's led climate policy, because I actually share the rapporteur's view that we have done very well, i.e. energy islands agreement; that is 12+, I would actually say. But it's a little late, so maybe it's down to 12. Then we have the North Sea Agreement, which required a lot of courage from the government. So it also gives a high grade. But what the Climate Council says is about the overall assessment. They don't think that, when you add all things together, it's illustrated how we get to 70 percent. And there I could not quite hear from the rapporteur's speech whether the rapporteur agrees with the Climate Council on that criticism. In other words, even if there are really good elements, do you understand the criticism that, overall, it does not give that picture and that something must be done now? And thank you to the rapporteur's party for also supporting the adoption text here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140441	As in the debate we had on the radio, I am glad that the questioner continues to highlight this with the 12+ that the questioner, when he was a minister, could not get through with. But I am glad to see that it can be used in various debates in different places. Let me remember what the questioner asked. Can the questioner say that again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140507	It's gonna be in the second round. It's gonna be sorry, but that's the way it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140511	My question is: although the government's climate policy contains elements that we can agree on is really good, can the questioner not see when we put it all together that this does not go up, and can he therefore also follow the Climate Council's criticism and input to the government here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140526	I'm sorry I didn't quite bring my memory with me today. I still think you can hide behind being new in here maybe. Well, I do not agree that we have not shown the way. I fully agree with the criticism that we need to become more concrete in relation to the tools and tools we need to get there. At the same time, however, I must say that the Climate Council also says in its report that we have taken significant steps towards achieving the 70% target, but I do not agree that we have not shown that we can get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140555	The last brief comment is to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140557	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for the rapporteur's positiveness. That's nice, but it's perhaps also a lesson that you shouldn't give yourself character, especially when the censor has already dumped you. You just have to leave that alone. I would very much like to hear whether the rapporteur can say with his hand in his heart that he has not missed a plan for each area, so that we do not, as now, have to stand without knowing what every sector really has to contribute, because I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140631	I am certainly glad that the questioner has never been my censor, because I think that could have been a tough one. Well, we will be presenting concrete action plans on a regular basis when they are ready. Perhaps we could all have wished that we had had some of them before, but on among other things. The agricultural sector has different circumstances in which we have only now been able to give concrete shape to the negotiations on reductions. One might of course have wanted it to have been something earlier, but I think that we, the government and the Folketing and those who are involved in making the agreements can be very happy and proud of the agreements we have made. That is why I think there is good reason to be a little positive about this too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140706	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140707	I think there is, too. There are many good elements in it. What we could do now, when we are at the back of, or at least a long time after, we have agreed on the Climate Act, and now we are barely engaged in the agricultural negotiations, was to take some elements out and say, as the Climate Council recommends, for example. on low-level soils: Let's get to work on them. Why haven't we been able to do that? Why have we been waiting for such an element? Why does it have to be an overall plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140735	Specifically, we have not been waiting for this on low-level soils. There, of course, we have not only in one Finance Act, but in fact in two Finance Laws, which the author's party is not included in, allocated concrete money to it. However, the fact that money has been set aside in concrete terms does not mean that it just happens. That's not how the world of reality works. Now the questioner is among those who often say that she comes from the real world. It has to be said that, for example, The low-level thing takes time. You have to make deals with the pilots, you have to make sure that you don't flood the neighbor's fields, etc., so things take time. However, with regard to low-level soils, we have already taken major and significant steps, and we will also be doing more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140814	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur. I am sorry that most of the brief remarks were made by the rapporteur. From now on, for the sake of time, because we must also reach the Minister, there will only be room for two brief remarks per person. rapporteur and, if possible, much less speaking time than the four minutes in the rapporteur's speech, but it can be difficult to reduce it if you have prepared yourself. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Left, and he is the rapporteur. Tommy Ahlers. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310140844	Thank you. All the gold grain the Danish Parliament is missing now! Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In fact, I wish we were not standing here, but that the Climate Council had said that what we have been complaining about over the past year was merely a political scam, that the government was right when it said in September itself that the road towards the 70-percent reduction in 2030 is illustrated. In fact, I had just hoped that the government might know a little better, had access to more information that gives them peace of mind, for who would not do everything possible to comply with the climate legislation? Unfortunately, however, the Climate Council has been quite clear: the government has not shown the way to achieving the 70-percent target by 2030. We need to get back on that trail, and the government has to get us back on that trail. There are three reasons why this is important. The first is, of course, that it is for the sake of the climate, because it is for the sake of the climate that we have set a 70-percent target. The second is that this is something we have agreed, that is something we have promised the people, that we would reduce by 70%. Until 2030, and that is something we have promised each other. The last is that if we do not stick to a very ambitious climate policy, which is constantly looking forward to a 70-percent reduction by 2030, there are some possible business adventures that we simply miss out on out there, because the rest of the world is also in the process of the green transition, and then it is just the companies from Germany, France, China, the United States that are running with the big green business adventure instead of Danish companies. After all, the Climate Council points to a number of issues that are problematic with the climate policy pursued by the government. The first, as we have also said before, is that the big plan is missing. We have requested the plan several times, and virtually all parties around the government asked about it when we were in the first meeting of the Ministry of Finance for the debate on energy and industry last June. There was a majority in the Folketing in favour of this when we adopted the V 86 in connection with the energy policy statement. The second thing the Climate Council says is that we could have done more in some of the places where we have been. It was a great disappointment that we did not go any further with the tax reform, because in June we actually instructed the government to come up with some models for a uniform CO2 we would have liked to see more on biogas in the Energy and Industry Agreement at the time of June last year. They also say that it is too uncertain, and although I love and share the fascination that the Minister has, and others also have in here, about power-to-x and carbon capture, it is difficult to see how we realise that potential if there is not a clear roadmap towards it, and that is what the Climate Council is criticising here. I know, and I think the Minister is actually good too, but he is not so good as to be able to bend time and space, but it sounds a little like he is trying to do it, and I would therefore like to quote it. The minister says: in a year and a half we have solved about a third of the task we have 10 years to solve. This is a major step in the right direction. We are far from achieving this and there are major tasks ahead, but we are well on our way. Here it seems that the Minister is bending time and space a little, because the Minister is mixing two phases together. He's mixing up the policy phase and the power phase. It is true that in the policy phase we have reached a third of the way, but we do not have ten years for the policy phase. We have not put a deadline on it, but we may have only three or four more years, whereas the power phase we have ten more years, but the power phase we have not reached a third of the way, because there are not 715,000 cars on the roads right now, and all the oil guys we need to replace with heat pumps have not yet been replaced, and we are still burning too much waste that could have been recycled. That is why I hope that the government will take up the report and listen. However, I am still optimistic, because listening to the business community, listening to the researchers, there is a will out there, and therefore this debate is about how we ensure that we create the political framework to ensure that the potential and the will of the business community that is in the population to make this happen will be realised. And then I also hope that we remember the calls we get every once in a while yesterday it was the Environmental Economic Council that said that if we do not do this wisely, it could have fatal consequences for some sectors and that we listen to them, because we are not going to get into a situation where we are just sending a lot of jobs out of Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141250	Thank you to the rapporteur. It was just in the second. The first rapporteur for a brief remark is Mr Seligman. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141255	Thank you. I would like to give the rapporteur 12+ for the speech. I thought it was really nice. On Monday, the Minister for Transport revealed that in the future, two similar main results will be presented for the socio-economic analyses. One with the original CO2 price of DKK 300. per tonnes and 1,500 kroner. per tonnes. The rapporteur's colleague, Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says it is important that the calculations take into account the commercial impact and that the Left will therefore use the original estimates. But is it precisely not a high price that the rapporteur himself has toured around, and does the rapporteur agree that we do not need to calculate at a higher price of CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141340	Right now, I actually feel like I've come to the exam on a subject I haven't read properly on, because I don't actually have that exactly on this. I have taken note of the debate, and I think the most interesting thing to look at is whether, when we look at these CO2 calculations, we take into account the traffic pattern we have in 2035 or 2040, or are we looking at how it is today • do we look at it through the right glasses? So that is the best answer I can give to the questioner here. I think that, in general terms, we should take into account CO2 prices in what we are doing. That is also why we are out with a CO2 but we must also look at the consequences it has. And if that is the consequence of the fact that industrial development, which we want in this country and which we can have because of the expansion of infrastructure, is not being implemented, then we must also discuss it. So that will be my answer to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141427	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141428	I know about the fact that sometimes you can forget questions or forget to read up on different things. It is not to be polemical, but now the rapporteur himself has toured several debates in which I have participated, with a higher CO2 price. And now the rapporteur's colleague proposes not to have it. Therefore, I just have to ask whether the rapporteur does not agree that we no longer need to calculate a higher CO2 price, as the Minister of Transport is now proposing. In other words, the rapporteur may well answer me if you think that this is a good idea intuitively, even though the rapporteur's colleague thinks that it is a bad idea when you have toured it yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141508-2	What I can answer the questioner on the question because I am not in all the details about how we make infrastructure calculations in Denmark is that as a general principle it is a good idea that the externality that lies on discharges is counted on. When an entity has to make some investment decisions, they count on it. But, of course, they have to look at what that investment leads to, because it can be an investment decision that will not be implemented until 2030, 2035, 2040. There they have to look at what the energy mix looks like and how we use energy at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141539	The next brief remark is to Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141541	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left for his speech and also for supporting the text of the adoption. Agriculture will account for between a quarter and a third of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, which is why I expect that we can undoubtedly agree that agriculture must reduce their climate gas emissions. If you ask Agriculture & Food, you can extract 100,000 hectares of low-level soils by 2030. It will then cost 8 billion. kr., if it is the taxpayers who have to pay it. I know the Left as a party that respects taxpayers' money and how it is spent, so I just want to hear: should taxpayers pay the whole bill for low-level land being taken out in agriculture, or could one imagine that farmers themselves are also contributing, for example. by using the future agricultural aid, i.e. re-using it so that it can also be used? So the question is: should the taxpayers pay 8 billion? kr., or can farmers themselves contribute?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141638	I would like to start by thanking Danish agriculture for all they contribute in Denmark • what they have historically contributed and what they still contribute in terms of jobs and job creation around in places where there may not be all kinds of new green jobs available. The reason I start there is that I think it is important to bear it in mind when we talk about agriculture, because we are also talking about a profession and I know that the rapporteur has also been involved in some of the technical reviews which, on their margins, that is their earnings, have little to do with. So to make such a big transition to a profession which, and I agree with the rapporteur, is straining the climate quite a lot and must therefore also reduce and say that they themselves have to pick up the bill in one way or another, is simply going to have some pretty wild consequences out there. So, immediately, I cannot just say yes to that proposal. When we look at the price tag on low-level soils, there may also be other ways to solve it. There are other players out there who would also like to help finance it, for example. in some nature recovery projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141740	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141741	If the tax burden on the agricultural industry is compared with that on the whole industry, there are significantly more taxes on industry and, after all, huge tax reductions on agriculture and have been so for decades. It also receives huge support in the form of agricultural aid. So I just have to say: is it just the case in the Left that you can regulate the industry, but that you cannot regulate agriculture through taxes and regulations, because that would mean that there would be some farmers who would have to pay part of the climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141816	In the Left, we are looking at what I also hope is done in the SF, the consequences that a possible political idea will have. That is why I am listening to it when the Environmental Economic Council comes and says yesterday that if we just blindly implement a CO2 that is not the way we should do it, and I hope the rapporteur agrees with me on that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141844	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur to speak is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Gundelach. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310141908	Thank you, President. When one reads or hears the Climate Council's recommendations in general, one sometimes gets the impression that basically everything would be much better if no people in Denmark were to eat, not any people to be transported, not any people who could bother the free nature, the free bird and the seeds and life as it used to be before man came here. Now the human being has come here, and we are some for whom the fact that Danes live in Denmark is, after all, a relatively welcome thing, and for whom the aim therefore is not only to bother the human behaviour and presence, but to find a way in which we can make a green transition in a gifted and economically sound way. Therefore, my starting point is always, when there were statements from the Climate Council, that if there is a version of Skalk that I have not yet read, then I do it first, simply because it most of all smells of socialism, and I don't bother it. When we drew up the latest Climate Law, we had a debate asking for more economic considerations to be included in what the Climate Council is going to do and for a little more attention to be paid to the Environmental Economic Council, and I also remember that it is written in paper, but it is obviously not written in a language that is read in the Climate Council. And it's a shame if at least the Socialist majority to which you can account the government and sometimes not; it's a little a matter of whether the glass is half full or half empty • reads the Climate Council reports as if they had been carried down immediately after Moses came down with the Ten Commandments. This is not how we see it in the Danish People's Party. We believe that the green transition must take place in a way that supports that we can, as far as possible, live the life that we are doing today. It is not about the Danes having to eat smaller pork roasts, fewer red steaks or more, but about the pork roast and the steaks and lamb chops that are produced being produced as climate-friendly as possible. That is why we do not accept the premise that Danish agriculture must produce less. On the contrary, if Danish agriculture could be allowed to produce the whole world's food consum, it would be much better than what is happening today. We do not accept that individual mobility should be less, but believe that we should work towards finding alternative fuels for gas, oil, diesel and petrol through power-to-x technologies, and that is what we are aiming for. That is why we do not accept at all the premise that you do not attach any weight to it at all, how the proposals you make, whether from the left or from the Climate Council it may soon be the same thing for jobs in Denmark, for life in Denmark, for the joy of life in Denmark etc. Now someone is having a birthday today, and then you shouldn't be talking this down, so it's okay that we have a single day when we're discussing the Climate Council. Maybe we should do it every year on Mrs. Signe Munk's birthday, because then there was something you could celebrate that day. But we are in this text of adoption because it is as unconcrete as possible and, moreover, we support the approach taken by the government here, namely to say that we must take advantage of the fact that we now have 10 years to achieve the 70-percent target. It's about investing now and then reaping when the investment is mature and in this second my speaking time is rounded out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310142314	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310142317	Thank you. After all, we can always discuss how concrete what is supposed to have been carried down on stone tablets and carved out by an elderly man many years ago is, but what is in any case irreproachable is the assessment that lies from the Climate Council. I assume that the rapporteur also agrees that when we ask the Climate Council to make an assessment, we must also deal with it. The Climate Council's assessment is quite clear. It says that the government's overall climate action does not show that the 70-percent target can be achieved. Therefore, I just want to hear whether the rapporteur thinks that a consequence must be drawn from it, because whether we do something or we do nothing, it will have consequences for how the Danes can live their lives in the future and what it is for a society we are going to live in. So I would really just like to hear whether the rapporteur agrees that it should have a consequence when the Climate Council gives the recommendation that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310142413	Yeah, I think we should shut down the Climate Council. I don't see what we need it for. We have some excellent business groups. We must listen to agriculture, industry, all energy production, maritime production. All these sectors have their fingers on the pulse and will both deliver the Green Denmark and make sure that people can afford to live and that they can listen to you, but the Climate Council, which has become a subdivision of the Enhedslisten, I think you can finance in red camp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310142446	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310142447	Now I can reveal that it is not all recommendations from the Climate Council that we think are the main ones to follow, but we recognise the premise that they are assessing government policy. And since it is part of the Climate Act, I am a little incomprehensible that the rapporteur believes that this is just something that we will then be able to scrap. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that the climate challenges still exist and that efforts need to be made and that until now it has been shown that it is not enough simply to leave it to the market, but that political governance is also necessary in order to achieve the climate target of around a 70-percent reduction by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310142528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310142529	No, the only thing I regret is that we don't leave even more to the market. So we don't talk up much more Danish agriculture and say that if the whole world produced with the same CO2 produced unit as Denmark, then the planet would have a much better climate. When we could get to that kind of snuff, we would be closer to solving the problems, but that is not what we do with the Climate Council and a left-wing majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310142558	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310142614	Thank you to the thing for the fine debate. Congratulations to Mrs Signe Munk, the initiator, and first of all thanks to the Climate Council for delivering the product: an authoritatively independent critical look at Denmark's climate policy, which unfortunately fails. Unlike the previous speaker, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, I think that the work of the Climate Council is exemplary and does exactly what it should. It supplies a commodity we need. The Climate Council report shows that we need to do more and that we need to do it more quickly. Under the Climate Act up to September, the Minister has, of course, called on the government to act earlier, with the proposal for adoption, which there is a large majority behind it. There are a number of recommendations from the Climate Council. The Radical Left is prepared to enter all of them. My special request is for recommendation No. 5, which is, of course, about a higher value of climate effects in socio-economic calculations, where we are at the very bottom of a planning engine in society, which unfortunately is wrongly set. As stated in the Climate Council's recommendations: decisions in the public sector, e.g. on new construction projects, are often based on socio-economic impact assessments. These assessments often include a calculation technical price for greenhouse gas emissions. This price should reflect that if a project, for example, increases emissions of CO2 e in Denmark, society will have to bear the costs of reducing emissions correspondingly elsewhere if the 70-percent target is still to be met. The Climate Council therefore recommends that the price of greenhouse gas emissions in socio-economic calculations be set at a level consistent with the 70-percent target. This means that the price must reflect the cost of the most expensive reductions needed to meet the target. This is a significant reduction, says the Climate Council, which is to pick up right here. The Environmental Economic Council recommends 1.200 DKK. per tonnes. The Climate Council recommends 1.500 DKK. All the actors I have talked to say that it is important that we get a high indicative price so that we know what to do by 2030. The government's moving on with 300. Then we hear a few words about making shadow prices that you start making them now, but it's not really a planning tool, and there will be situations where you don't put a true CO2 here I think we can act right away, and my special call to the government when we look down on the catalogue, and when we say that we want quick action, is that then it has to be right here to go into the planning first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310142851	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Sikandar Siddique outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310142856	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very detailed, in fact, speech on what we can do in concrete terms. So thank you so much. With the new leadership in the Radical Left, I do not think we see the same focus on climate. In the past, we saw a leadership that thundered against the government and said that if we don't get climate action, we will overthrow the government. Should we understand it as that the Radical Left is now just less focused on the climate, or is it another form, so to speak, one now has, or another approach one has to the government and to the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310142933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310142934	I shall leave it to the questioner to assess whether we have a different form. There is no doubt that our objective is exactly the same, namely to get climate action so that we meet not only a 70-percent target by 2030, but also a 100-percent target by 2050. It is absolutely essential for all other policy areas that we live up to this, and radicals have in no way changed the direction of compass in what we are doing. In this particular case, we have implemented a climate law that was important to us, and in it we have set up an annual wheel that will give the minister until September to deliver on this. So, in respect of the fact that we ourselves have made a year's wheel in the law we stand and, if I may say so, treat one off, then I must say that we will not overturn the government until September if they do not deliver on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143019	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143020	I'm glad to hear that, of course. At the same time, however, I have to admit that I am also annoyed by the fact that the Radical Left has the crucial mandates and is much more able to press the government. In fact, they can say... yes, I do not need to explain that to the rapporteur. I just wanted to say: if the government doesn't deliver climate action, for example. In relation to a 2025 target, will the Radical Left demand an expansion of government so that offices can be taken in and climate action guaranteed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143058	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143100	The next brief remark is from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143102	Thanks for the speech. But there are other methods. Now it is the case that the Radical Left is part of some of those agreements which receive the most criticism from the Climate Council, for example. the car agreement and CO2 2 If it is now the case that a majority could be found outside the government to open those agreements and get them made better, would that be something that the Radical Left might be looking at?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143137	In any case, the Radical Left is prepared to follow also the recommendations of the Climate Council, which are about opening up existing agreements in order to find sufficient leverage to achieve the objective that is most important to us, namely that we reach the recommendations made by the Climate Council, but which are of course not something that the Climate Council has come up with. So it's natural science that dictates that if we don't get these reductions done fast enough, we'll end up in a place we really don't want to be. So yes, we are prepared to open agreements to improve them if that is what it takes, and it seems as if that is what the Climate Council recommends.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143213	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143214	Will the Radical Left also be ready to open them on the basis of a majority bypassing the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143220	Well, that depends on what's in it. If there is a majority outside the government, one must assume that the Radical Left is part of it and thus one must believe that we can vouch for the policy. But very often when we discuss, for example. climate policy with e.g.: Enhedslisten, we can't agree down in the corners and the details. If we can agree on something that is clearly better than what is, then of course yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143237	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143256	Thank you for that, President. When it comes to delivering a clear and unambiguous message, there is no reason to wrap it up. It may just as well be delivered with a pinch and pinch, especially if it is a message of great importance, a message that has implications for our social design and future generations. We can see that the Climate Council is living up to this. Their criticism of the government's climate action is as crystal clear as it is devastating. Let me just quote from the Climate Council's conclusion: It is the Climate Council's assessment that the government's overall climate action does not show that the 70-percent targets of the Climate Act are being achieved by 2030. New initiatives are therefore needed. ▪ The Climate Council's judgment is unmistakable. The Climate Council has failed the government's climate policy. Then the Minister and the government can make quite a lot of sea explanations, but that is the facts: failed. They have failed the hockey staff and the government's blind faith that technology is doing the job for us. The fact is that after a year and a half we have only reached almost a third of the road. And to underline the point, the Climate Council goes on to write: "It is still unclear how the government intends to meet the remaining approximately two thirds of the reduction requirement. This is critical because time is barely in view of the considerable scale of the task and because the government expects to base its goal achievement on new and untested technologies. It's a clear fight with the hockey stick. We can't wait for a technological quick fix. It is gambling with the climate effort and indeed also with the economy. For the Climate Council's assessment is that the longer we wait with the necessary investments, the more expensive it will be. The political message is clear: we must move initiatives from the development trail to the implementation trail. We need to move focus from birds on the roof to concrete sustainable initiatives. The most important engine in this development is an ambitious sub-target in 2025 or at least as ambitious as the Climate Council recommends it, namely in the range 50-54 per cent. That is also why it is so disconcerting to see that the government is also foot-timing on this point. It is also embarrassing in view of the fact that the economists in the country say that it is only becoming more expensive, the longer the government waits. Only yesterday, the Environmental Economic Council came up with a clear recommendation that we should adopt a CO2 as soon as possible if we do not do so or if we wait too long, it will only cost more and more. The government's barn is therefore a threat to both the Danish climate ambitions and the economy. And yes, it is true that we have reached agreements over the last year, which have been steps in the right direction, but they have not been sufficient, as the Enhedslisten has also emphasised in every agreement. That is why, in the light of the Climate Council's criticism, we need to reopen the agreements and make supplementary agreements so that we can meet the binding objective that we have jointly set ourselves. At the same time, there is an undeniable need for an ambitious agreement in the field of agriculture that can ensure climate reductions; that can bring the climate objectives back on track again. The Climate Council says it crystal clear: there is a need for more planning and more reductions now and here, and there is a need for the government to stop only wanting to pick the very lowest hanging fruits. The climate crisis is far too serious for the Minister to have to stand here today, but at the same time the climate crisis is also so serious that we cannot just stand idly by. That is why this is both a political pressure, but also an appeal to the Minister and the government: there is a majority for a significantly greener direction, if you like. If you do not seize that opportunity and continue the current course, then you will be written into history as those who failed the historic green mandate we were given together. The Enhedslisten would like to see a much more ambitious proposal for adoption today, as our faith in the government's green good intentions is unfortunately not overwhelming at the moment. Unfortunately, however, there is no majority in favour of this, which is why the Enhedslist supports the proposal for adoption made earlier by the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143717	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now there is only one brief comment for two rapporteurs. The first is sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143723	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that the recommendations of the Climate Council should be followed. And now I understand that I have only one brief comment. If the rapporteur then answers yes to that, why did the rapporteur say so to Mr McMillan-Scott? Morten Messerschmidt, that there were elements that were not agreed with? And if you do not agree with everything the Climate Council says, what are some parts of what the Climate Council says that the rapporteur does not agree with? I hope that the rapporteur got hold of my question, because now there were some procedural changes here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143756	The rapporteur nods that the question is understood. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143759	Thank you. Well, when we see the Climate Council's recommendations, it's recommendations from a committee of experts that we have set up ourselves. It is clear that this does not mean that we are making their proposals one by one, but we must take their criticism seriously. We need to look at the proposals they make and then we need to assess politically which of them we want to give priority and which of them we put forward first; then we will have a political debate on it. We do not have technocrats in this country. After all, it is a political regime, and that is why we are listening to the recommendations of the Climate Council. We must follow the criticism they make, but it is ultimately a political choice and that is why we are here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143842	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143845	Thank you for your speech, thank you for your enthusiasm, thank you for your seriousness, thank you for showing such an understanding of the seriousness of this. The alternative is very much in agreement with many of the observations made by the rapporteur. We're afraid things are going too slowly. We can see the devastating criticism of the government, of the Climate Council and of a lot of other organisations, and we see the government standing and giving itself the character 12. Could it not also be that we had to try to put together a majority outside the government in relation to some of these elements, that is, where there is extra delay, in order to achieve some of the most important things for future generations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143921	Thank you for the question. I fully agree with the questioner that there is a need for political will to bring forward this agenda. Both the Alternative and the Enhedslist are good examples of this in relation to the whole climate agenda and the fact that we are actually here today with a climate law where we can discuss it here from a concrete overview. Yes, I fully agree that if it turns out that we can create a political majority outside the government to get these initiatives through, then, of course, we must take advantage of it, because the climate agenda is crucial, as is the political direction in relation to it. But it is not decisive, which political majority is adopted with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310143957	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party is Mrs Mona Juul. I'm sorry, but time's up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310144021	Thank you for the floor. I'm just gonna speed up a little bit. I would like to start by signing off on some good agreements on the North Sea and energy islands, and I also recognise the government for the commendation in the foreign media. It's great, and it's good. Unfortunately, this simply does not bring us closer to the 70-percent target, which the Climate Council's first report concludes as well. So despite the good intentions, the government's climate action has failed. That's not surprising, really. I remember very well last year when, together with Mrs Mette Abildgaard, I went through upcoming negotiations, because I simply did not understand that there was no order for the negotiations, the setting of targets per year. industry or sector, and that it was not all as elements of an overall plan towards the 70-percent objective. It was nicely frustrating, and I had difficulty getting hold of how far we really were and who was going to contribute what; so until I realized that there was no real plan. The government did not intend to translate targets into action. Negotiations were in different ministries, and there was not one unifying figure who had ownership and now we are standing here. Despite climate partnerships and a huge amount of work from almost all industries and stakeholders... most recently agriculture... we have fought through more than 27 technical reviews. It's all very good, it's great, and it's well-intentioned, especially if it had been in January last year. But frankly, it seems that everyone other than the government is in gear and that the government cannot translate input into action. More needs to be done, more needs to be done at all times, as with the green tax reform. In fact, we waited almost six months for the government to find out that it was not able to introduce a more uniform CO2 then time went by. And we didn't get green or reform, and now a commission has to do the job. It also took a while to get it right. Why weren't they briefed a long time ago? Overall, 8 months have now gone by, and it should actually have been phase one, but in fact we are in phase zero. In general, the government got off to a little bit of a foot-timing and waited almost six months to make agreements in relation to the Climate Act, i.e. from the adoption of the Climate Act to the presentation of policy in the first area. I want you to remember back on December 6th. The plan was there for the waste sector, but it was only presented in May. You could have just invited us into the engine room back then, as you actually now do with agriculture, much praise for it. But why should we wait more than a year for agriculture, that is to say for some of the hardest, for the sector that we all know is complicated because there are both feelings and jobs at stake; for agriculture is Danish cultural heritage, jobs, hereditary silver, DNA. Here 15 months after the Climate Act was passed, we still do not know what the government wants with agriculture. Moreover, why was it not important that the agreements were negotiated one at a time? Could it not have been negotiated at the Ministry of the Environment, Agriculture at the Ministry of Food and Transport at the same time? I think that would have provided an overview for all of us. I think that the government has been too slow and I think that time has been spent incorrectly. Too long has been spent in hiding and too little attention being paid to working with other parties. It has been bad for the climate and it has been bad for business. Decisions and clear framework conditions are needed in order to be able to invest in change. You need pointer marks and no more bells. As recently as yesterday, I saw that, despite the lack of reporting on a CO2, the Minister of Finance has, in fact, shown very little insight into what drives companies and markets. It reminds me when the Minister of Culture says that festivals can be carefully planned. No, it just doesn't even have on earth and the Earth calls. Conservatives want to see the government's plan for when we reach the targets of the Climate Act. We want to succeed in this and we want to make solutions together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310144423	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310144428	Thank you for that, and also thank you for your speech. After all, the rapporteur praised me for being positive in my speech. I wish I could have done the same, but I think that the speech made by the rapporteur was a little more gloomy. The rapporteur calls, among other things, for: sector plans, despite the fact that the Climate Council is opposed to sectoral plans. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is the case that you can just choose and choose between what you are listening to. In other words, you criticise the government when you think it fits in, and then you don't criticize it when you think it fits with some of what you might like. How does this relate to both the demand for a comprehensive plan and the desire for separate sectoral plans? Can the rapporteur try to say a little more about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310144511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310144512	Thank you for the question. I don't even want to talk about that shit. What this is all about is that we do not have a comprehensive plan for how we achieve the objective. And in an overall plan you will automatically have some building blocks where you have made some kind of idea of what each sector should contribute. I think that's logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310144531	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310144533	Thank you for an excellent speech. These were clear and clear and also harsh words from one of the usual mildest and most cordial voices of the Folketing. I cannot help asking the rapporteur about the same thing that I have also asked Enhedslisten about and Enhedslisten confirmed and which I have asked Radicals about, and there I certainly did not have it denied at all. Could it not be that we are in a situation that is so serious that we need to cooperate with some other majority in this Parliament in order to make the very, very necessary changes that need to be made in the climate area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310144606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310144608	I hope that in my speech I show that the Conservative People's Party is here to make solutions and that we are here to make solutions together. We must then do so with the parties that we think have some of the same positions as we do, but I am also sure that we are in fact parallel with the government in many areas and I am sure that we will achieve that. That is why we are pleased to note today that the Social Democrats have also endorsed the text of the adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310144635	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310144648	Thank you. The Climate Council report of February this year has five recommendations on how Denmark should achieve the goal of reducing CO2 by 2030. The Climate Council does not believe that sufficient has been done to illustrate the way to achieve the reduction. There are probably several reasons why the government has not done this: it will be expensive, it will cost jobs, and it will hit consumers. The Climate Council's recommendations include: to impose greenhouse gas taxes on industry and agriculture. The Climate Act damages the Danish economy and thus the standard of living at home, so the Climate Act is a loser for the Danes. New citizens have been against the 70-percent objective from the outset. Therefore, back in December 2019 we were not among the parties that joined the unrealistic agreement for us. The 70%. is a much greater reduction than the countries with which we compete have promised to implement. It is therefore inevitable that it will damage Danish export earnings and cost jobs. An article from Berlingske on 9 March tells the truth about climate taxes. Environmental economic wise men can say that for agriculture climate taxes will mean a regular bloodbath. With a uniform greenhouse gas tax of DKK 1,200. per tonnes of CO2 This means that up to one in four jobs in agriculture and one in ten jobs in the food industry will have disappeared by 2030. It is naive to think that large countries such as China and the United States will look our way when we simply make ourselves poorer. The United States and China just want to thank us for benefiting their economy. Denmark's CO 2 0.1% of the world's total emissions. Even if we stopped all emissions in Denmark tomorrow, it would have no noticeable effect on overall global emissions. Denmark's climate policy must be based on reason, scientificism and realism. The problems must be dealt with rationally. The Climate Act was a bad idea before the corona crisis, it is an even worse idea today. We do not need to climb the money in this situation; we have plenty more to spend it on. It can, for example, be done. to develop new and better technologies that can solve the problem in a profitable way. Denmark is a high-tech country and we have a role to play here. We have to take advantage of that. Stopping economic growth is the wrong way to deal with the problem. Only a prosperous country in economic prosperity will be able to afford the new and cleaner technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310144958	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145001	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur recognises that although we are currently only 0.1%. With the development and green transition we have in Denmark, we can actually risk, hope that the green transition for Denmark can become an export adventure, can secure jobs on the long track and can ensure exactly the growth we need in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145026	Well, I really hope that we can develop something that we can export. But we just can't see why we should focus so specifically on reducing Danish emissions by 70%. Well, that doesn't make any sense. Instead, we should focus solely on what gives export and which could help to displace CO2 That is where we will be able to have an influence. We have, for example. seen with our wind turbines that we have probably displaced Denmark's emissions many times already. So we think that's the way we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145100	The next brief remark is to Mr. Tommy Ahlers, but the questioner has come to press the wrong button, so there is another name, compared to what the questioner has checked in as. The correct voting panel must be pressed in just to make sure that it is the right name that comes out. Then it's mr. Tommy Ahlers to a brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145120	This is a follow-up to what Mrs Mona Juul asked. Does the rapporteur not recognise that by making a regulation at home, which means that we set a high climate target in Denmark, we are creating a home market that makes it here, that we have 19 ptx plants up and running or 15 carbon capture plants up and running, and so we have this export adventure from Denmark instead of giving it to another country like Germany or France?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145153	Not necessarily. In other words, as I say, I think it would be very good if we had the opportunity to develop something that we would be able to export. But I also believe that we have set such a rigid target of 70%. precisely in Denmark's geographical area, we are going to make some measures that will not be exportable, which will have no effect and which will then only be harmful to Denmark itself. Now we are engaged in the agricultural negotiations, the agricultural climate negotiations, at the moment, and I think it will be a bit of a litmus test of how this is going to develop. Because if we can do some things there that are sensible and that can help us to develop even better technologies than we have today and to help us export them, that is fine. But if we do some things that just damage our agriculture and move production abroad, so that it is produced in significantly worse conditions than in Denmark, we cannot see the sense of it. So we don't see this 70-percent objective as something logical and sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145246	Thank you to the rapporteur for the new citizens. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145312	Thank you, President. I think the government's own Climate Council has swept the curtain away under the government's climate policy. I think the government is out of line with science. When we see how the government handles the Corona situation, the government stands next to science with the best people at its side, and it uses very, very much the scientific assessments to lay its framework for reopening. I do not think that is the case here, and I think it is incredible that the government's own rapporteur on top of such criticism stands and gives himself 12 for climate policy. I know that this was something the rapporteur was asked about in a radio programme, but now the rapporteur has voluntarily repeated it four times in this Chamber. And my thought is, how much has it been understood? After all, it is not just the Climate Council that criticises the government's action plan, it is all the green organisations, and they have done so for a long time. They're demonstrating experts, scientists. And it's not just criticism anymore, it's desperation now. After all, scientists are throwing away their jobs and becoming activists to fight to save the climate. And when there is such a total lack of recognition and self-awareness, I think we should consider taking some of that agenda out of the hands of the government. I've seen the Left at least here in the platform... sometimes be more ambitious in the climate field than the government. Perhaps the Left should take the lead and try to bring together a few majorities for agreements that are more ambitious than what the government is doing at the moment. These could be agreements that tried to restore the pace that we have lost. If the alternative were to decide, we would like to start with a rapid climate tax on meat, on fuels and on aircraft, progressively and with social compensation, so that we get started immediately, and then phase them into the uniform CO2 that is not something I say we can stand here and get a majority for at all, but it could be one of our proposals. It could also be decided to speed up the process in order to learn more about uniform climate taxes. Well, you could actually set a deadline. That is what is most criticised by the Climate Council, and that is what it is absolutely impossible to get a response from the government to any action plan for, any deadline for, any timetable for. The most important sails. The car agreement could also be reopened. It also requires a majority vote and see if it could be improved. There are many things that could be done, and I think that this debate has made me worried. I had thought that there would be more self-knowledge; I had thought that instead of self-praise there would be a humility. And that is why, in the course of this debate, I think I have become interested in the majority that is emerging. We have a proposal for adoption which the government has then agreed to, but there is also a majority for it bypassing the government which could be used to speed up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145700	Thank you. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Beazley. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145704	Thank you. It may be that I should refrain from talking about grades, although it might be interesting to hear what kind of character the rapporteur thinks the rapporteur himself should have for the right, obvious, opinions and opinions that the rapporteur may have. However, I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur agrees that we have moved closer to the 70-percent target and not further away from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145730	Yes, thank God. That's all that was missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145737	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The last rapporteur is the rapporteur outside the groups and has thus reduced speaking time, and it will be further reduced in order for the Minister to be allowed to hit the platform in something similar to 30 seconds. Thank you, the next rapporteur has been cleaned up and ready. Sir. Sikandar Siddique outside the groups, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145802	Then I'll have to hurry, and then I'll be brief. Those politicians who do not act ambitiously and with due care in relation to the climate crisis have, in a figurative sense, blood on their hands. Their lack of action kills people, if not now and here, then in the future. For the climate crisis is already deadly serious, with human lives being lost. The politicians who slow down and fail to deliver immediate reductions in our emissions, as the UN demands, are guilty. They are guilty of something that can be described as a crime against humanity. The UN Secretary-General himself has called the present act of mankind's suicidal war against nature. We're killing ourselves. Bring it in! If we do not change course, we are heading for a warming that could mean that the earth can only feed 1 billion people • thus several billion people less than today. This requires that the government, and to such an extent also the support parties, not only comply with the climate law they themselves adopted less than 2 years ago, but also that they should do much more. So come on! You have the power. You're in charge. Live up to the green mandate on which you have been elected. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145925	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. Then it is the Minister to comment on the question and there is almost only one minute available. But here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310145948	Thank you. I'm gonna put aside the speech I've written, and I'm gonna give it another day. Thank you for a very good debate. There were a few words of commendation: 12 plus that I didn't even know that Tommy Ahlers could get it. Thank you. The rose is just as much addressed to yourselves, those who have highlighted it, because we have made broad agreements. I'm thinking that you might want to get rid of it, that I could also conclude that the criticism must therefore also be addressed to yourselves. I don't think that's how you're gonna quite conclude. But it is clear that we need to agree on these things and, of course, when there is a consensus in the Danish Parliament that action must be taken now, it is good. What may, of course, be of little concern is that there is obviously quite a lot of disagreement as to what that action should be. Some want a higher price for a uniform CO2 Others will await experts. That view is shared by the government. Some people want us to take off our velvet gloves on agriculture, as Mrs Signe Munk called it. That wasn't exactly the tone you heard from Mr. Knox. Tommy Ahlers. So there are major negotiations ahead. However, I am optimistic. We have delivered very great and very positive results over the past 18 months. We will continue to do so. This debate has been about the Climate Council's report. There were some very good recommendations in it. We will deliver on this and we will also be able to support the text of the adoption that is before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310150103	Thank you, Minister. Time's running out. I can see that more people have asked for the floor, but the speaking time has been spent in full. That concludes the debate, even though several people have been asked to speak. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday, 16 March 2021, as I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310150127	I shall begin by telling you that Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, will be answered in writing. 6 and 7 (pm. No. S 1055 and S 1056) to the Minister for Health, submitted by Liselott Blixt, Dansk Folkeparti, are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. I should also like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 12 No. S 1059) to the Minister for Defence, submitted by Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party, is deleted in agreement with the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310150154	That brings us to the first question. I do not see that the questioner is here. There's the question, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, who was in the Chamber a few moments ago, exists. He exists, he has taken part in the previous debate here, but should he not show up in a very, very short time, then we will see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been allowed to cross Knippelsbro and hopefully has got some air on the way. This is where all the rapporteurs have been hurried in the previous reading to be ready for 8 a.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: And now there is the challenge that, for good reason, the next minister is not present, as long as there were expectations that there were a few questions for the Foreign Minister. I see no other option right now than to postpone the sitting for five minutes. The meeting is suspended.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310150502	The sitting is resumed. The first question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is put by Mr Gundelach. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310150519	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310150522	Thank you for that, President. In view of the Prime Minister's visit to Israel, will the Foreign Minister confirm that overall EU vaccine efforts have failed and that therefore, in the light of hindsight, it was also a mistake to leave the Danish vaccine strategy to the EU from the outset?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310150539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310150540	Thank you, sir, and thank you to the author. Morten Messerschmidt. The short answer is no. Denmark would not have been better off if we had been outside EU cooperation on vaccine purchases, on the contrary. If it had been everyone's fight against everyone about the limited amount of vaccines available, then Denmark could be left on the platform quickly or risk it. Does this mean that the government is satisfied with the amount of vaccines being produced, and not least with regard to the delivery of vaccines? Absolutely not. The Commission has concluded agreements on up to 2.6 billion doses, but the challenge is that vaccine manufacturers have not been able to produce and deliver enough doses at a high enough rate. That is why the government has taken the lead in increasing Denmark's and the EU's production capacity and preparedness, but efforts within the EU cannot and should not be left alone. We need to explore all possible ways of strengthening our preparedness, while at the same time being fully committed to the EU track, and we do so on the Danish side. Moreover, it is in the light of this that the Prime Minister's trip to Israel must be seen, not as an opt-out of the European Union, but as a complement and as a necessary search for how we can strengthen ourselves in the face of future crises. It is a matter of due diligence. Denmark must continue to press for faster action in the European Union and, of course, we must also look for new and additional tracks that can increase the availability of vaccines and equip us better for the future. And that's exactly what the government is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310150716	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310150717	Thank you. Now it is fair to say that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is a sort of deputy today. Well, it was originally the PM we had asked about this relationship, but then she didn't want to be here. But we are very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs had the opportunity to pass the Folketing. In other words, there are several elements in the EU's vaccine management, specifically in relation to corona, which not only on the part of the Danish People's Party, but on the part of relatively broad circles, have called for a worrying interest, or perhaps rather a concern, at a time when we are among others. so that the approvals of the various vaccines that came into play went very, very slowly. In other words, the Americans, Canadians, Israelis and British, who have sneezing out of the stranglehold that the European Union is making up in many areas, were much faster in terms of being able to approve various vaccines and have therefore much faster started to vaccinate. That is also what makes it possible to say that when you look at the data we have across the various countries and look at the proportion of vaccinated people in the different countries today, it is true that you look at the European Union, Denmark is fine, but it is kind of like saying that it is at the top of Series 3 or something. After all, those who make up the super league are countries outside the European Union, i.e. those I mentioned earlier, just as Switzerland and others have done quite well. That is what calls for this question: is the right answer from Denmark always to call Brussels and then ask if there is an official who can help us? Could this not, in fact, be the most obvious lesson in the fact that the European Union is not always the right answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310150917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310150918	Thank you to the questioner. There were two questions that I heard. One was about the approval of the vaccines. Here, I have to refer fairly to the health minister's resort and thus refer to the Minister for Health, but also to mention that I fully agree that speed is absolutely crucial in the global pandemic we are in. At the same time, it is also crucial that we do not neglect the security of our efforts to achieve rapid targets. It is my understanding that the European Medicines Agency, EMA, has approved the vaccines against covid-19 as soon as possible. And from the Danish side we have been just as impatient as everyone else in approving new vaccines, but at the same time insisted that safety should not be put at risk, and it is clear that you can learn something from this process. I think everyone agrees on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151004	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151005	It is not only in Denmark that we are wondering and thinking that things are sailing in Brussels. We also have a number of governments, especially in Eastern Europe, who have simply chosen to say that they are not just going to follow the route of civil servants coming from Brussels, and they are starting to approve sputnik on their own initiative and buy, I think it is from Russia, and are also allowing themselves and the people to vaccinate and such things. If the Prime Minister does not want to be here, will the Foreign Minister confirm that the trip to Israel was a defeat for the European Union, because the fact that some countries are starting to run their own tracks must be an indication that the European Union has failed in this context too?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151046	The important political point here is that we are doing everything we can, including in relation to the EU track, to provide sufficient vaccine capacity, to develop in relation to new mutations and, of course, to ensure that we get the supplies that we have also ordered as soon as possible, and also to cooperate with other countries, for example. Israel, and we have also had cooperation with Australia, New Zealand, other countries also outside Europe, Norway, outside the European Union. In relation to dealing with the pandemic, Denmark is in a group of firstmover countries that have taken this on itself, because we are interested in getting our people vaccinated as soon as possible, and I am glad that the questioners share the same ambition as the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151127	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151128	There is no doubt about what we want in Denmark. The question is whether it has been a smart strategy to join the European Union. One could imagine that when one looks at the Commission on paper like that one thinks: Wauw, von der Leyen is a professor of epidemiology. Yet it has been chaotic, almost as chaotic as I think it was when she was a minister back in Germany. So in this way there is coherence in things. But that is not the question. The question is whether it was wise for Denmark to pursue the EU track, or whether we should perhaps have had such an independent idea as some of the Eastern European countries have, since they are now running their own tracks with new vaccines, which the EU will not, or at least has not, come up with in approving yet. Can't the Secretary of State see that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151207	The minister with the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151210	Then we are back to the original question that the questioner began with, that is, whether the countries would have stood better if they had stood alone instead of cooperation within the European Union. No, the countries would not have stood better alone, because then it would have been everyone's fight against everyone, and it wouldn't have solved this. Does this mean that the EU's management of vaccine and corona could not have been done differently and better and that there is nothing to learn in this process? Yes, indeed, and that is some of what Denmark has been pushing for, that is, that we get vaccine capacity up, that we get supplies up as soon as possible, that the companies that have to deliver the vaccines deliver on time etc. It is very important to have the people vaccinated, because it is the only way back to the everyday life that we are all desperate to get back.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151258	Thank you. The question has been answered. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and also by Mr Van den Broek. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151307	It's very related to the answer we got here. In the light of the EU's failed vaccine strategy, will the Foreign Minister show more restraint in providing the EU with more resources and more power over Danish affairs, and will the Foreign Minister take the initiative of an Intergovernmental Conference to discuss how the EU is to be stepped up in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151327	Thank you. It's no secret that sir... Morten Messerschmidt and the government look very differently at Denmark's relationship with the EU. I understand that the Danish People's Party wants Denmark to leave the EU, but the government believes that it is clearly best for Denmark to be part of European cooperation. And as I have just said, the government does not at all share the view that Denmark would have stood better today if we had been responsible for vaccine purchases on our own instead of being part of the joint purchase, and if it had been everyone's fight against everyone. I must also reject Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's premise that Denmark should give power to the European Union, because we cooperate voluntarily on, for example. the purchase of vaccines and, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt knows very well that the Member States always have the last word on health. I can also see from the question that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt asks whether the government will take the initiative for an Intergovernmental Conference. We do not want that, because it is the clear position of the government that the European Union should focus on delivering results and something that matters to the citizens, and that is why, of course, we should not waste our time on, for example, discussions on Treaty changes, institutions and navel pills. By the way, not many citizens are asking for that. The European Union is a political battleground, and we need it to work for what is important for citizens, starting and ending with delivering results. To be honest, I think that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's proposal, which also lies in the question, will lead to the exact opposite of what is intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151451	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151452	Now, on the previous question, the Foreign Minister said that we should learn from the whole Corona situation, from the corona epidemic, etc., and one of the lessons we could learn could be that the European Union has simply not handled it very well. I also believe that the Commission's commanding officers have been out to recognise that it has not been wonderful. The way you have been given approved vaccines very slowly, the way you have bought them and all that, has been exactly like in an Olsen gang film when you look at how the European Union works. One might imagine that the lesson would be that we should at least not give the European Union more power, and there are a number of areas where we are trying to increase the power of the European Union today. I believe that as recently as today's edition of Politiken, we could see Mrs Margrethe Vestager saying that it was important in the digital field that the European Union was given more powers, and I have also seen people speak in favour of having a genuine health union, in other words that the European Union, in this area of health, where it has just completely messed up with fatal consequences, will have more powers. After all, the Foreign Minister knows very well that even within the existing Treaty basis, in a large number of areas, we are constantly challenging and eating more and more into the sovereignty of the countries. One of the areas in which I understand at least that we agree in the rhetoric is with regard to the problematic proposal that has come about on minimum wages and such things. Perhaps the Foreign Minister is not speaking so freely here, but I think that if we were sitting and having a Leffe, we would probably agree in private that the European Union has handled this very badly. In that light, it might perhaps be appropriate to take advantage of the political momentum and try to talk to some of the other countries about how we then prevent the European Union from at least gaining more power, in other words how we are stunning the power of the European Union. Few people have noticed that Britain has just left, and things are going very well. On the vaccine front, the British have done a thousand times better than Brussels before they have commanded the troops around the continent. So what is it that means that the Foreign Minister will not go into that discussion at all about learning from this and saying that the European Union must have lost its powers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151703	I believe that it is important to make it clear in the first place that health powers lie first and foremost in the Member States, and I believe that too, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt knows very well. When we are dealing with a pandemic, I simply do not understand why the Danish People's Party says that strong international cooperation is not necessary. One of the things we see with regard to new mutations is that they jump from one country to another, and this happens in a pandemic, and therefore the cooperation to develop both vaccines, but also in relation to new mutations and to stop the pandemic, is crucial. And are there things in this process where the European Union can learn from what has been done? There is certainly a lot of room for improvement, but being outside of this cooperation wouldn't have made Denmark any better, rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151749	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151749-2	Does the Foreign Minister agree that public health is mentioned more than 50 times in the Treaty of Lisbon?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151756	I have not counted the number of times, but I know that in the end health competence lies with the Member States; Mr. Morten Messerschmidt too well. But what is the political question here is: should we cooperate with our neighbouring countries, the like-minded European countries, in a pandemic that is cross-border in its nature? Yeah, we are. Can we do better? Yes, we can, and some of what Denmark is pushing hard for, and I also believe and hope that the Danish People's Party supports this, is that we will get the capacity to produce vaccines in Europe and get the capacity to develop new vaccines against mutations, and that we will also build up stocks of critical equipment with which we had a challenge at the beginning of the pandemic. We need to work together on all this in order to succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151834	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151836	I recall on a stand-by basis that this is 66 times that public health is mentioned in the Treaty of Lisbon. Unfortunately, it's a few meters away from me, so I can't just hit it, but it's quite a lot of times. This may also be why the government decided on • not necessarily with the support of the Danish People's Party, but at least it decided to transfer the whole of the Corona strategy to the EU. We cannot simply suck that up and say that is not a competence that the European Union therefore has. And in relation to cooperation, I would just like to ask briefly: is it really the Foreign Minister's view that cooperation with other countries can only be achieved if it takes place through Brussels?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151908	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151909	First of all, I believe that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has got something completely wrong, namely that we should have left the corona strategy to the European Union. No, we have conducted a very active corona policy here in Denmark with great success in dealing with the pandemic. This is something that we have been working with countries both inside and outside Europe on in this group of firstmover countries, which are both EU countries and non-EU countries. Secondly, it is not a either or. When you're standing in a pandemic, it's a boat and... We must both strengthen our capacity in European cooperation, and we must also strengthen our cooperation with other countries that are in the process, including those in the region. Israel, in the struggle to roll out vaccines and get normality back into our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310151948	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and the Foreign Minister. The next question is to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly, and this has been asked by Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152010	Mrs Karina Adsbøl can read the question first.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152014	Thank you. Does the Minister still believe that the Government's ambition for more compulsory abortions and more forced abortions will give the children a better chance of a good childhood when, in the TV 2 documentary, we were able to observe numerous examples of abuse, violence and patronage of children from staff who are very little trained or personally equipped to work with children who are in difficulty?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152046	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. Unfortunately, the documentary from the children's home shows that there are a number of 24-hour institutions and places of residence for children and young people placed in care, where there has been unnecessary use of force and where the staff have not been qualified to care for the young people. It is awful and sad to see that some of the children and young people most in need of peace and stability in their lives are being treated so hard. This testifies to the fact that there are unfortunately some places where quality is not good enough. This needs to be corrected in the specific cases. However, we must also, more generally, strengthen the quality of housing facilities. The children first, the government's major initiative, therefore contain a number of suggestions to increase the quality of the institutions and foster families. We want to strengthen the Social Protection Agency and stop the possibility of drawing large profits out of private homes, so that the money remains in the offers to raise quality for the benefit of children and young people, and we are currently evaluating the specialized social area, where we are also examining the quality of places for children and young people. For me and for the government it is not a either or, but it is a boat and: we must both ensure that more of the most vulnerable children who need a new home get it, too, and we must ensure better quality and more stability in the placements. I therefore still believe that we should take action in the past so that all children can have a chance of a safe and stable childhood, a home and some adults that they can count on. Too many children housed today experience too many shifts: changing places of placement, changing schools and comrades. In some cases, the best thing for the child will be a placement or adoption, even if the parents do not consent, so that the child can have a safe home earlier and a family that is not only on loan. Hopefully, by placing some children in the past, we can help them before the problems grow so complex and so large that the child must be placed in an institution instead of being placed in a foster family. In this way all the bets are connected here, which is why the short answer to Karina Adsbøl's question is that it has to be both-and-so that we both help in the past and that we help better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152251	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152253	Does the Minister, when looking at such a documentary, agree that the system is failing children and their families, that there is a system failure in Denmark? In the Danish People's Party, we believe that when you place children, you should also make sure that they are placed for something better, and here we see a complete failure. We see that boys, among other things. We see violence and threats from the workers, we see the use of force, and we also see that the use of force is not all recorded. And I'm thinking, who's helping the kids? Where is the local authority's supervision of people? Where's the Social Services Department? Who's helping these kids when they're crying for help? How will the government's initiative ensure the quality of these places of residences that we've witnessed in the cry from the orphanage? I don't believe this is about whether it's public or private. I believe that, unfortunately, there are failures in several places, i.e. that it happens in private and that it happens in public. So you can't say it's either-or. How is the minister gonna get help with these kids? I would also like to hear from the Minister, when he has now seen this documentary, what initiatives the Minister has taken in the light of it. Will the Minister request a statement? Has the Minister made representations to the Social Protection Agency for an assessment of the state of the visit they have made to what they have recorded in relation to concerns? Because what we have witnessed in that documentary is deeply, deeply worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152441	Thank you. The documentary takes, among other things. A large number of the demands and stricter supervision that the Social Protection Agency has just made in institutions where quality has not been high enough, in addition to what the questioner is asking for. After all, one injunction and one sharpened sanction are too much, because it is an expression of a quality that has not been high enough. However, as far as the questioner is concerned, the documentary acts, among other things. of the instructions given. Then I would just like to say that I fully agree with the questioner that we must, of course, place something better when we take responsibility for those children where parents cannot take care of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152520	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152521	It will be so interesting to follow whether the Prime Minister will also give an apology to all the children who are now being system failures in Danish society. But what I would like to hear from the Minister is precisely in relation to what the Minister was saying, that is that it is the responsibility of the municipalities. The question is again, when the municipalities fail to fulfil their responsibilities, what consequences will it have? It hasn't helped these boys. You have not heard anything about personal oversight. No one has listened to these children in relation to the challenges they have had. What are the consequences of a major system failure on the part of the Danish state, so this is happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152601	I would like to make it very clear that I believe that this is also a political responsibility for us. That is why we are sitting and having debates right now about the children first, about improving the area of the most vulnerable children in our society. In the specific case, it is the municipality's responsibility to follow up. We saw the example of a 12-13-year-old who carried out an armed robbery and then was placed in a place where he came into contact with tough gang criminals and became a drug addict. A municipality must follow up on this: Have we placed the child for something better? That is what the questioner himself described. No, you don't have that when a child gets into a drug abuse while you're at it. But politically, we have the responsibility to take a few measures that will make it impossible for this to happen and that we will have a higher quality in the placements.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152642	The questioner for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152643	Well, I totally agree with that. We can take all the political steps we want from within the Folketing, but that does not mean anything in relation to the implementation of the measures we have adopted by law. If they are not followed, if the intentions are not respected and the legislation is not complied with and no one is following up, then we can make as much legislation as we want. After all, we have the Children's Reform, which has not yet been fully implemented in all 98 municipalities, and then you build on top. However, when we see system failure on system failure, I am concerned that the government's solution is more forced adoptions and more coercion, because precisely in this example we can see that there has certainly been no improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152726	Thank you. The minister for his last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152727	Thank you. One of the things that is absolutely fundamental to the government with the children First, is that we have to listen much more to the children. The children must have a much stronger voice in their own cause, for it is their own life. The children know quite a lot about what their everyday life is. This hasn't happened in these cases, where kids tell how they haven't been heard, how they haven't been heard, in terms of whether it's the right match, and whether they're a place that can take care of them. They have not been consulted on the fact that they have experienced their borders being exceeded. And that is why it is very fundamental that we now need a new child's law, in which we ensure in all processes that the child's voice is strongest. And then I very much agree with the questioner that I hope that together we can follow it very, very closely, so it also means a changed everyday life for the children out there, because that is what is absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152808	Thank you. The question has been closed, so the questioner cannot go back on. But, of course, this is an important debate. Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly, and thank you to Mrs Adsbøl. The next question is to the Minister for Health and has been asked by Mr. Peter Skaarup of the Danish People's Party with enquirer Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152831	Please read the question, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152834	Thank you very much. The question is this: what is the Minister's view of the clear link between immigration-heavy areas and the super-spreading of covid-19, as we have seen in Vollsmose, and does the Minister consider that it is necessary to shut down these areas altogether?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310152855	Thank you. In recent weeks, unfortunately, we have seen an alarming development of the disease locally in several parts of the country, among others. the places mentioned by the questioner here: Ishøj, Kolding and Vollsmose in Odense. That is why it is also important that measures to reduce infection are taken quickly. And more action has been taken. There is increased testing effort locally with test sites; there is follow-up action by the Patient Safety Agency; there is distribution of information material; there is door-to-door contact with citizens with request to be tested; there is closure of institutions • day care institutions, schools and leisure clubs. Then there is communication from the municipality, also on social media, a targeted communication effort, and it is also in several languages where Danish is not spoken in all households. And then there is contact with larger associations in the area concerned, and they can be cultural or religious associations, housing associations, etc. And then there is simply daily focus on infection rates in schools and institutions. It is really crucial that we have close cooperation with the relevant municipalities on intensified communication. And there is also the fact that citizens are told to be tested by text message. I think that's crucial, so we're gonna continue this. What, then, is the reason why some areas are hit harder than others? Well, if you ask our experts, there are many different reasons. Some infection comes from schools and institutions, as we knew: when you opened them, there is something infected there. Then there are also some of these residential areas I have mentioned here, where there are citizens who have jobs that require physical attendance. There are also dense living conditions with few square meters and many people living together. There are social barriers, it may be language barriers that I mentioned and there may also be cultural barriers. Either way, it's time to take action. Corona doesn't know the difference. It infects where it can, and that is why action must be taken, no matter what, and we are ready to use all the tools we can to take action.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153103	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153104	Thank you for your answer. What I and the Danish People's Party want is for the government to take this more seriously. We'd like to get these numbers around our ghetto areas significantly reduced. For example: In Vollsmose, we have seen an explosive development in recent days, where we see a so-called incidence figure of over 700, and although it has fallen a small my here over the last or two days, it is still violently, violently high figures there compared to other parts of the country, plus that it is also seen at national level that immigrants and foreigners are unfortunately not good enough to follow the restrictions. There is something cultural that is ingrained, which we are also asking about here during Question Time, which means that the levels of infection we see are extremely high compared to the average of the other population in Denmark. You've looked at the rate of infection for this group, and it's about. 20 per cent, where for the general average population it is 8 per cent. This means that we have a major infection among immigrant groups in Denmark, and it's borne by these ghettos. And every time we've seen some of these big outbursts, yeah, it's almost like they've started around some of our ghetto areas or schools in Denmark. So I would like the government to tell us what more the government will basically do about it. We are talking about isolation, we are talking about muzzles and such things, but as many experts have also mentioned, one of the challenges is that if people are not recognised as being tested, that is that we cannot see whether they are infected, it is of course not very much worth doing isolation because we do not know who to isolate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153304	Thank you for your clarification. Firstly, there is one thing for the questioner's otherwise, I think, very precise depiction here, as I have to say, and as I think it is important we are also saying here in the Folketing, and that is that it is not possible to cut everyone off. The questioner was told that foreigners, people of other ethnic origin, generally it sounded like that, at least, is bad at complying with these restrictions, and that is not the case. It simply cannot be done by cutting everyone over a comb. After all, there is nothing about why this should be the case. But there are some areas of Denmark, some places, and there is also an ethnically, completely agreeable, but it cannot be said that everyone with other ethnic origins is so bad at complying with our restrictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153348	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153349	Now we were talking about opportunities in the Epidemis Committee this week, which is why I would like to hear the Minister's assessment that the government and the Danish People's Party, because we actually stood together there, could not get a majority in favour of the measures we would like to do there. What does it do for the Minister, and what does it do in relation to future efforts, that is to say, you will not be able to issue this command for testing to immigrant-heavy areas such as Vollsmose? So I would also like to ask: what does the government intend to do in the future if this continues, i.e. if we see these incidences of over 700 in Vollsmose?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153432	It is a perfectly correct description: that there was not a majority in the Folketing to go ahead with what the authorities recommended, namely a duty to be tested and to be isolated if you were positive. It is just testing, tracing and isolation that is so crucial, and we do not get tested enough in Vollsmose; that was the clear attitude of the authorities. And I was also disappointed and surprised that the Folketing did not follow the clear attitude of the authorities. But when there is no majority in the Folketing, we cannot go ahead with that attitude, and then we have to do everything else, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153505	Thank you. Then it's the enquirer, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153511	Thank you, President. I think it is quite reasonable that the Minister feels the need to instil that not everyone with a Muslim background behaves irresponsibly and is a risk of infection. But it is equally reasonable to say that where there is a great accumulation of people with a Middle Eastern culture, there is a very general problem in the ghettos. When we look around where there are these outbursts all the time, it's just surgical precision in the ghettos or in schools where there are a very large number of students with a Middle Eastern background. That's why I'd just like us to call a spade a spade here. Is the reason why Danish students from Frederikssund and down to Køge, etc., who could never possibly fail to comply with these rules, now that next week can only go to school outdoors once a week, not precisely that in Nørrebro and in all the areas where there are Arabs, you just don't care about complying with the rules? And once again it is the Danish who will have to live under restrictions because of some foreigners who do not want to do what the authorities say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153613	On the part of the government, we are putting in everything we can, and I think that our handling has been characterised by health care and by the fact that we do not distinguish at all between religion, which was mentioned here by the questioner, or skin colour. If there are language barriers, whatever there is, then we are there; then we knock, then we are there with test sites, then we put in lightning fast. Then we tried here because we had a special situation in Vollsmose, to say that something more was needed. It is, moreover, the same requirement that we make for all those who go to 3 g, where a large part of Denmark's high school youth is now going back to school on Monday. They have to be tested twice a week to show up. That was the demand we would make to the citizens in the place where there was a high incidence once a week and Parliament did not think that should be done. It surprises me, and it disappoints me. But I can only intervene with what I can get a majority in favour of in the Folketing. That is why we must continue to work on the tools that are available and, fortunately, there are many tools. But we are not going to distinguish between religion, skin color and anything else; we are going to do where the problem is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153720	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153722	I think the Minister misunderstands my business, because for a rare time I am not after the Minister at all. He's not my concern at all. No, it is all those people whom the Minister's party has let into the country for decades, who are just completely indifferent to the authorities and rules, because they are the ones who make it impossible for us, who can find a way of complying with the rules, to get our normal lives back. I think the Minister could have a recognition of that. We have something called ghetto packages, where other rules apply to those who live there, simply because we know that there are some problems in those areas that are peculiar. Could it not be said that if you did not want to be tested there, the cash benefits will simply go away?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153800	Again I have to say: no matter who it is that doesn't comply with our restrictions... and that's whoever it is... it's being put in. And I am not going to accept any excuse for not complying with the recommendations of the health authorities, because it in itself brings Denmark to the brink of a flare-up of the epidemic, and that in itself delays what we all long for, namely a reopening. And that's whoever it is, and I'm not going to make any difference to who it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153833	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for one last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153835	I think I got a little wrong in my first speech. I would have liked to ask, and I would like to ask the Minister if he thinks that immigrants and foreigners in this country are good enough to follow the restrictions when they are 20%. of the total number of infected, but only 8 per cent. of the population. And does the Minister think that it is reasonable that a care centre on Funen should hire guards to keep track of the fact that some who are isolated actually comply with that isolation? After all, some immigrant groups do not care about everything the rest of us have to observe. Is that really acceptable?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310153927	No, that is not acceptable and it is not acceptable, regardless of who does not comply with our restrictions or does not comply with the guidelines that our employees provide. No matter who it is, it is not acceptable. I mentioned in my first reply that our epidemiologists are looking into this, and there are a number of different conditions, including cultural and language barriers, housing, jobs and other things, which mean that there is a higher level of infection in some residential areas than others, but these are also cultural and linguistic issues. But I feel as Minister for Health that I can't use that for anything. I can only say one thing: solve all the problems that are and come out and get people tested and isolated, and track down the infection that is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154005	Thank you. The question has been answered. Now that is the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Health and also by Mr. Peter Skaarup and co-author Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154014	Please read the question out loud, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154017	Thank you. And it sounds like this: What do the Minister and the government think are the right tools in order to stop the spread of covid-19 in immigrant tongue areas such as Vollsmose and Ishøj?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154034	The tools are the same: rapid reaction, testing, tracing, isolation. After all, we in Denmark have achieved a great deal by volunteering, and we have not, like many other countries, imposed curfews or various forms of coercion; we have not done so in Denmark. There are some requirements to be tested if you're going by plane, if you're going into education, if you're going to the zoo. It is there, and there will probably be in future when we have to open up more, that is to say some kind of demand for it. But testing, tracing and isolation are the recipe, and it has been for 1 year now. That's what our epidemiologists are proposing. Then the government has supported the fact that the authorities decided that we should do something about the fact that there are too few people in Vollsmose who are being tested and too few who comply with their isolation. Therefore, there was a recommendation from our authorities to introduce a requirement that one should be tested once a week if one comes or moves in Vollsmose, which is the district that has had the highest incidence rate, and a requirement that one should be isolated if one has a positive test. The fact was that there was no majority for that in the Folketing. That is to say, there was a majority for the part that is about isolation and that with masks, but not for the part that is about testing requirements. I asked the Epidemic Commission, that is. Our health authorities, if, and their assessment, it is unwise to go further epidemiologically with a requirement for isolation if there is not also a requirement for testing, because the two things are simply connected. That is why I am going to send a letter to the Parliamentary Committee on Epidemis, explaining why it is that we choose not to go there; because we will not do anything that our authorities warn against. Because the danger could then be that fewer people would be tested, and we need more people to be tested not only once, but once a week in those residential areas where there is a high level of infection, and that is exactly what the questioner is saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154235	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154235-2	In relation to the latter, I would like to thank the government for making this proposal. I have to say that I was deeply puzzled, not so much that the SF, Enhedslisten, Radicals would not support such proposals, but I was surprised that the Left, Conservatives, New Citizens were opposed to intensive testing in these ghettos, and that they say it is a command, that is to say, that you have to do it. As the Minister has also said, it is clear that if tests have not been carried out, it is not very worth tightening up on isolation, and it is hardly worth a discussion whether or not we comply with isolation, because we have not found out whether people are ill from the start. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: what will the government do if these figures remain so high? This is, of course, a risk to the whole reopening that we all want. We want schools to open up completely and not just some outdoor education once a week; we want the post-schools and the high schools to open up; we want the shops to open up and the liberal professions to open up, but these Muslim groups who do not care about Danish law, Danish legislation, Danish guidelines put everything at risk, and I do not think the government can do that either. So summing up: What will the government do in the future to take action against these environments that don't bother listening to the good advices in quotes from the authorities? Will we continue to work on the proposal for injunctions? Will we continue to isolate in harmony with commands? And will one continue to keep open the possibility that areas can be completely closed and it will then be curfew if there are still such high incidences, that is to say over 700? What does it take for the government to understand the seriousness of this, and what does the government think it takes for the other parties, the Left, the Conservatives, the New Civils, the Reds to understand the seriousness?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154446	What are we gonna do now and here? There are, of course, a whole range of tools at play, and that is the way of volunteering, but then we have to be down there. I can tell you that we have intensified surveillance. It may fall a little outside of this question, but it's all about hyperlocal surveillance, actually down to parish level, whether or not it's people who are members of the church who live in the parishes, and that means that the board is now heading out to parish level in different municipalities. It is not just some from some lists, it is, whatever it is, because if there is a parish that starts to run at a low level, then we put in, and we are ready to close schools and institutions, and we call for tests and local test sites in those places.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154532	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154533	I think it is fine that we may want to do something at parish level and something like that, but on the bottom line it just says, unfortunately, that there are some groupings, and that is not just in this case, because we also see that in other matters of crime, which just won't understand and which is thinking: Now the Minister for Health, Magnus Heunicke, says something, but we don't care about that, we don't give a shit about that. So I am calling for what the government actually has in the bag, because we cannot have there becoming more and more infection in these areas and that it is spreading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154612	No, we cannot, and we follow it on a daily basis with figures for testing, and we find out how many people isolate themselves. And there are many who are being tested, and we must remember that too, but then there are also some who do not stay, and these are the ones we need to be tested. And all sorts of things are added to it. Specifically, we are being asked whether we are considering a curfew, but that is not something we are currently considering, and I am personally and politically very, very pleased that we in Denmark have not had to use the curfew tool, which we have seen should be used in many other places in Europe. It is important that we get through the pandemic without using that tool, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154655	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154659	Thank you, President. Now I asked before whether the Minister would not agree that the reason why Danish schoolchildren cannot go to school is primarily that the Arab children in the ghettos cannot find a way to comply with the rules. Then we can continue the tirade now. I can see that the Minister for Health has gotten a little bit more through that with the closed hairdresser salons than I am. I think you're starting to need a haircut, don't you? And it's not those lady hairdressers, not these traditional Danish hairdressers that are the problem. That's not where the infection chains are. What's the problem is all these Arab hairdressers, where there are four on the strip and some on the back, and then the cousins are sitting behind, totally worked together. Can the Minister not come a little closer at all and recognise that it is really in this epidemic that we have seen that there is a cultural battle side and, consequently, that it is also the people who in everyday life do not comply with instructions from municipalities and from the police and from the authorities in general that are causing the problems now, and that is why we should all go around looking like some other edition of a 1980's pop musician?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154806	I don't know what kind of band I was supposed to be in then. I think it's a little too simplistic compared to what's driving the epidemic. It cannot be said that it is only an ethnic problem that drives the epidemic in Denmark or in Europe. There are rock-proof problems in some residential areas. This is due, among other things, to: cultural conditions, language barriers, housing conditions, job conditions, etc. However, it cannot be said epidemiologically that this is only what drives or has driven the epidemic. We can see the spread of infection that has taken place. It's happened. When I hear sir... Morten Messerschmidt sounds almost as if it has only happened in such areas where people live from other countries or are Muslims, and that is not true. We also have what epidemiologists call super-spreading events at events where there is only ethnic Danish. We do. We have to be honest and say that the infection here doesn't really care about skin color or anything else. It is where there is a possibility of infection, and we must fight that wherever there is an opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154917	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154918	It is as if the Minister is beating all sorts of curls on himself against wanting to acknowledge what is the factual relationship. We just see statistically that it's in these ethnic Middle Eastern areas where it's bouncing out. And it's not just in Denmark. In Belgium, in France, in Germany it is the same thing. Is it some kind of resistance that the Minister has as Minister or as a Social Democrat, or what is it that does not want to talk openly about these things? Surely it may be a little bit worrying when it is the Minister who has to deal with the problems that he is then not willing to speak openly about them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310154951	I can hear that one would like to have such a conflict here as if I did not want to talk about the problem. Nothing could be more wrong, and I have said openly at the beginning of this Question Time, including on the previous question, what the problem is, how we put in and where we put in. It is also well known that, with the support of our experts in the Epidemic Commission, this government has proposed putting in place additional tools precisely where the problem is. We make no distinction, and we hide nothing under the carpet or try to hide anything. We are taking action wherever the problem is, of course, also in places where the problem is ethnically conditioned, residentially conditioned and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155034	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155039	Why don't we just make it clear that we have a problem? It is clear that the infection does not know the difference between a person with a Muslim background or a person with a Danish background. But if you look at the figures and we got them last week they show that non-western immigrants and their descendants in February are 26.3%. of all infected people in Denmark, despite the fact that the group is only 8.9%. of the population. In fact, it shows with all due clarity what is at stake here. So what the government is going to do now is to inform the Epidemic Committee that isolation is being dropped, as I understand it. But what does the government put in its place? Because something has to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155128	We fully agree that this is a problem. It's a massive problem with this infection and where it is, and there's no doubt that there's an over-representation of infected and hospitalized people with a non-Western background. After all, we have presented that figure quite openly from the beginning, and I have no interest in hiding it or anything else, on the contrary. I have an interest in one thing: to knock down the infection. And of the tools we then proposed to use, the Folketing said yes to something, but unfortunately, no to what had the greatest effect. But then we have to go the other way. And what is that? It is boots on the ground, being present, knocking on the doors, having the test sets and following it very intensively.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155210	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Health, to Mr. Peter Skaarup and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. The question has been answered The next question is to the Minister for Health, asked by Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155229	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155232	Thank you. Does the Minister think that, as a society, we can be aware that the elderly and the vulnerable are not able to accept the vaccination offer they receive because the time order does not work optimally or because they do not have the opportunity to drive long after a vaccination • possibly because they are bedridden or very bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155253	No, I don't think so. There is no doubt that the covid-19 has hit and hit our elderly and our vulnerable particularly hard and has done so for a long time. This is why nursing home residents and the elders in our society have been among the very first to receive a vaccination. We can then see that some elderly people, who were either not able to drive long or have had difficulty booking a vaccination, and as a society it is a task that we must be able to undertake. In order to resolve this problem, an offer has now been made for running vaccination units for our oldest citizens and for citizens who receive help from the municipality in their own homes, who find it difficult to show up in a vaccination centre themselves. We started this on 5 March on the basis of a note from the Danish Health Service. This includes citizens in what are called target groups 2 and 3 of the vaccination plan, i.e. citizens who receive help in their own homes, and citizens who have reached the age of 85. Later, it may also include persons with serious limitations in their ability to function. Therefore, the Danish Health Authority has asked our municipalities to identify citizens in target groups 2 and 3, who have not yet been vaccinated because they cannot be transported to a vaccination centre. At the same time, we must support that the citizens who need it are also helped to book time. This is a different part of the problem and work is done intensively to improve this booking system, which is very scolded, and make it easier to use. It also happens that our municipalities contact all the older citizens who have been invited but who have not booked a time themselves, to offer help if you are interested in accepting the vaccination offer, and offer help for booking and for vaccination, while at the same time increasing the staffing of the regional hotlines that help with this booking over the phone. These are a number of measures which must help our elderly and who are at risk of being able to accept the vaccination offer, which for many is the letter of liberty which gives them freedom from one year in isolation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155452	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155453	Well, it's completely crazy that you haven't done it from the start. You also start by sending letters to citizens without a telephone number, and then you leave older people in an attempt to do this with the digital. It has been over 55 days since the Elders case made representations to the Minister, and it has been a long time since I made representations to the Minister in relation to this vaccination scandal. You've had a long time to make this right. Why has it not been thought from the outset that we must, of course, get the vaccination out locally and we must help locally? At the moment, it can be read in a Zealand newspaper that it is Funen and Copenhageners who come and get their vaccinations. I mean, it seems like there's not much under control, and in the meantime, the elderly are getting hurt. And we could read in the Jutland West Coast that many older people are abandoning this system. So what is the background to this lag? You have to be able to imagine that when you create a digital system and not all older people are digital, you have to help. And when we have more elderly people distributed in the regions, we should also be able to imagine that each region and municipality should, as well as ensuring their citizens. So what's going on? Why is it only now that this is being corrected? And can we be sure that this will be corrected, or will we still experience the elderly who are struggling to get their vaccination? Well, what should you do as an elderly person? Where to contact? You run your forehead against a wall all the time; plus the fact that we could read about a cancer-sick person who had to drive over 100 km to get a vaccination; plus the fact that when you have to have second vaccination, yes, then you cannot get it in the same place. In other words, it seems that what is going on is completely chaotic, and I am surprised that the consideration that has been given from the outset has not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155657-2	There were a number of questions. I simply do not think I can answer all those questions. We only have 30 seconds. I'm trying to take as many as I can. Compared to the second vaccination, we are trying to make a setup now that, when you book your first time, you automatically get your second time. In relation to contact with the municipality, we do so with a system that means that if you have not responded and booked a time yourself, one week after you have received the invitation, you will be contacted by your municipality for help to book a time. In relation to the transport of the elderly, we are creating a system now that the municipality is addressing the elderly in these target groups that have been identified and says: If you need help to be transported, you will be. And now I can't answer any more of the questions that were.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155734	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155734-2	But I am surprised that no action has been taken from the outset, that is to say that these vaccinations have not been taken locally, that no account has been taken of the fact that there are some sick and elderly people who cannot transport more than 100 km to a vaccination site. All the way through, mistakes have been made. What is the reason for this? What is the reason why it has not been possible to imagine that it should simply be done properly from the outset? How hard can it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155804	Yeah, how hard can it be? Look around Europe, look around those who have received vaccines for the country: how high a percentage have they been exploited and used? Denmark is at the top, a huge job, but it's because these vaccines have to be chicked up, and then they have to be pulled up, and they have to be mixed up. I myself have witnessed how this is going on, completely, and a drop must not be wasted, because you have to draw the maximum amount of these doses that you then get, which are mixed up, and they should then be used when they are in the syringe, within a short time. So that means that there are a large number of deeply complicated elements that we must be sure are done safely and happen without risking that doses are wasted in Denmark. Because these are really expensive drops for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155854	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155855	Will the Minister ensure that older citizens can be vaccinated in their own city? Will the Minister ensure that they can be vaccinated locally? And will the Minister ensure at national level that bedridden elderly people receive a vaccination where they drive out to them and give them vaccination? Because that is what we can read in the media. I'd like to hear: what's the status now? What about the five regions in relation to this? Is that all right? And can we be sure that older people can now get their vaccine and that they don't run their forehead against a wall?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155928	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310155930	Thank you. It's almost impossible for me to answer that. I would really like to answer the question, but every time you have the floor, eight questions are asked and I have 30 seconds to answer, and that simply makes no sense. I have to provide an answer about every region, I have to provide an answer about bedridden, and I have to answer everything. I have tried to answer the questions as well as I could at all, but I understand that one who asks then thinks that it is sailing and is bad. I do not think it is so bad, but I can say that today I have had a meeting with Elders Sagen and Danske Patients in order to hear their criticism and correct the system, so that we will just take care of the elderly, who are busy walking, who are bedridden and who find it difficult to leave, so that they get help either at home with themselves, or they get picked up at a vaccination site close by. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160019	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. The next question is also to the Minister for Health, and it is from Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens who is allowed to stay ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160044	Thank you. What does the Minister think about developments in the municipality of Fredensborg, where in the districts of Kokkedal and Nivå there is a violent outbreak of infection originating from a Friday prayer in a local mosque?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160051	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160052	Thank you for the question. I have approached the Board of Patient Safety, which is responsible for the detection of infection, and they have provided the following information, and I quote: it cannot be confirmed that the increasing infection in the municipality of Fredensborg can only be attributed to the outbreak, which has otherwise stopped, in relation to a mosque. It is very much a matter of citizens living close to home, and many infected people are infected at work and take it home in the family. Quote out. I can add that it is important that we do everything we can to ensure that the coronasmit does not become stigmatizing. We are dealing with a pandemic and we can see that everyone can be infected. We've seen that all over the world. Having said that, it is equally important that all the issues come to light, and there is no doubt that not only now, but continuously during the pandemic, we have seen an over-representation of infected and inlaid with other ethnic origins, and there are a number of reasons for this. Culture and language can clearly play a role, and housing, job and so on. Of course also, so it is not an uncomplicated diagnosis. Whatever the reason, however, there is no excuse not to adjust one's everyday life to conform to the guidelines of the health authorities. That is why we need to take action locally, put in place tests and information on isolation, and we wanted to go further from the government, so that in the residential area where it was worst, it was in a residential area on Funen, it required testing and isolation, and unfortunately there was no majority for that in the Folketing, even from the questioner's own party, unfortunately. But there is no doubt that we must do what we can, and there is only one interest for me and for our authorities, and that is to make concrete, rapid and local efforts to stop the infection, and that is why we do not accept religious, cultural, linguistic, housing, job-related or other excuses for not complying with these guidelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160257	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160259	Thank you for your answer. Now I grew up in the municipality of Fredensborg, and I have lived there for many years, but before Nivå and Kokkedal were merged with the municipality in 2007. But since then I have worked at a school in the municipality for almost 6 years, and my parents still live there. And the incidence rate in the municipality of Fredensborg has been up over 200, and right now it is almost 160. The district of Kokkedal has been hit hardest, followed by Nivå, Humlebæk and Fredensborg, and the latter two districts have had almost no infected. I fully understand if the Minister does not know Fredensborg Municipality as his own pants pocket, but I would still like to ask whether the Minister can tell a little about the population composition in Kokkedal and Nivå versus Humlebæk and Fredensborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160346	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160347	I am familiar with the places in question where population composition and housing are concerned, that there is generally an over-representation of people who come with a non-western background, i.e. non-Danish ethnic origin. I will not be able to say exactly where the dividing line is going, but that is quite clear, and that is why it is very close to the answer I gave before, namely that there has been, and still is, an over-representation. That is not only what drives the infection, but there is a clear over-representation, and that is why we must, of course, take action there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160424	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160425	Again, I would like to thank you for your answer. I can tell the Minister that the Minister is right in that way when he says that in Kokkedal and Nivå there are very many foreigners living in Humlebæk and Fredensborg, and the violent outbreak of infection in the municipality comes from among other things. Also from this Friday prayer in the local mosque. The high levels of infection in Kokkedal and Nivå mean that the overall incidence rate for the municipality is high, and this contributes among other things. that children and young people in northern Zealand cannot now return to school as contemporaries in the rest of the country. Why do the Danes have to pay so high a price because there are still problems in immigrant dense cities and areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160502	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160503	It was, of course, the same question we had earlier this afternoon. It is not the case that what drives the Danish epidemic is neither now nor in the past an ethnic problem. It's also I have no interest in talking it down or explaining it away in any way... why should I? I have an interest in one thing, and it is that all
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160544	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160545	We just have to recognise that you can see where the infection rates are really high, and that is in the western municipalities, Vollsmose, Kokkedal, Nivå etc. The numbers speak their distinctive language. For a year, however, we have had knowledge of a significant over-representation of outbreaks of infection among non-western immigrants. Can the Minister understand the frustration of the many Danish children and young people in North Zealand and the metropolitan area who are now not allowed to go to school as contemporaries elsewhere in the country because some in their local area destroy it for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160615	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160616	I can understand that frustration. I myself have two girls who cannot attend school here in Copenhagen, and it is frustrating for them to have to open their computers once again to get online lessons when Dad goes to work. It's frustrating for all families in Denmark who experience this. It's so frustrating. It is just important to make it clear that there are problems and there is a problem with ethnicity when it comes to over-representation of infected and in-patients, but it cannot only be isolated to the purely epidemiological. It can't. There are also super-spreading events in which everyone has been ethnically Danish. There has also been a lot of people who have been involved in the epidemic. It is just important to include in the overall picture of the epidemic in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160700	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next question is addressed to the Minister for Transport and has been asked by Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160721	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160723	What measures does the Minister intend to take to prevent and prevent noise from road traffic?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160737	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160738	Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to say that I am very aware of the noise nuisance caused by living close to motorways. This is a major challenge which exists in many parts of the country, among others. in Greve and Solrød along the Bay of Køge Motorway, and I am aware that in connection with the extension of the motorway noise shields and noise barriers were established and also laid out asphalt to reduce noise. Despite this effort, we also have to recognise, unfortunately, that there are still challenges with noise along the motorway. I can inform you that a significant part of the effort in the area of noise is now being made through the Road Directorate's noise action plans, which are drawn up on the basis of a comprehensive survey of road noise along the entire state road network. The current noise action plan has a couple of years on the back • applies up to 2023 and identifies about 120 particularly noise-laden residential areas with which the Road Directorate has chosen to continue its work. The priority has basically been given to where the most noise reduction can be achieved for the money and where no noise mitigation measures have already been implemented. As a result, residential areas along Køge Bay are not prioritised in the noise action plan. This year, however, the Road Directorate is launching a new noise mapping, which will be the starting point for an updated noise action plan. In December 2020, I informed the Mayor of Greve Municipality that the Vejdirektoratet would like to take part in a meeting with the municipality on the noise problem along the motorway, and so I am interested in finding sensible solutions for those residential areas which, despite the actions taken, remain heavily noise-laden. As the questioner knows, it is my ambition to reach an agreement on a green mobility plan, and I believe that noise reduction must have a broad focus in the plan with several different focus areas, so that action can be more holistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160941	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310160944	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is, of course, very sad for those who live along Køge Bay Motorway in, for example, Greve Municipality, to be told that they are not a priority in the noise action plan that is currently in place. This means that the Minister does not have any concrete initiatives on slipping to prevent the noise problem. I think that is a pity, and I think that is what many of those who live along the motorway and are plagued by noise in everyday life think. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether, in the negotiations to which the Minister intends to call, the Minister wishes to maintain the level of ambition from the traffic plan that was drawn up before the Minister became minister and which, unfortunately, the Minister has torn apart where 1.6 billion was allocated. kr. to combat traffic noise. Now we know that Greve is not on the Minister's priority list right now, but will the Minister at least guarantee that as much money is spent as in the old traffic plan in the traffic plan put forward by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161043	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161044	In short, it can be said that no changes have been made to the noise plan since the previous government, which means that if we follow the thinking expressed here by the questioner, we will at least be sure that under the previous government no noise effort would have been made on that route. I want noise to be included in a broader perspective and that we should think about it in addition to just investing in it. I believe that the necessary funds must be invested for noise interventions, but we must also think wider than that. I hope, of course, that the author's party will join in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161120	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161121	That was a fine answer, which just wasn't really an answer to the question I asked. The old government had an ambition to set aside 1.6 billion. kr. to combat noise nuisances. Does the Minister have an objective of spending just as much money on the fight against noise, or does the Minister intend to downgrade it? It's actually a pretty simple question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161146	In the end, that also depends on what is being given priority in the parties entering the negotiations. I just have to say that I do not in any way imagine that we should be less ambitious when it comes to noise, on the contrary. However, I would just remind the questioner that if that plan had been set up now, at least nothing would have been guaranteed for the citizens living in the area that the questioner is concerned with. So, of course, I hope that the questioner will also discuss this with the Left Transport Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161215	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161216	In the Left, we want to give priority to the fight against noise. That is also why we set aside 1.6 billion. kr., of which there was a lot of free means that could have gone to noise control to the delight of people in Count and Solrød Municipalities. Just to return to Greve Municipality: There you have Denmark's most busy motorway, you have an airport, you have S-trains, and you have a new lane from Ringsted into Copenhagen that makes noise. Is it true that the Minister does not have a single specific initiative in the bag for the citizens of the municipality who are burdened with noise?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161246	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161248	I have already answered that, and it is quite wrong, but it is because Mr. Morten Dahlin doesn't listen to what's being said. I have just ensured that a meeting will be held between the Road Directorate and the County of Greve, so that these questions can be identified in the best possible way, i.e. that in other words there is a greater likelihood that we can actually do something. But, of course, it also requires that there are parties that actually prioritise this here and give it a higher priority. I hope the author's party will take that to the table. But in the end, the questioner must also remember to discuss it with his own group.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161318	Thank you to the author, thank you to the Minister. The next question is addressed to the Minister for Children and Education and has been asked by Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161347	Thank you. The question is: why will the Minister not allow North Jutland high school pupils of the first or second year to return to school when the high schools are still empty as a result of the oldest students writing the exams at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161402	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161403	The Minister will certainly do so, and I hope for clarification tomorrow. We need an opinion from the Epidemic Commission, and I hope it will go home, but we will not know until tomorrow. I hope that will be on the agenda there and otherwise as soon as possible thereafter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161419	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161421	That already sounds very positive, it has to be said. Fortunately, a great deal is happening with the reopening of these times, and on the Left side we are only happy that something is finally happening. But it has been the case that the 3rd Gs have been able to come back, among other things. in North Jutland, and a lot of them came back practically only on Monday. And then it happens that a lot of people are sent back home on Monday, and they do, because they have to go home and write the big srp task, and then what you're thinking is: Why can't another vintage come back in that period? 'Cause the 3rd G's don't come back till after Easter. So my question is really whether one can imagine that a whole year can come back and actually have a whole week at school where they can be allowed to see their classmates again, rather than that they can only be taught one day outside in bad weather etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161525	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161526	Yes, that is certainly what we are hoping for, but, as I said, I need a recommendation from the Epidemic Commission, because that is how the procedure is now in relation to assessing what it will have in terms of the pressure of infection. But yes, I certainly hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161541	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161542	So what I hear the Minister say is that the Minister can also see that when a vintage has been given the opportunity to come back and then they have to go home for a very long period, then it gives a good opportunity for another vintage to come back or something else. It is the case that in North Jutland there have been closed down over several laps. So the children of Northern Jutland have been hit extra hard or young people, it is said.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161610	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161611	I'm sure soon the capital's young people will challenge the Northern Jutlanders on that. For now it changes, and Aarhus was shut down at the beginning after the summer break. Basically, I don't think you should turn this into a competition for who's worst. There have been a great many school closures and they have been spotless, and I think that we want to go to the same place, namely that during the periods when srp or sop is written and schools are empty, we must of course use it if we can get the health authorities' approval of it, and I hope that, as I said, we can do so tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161641	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161643	I look forward to this because in North Jutland there has been closed down for a long time, which means that the first g's have almost only been in school with their class, where they have sat individually in large halls with two metres away. For less than a month or so, they have seen their class together. So they don't know each other. They need to be together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161706	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161707	I have little to add to that, but I can only say that I fully agree with that. After all, it is in every conceivable way really buzzed and especially for those who have started up, and then there are some special issues if you are a senior class. For young people right now, this is a really difficult situation. That is to say, in relation to the gaps that exist, for example. in connection with the srp and sop that the more we can stuff into the cracks and cracks of time, where the students can actually come back and be with their classmates and come to school, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161738	Thank you to the author, thank you to the Minister. The next question has been put to the Minister for Education and Research, and that is what Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left, who needs to be patient for a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161800	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161802	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister intend to open up the possibility of some electives being offered in English in a Danish education without there having to be a corresponding Danish language electives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161819	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310161820	Yeah, I'd love to be a part of that. At the Danish-language business academies and professional bachelor programmes, there are currently limited opportunities to offer courses in English. The existing practice is based on a principle that it must be possible to complete a Danish-language vocational academy education in Danish, and this means that all compulsory subjects must be offered in Danish, and they can then in principle be duplicated to be there in English as well. electives can be offered in English, even without there being a corresponding elective in Danish, as long as there is only the possibility to choose between several electives in Danish. So there are some possibilities today, but they are limited, and soon I will be discussing with the Su-conciliation Group, including with the questioner's own party, how we can reduce the number of English-language training places in order to reduce the Su-expenditure on migrant workers in the agreed Su-ceiling. In this context, of course, I will also look at when we do this exercise, if at the same time there is a need to expand the possibilities for tenders in English in the Danish-language professional and professional Bachelor's degree programmes. It can provide professional value for students, and then it can be a prerequisite for exchange with abroad. What we just need to be aware of is that more English in the Danish-language vocational academy programmes can become a barrier to some of our students from vocational education and training. They will only very rarely be able to meet a requirement for English at B level, which is a prerequisite for example. compulsory courses in English. As a summary of the question put by the questioner, I would like to say: yes, the possibility exists today, but could be extended with benefit, and I expect to look at this in the context of the discussions on reducing English-language education that we have in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162011	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162012	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you to the Minister for the positive hand-out that is available for it. In fact, I am extremely positive about this, because it is no secret that there has been a fear, not least among the academies outside the major university towns, which are very anxious that the savings made in relation to the police conciliation should be translated into, for example, a few years ago. to prohibit English electives. This would, of course, have a very, very negative impact on those courses which already have a very, very tense economy. I also believe that the government, like the Left, has an interest in achieving as wide a range of education as possible, not only in the major university cities, but also in cities such as the United Kingdom. Randers, where I come from, but also other medium-sized Danish cities around the country. So I have taken that criticism, or should we say fear, from education very seriously, and I am actually glad that the Minister is doing so and thus opens the door. I interpret this extremely positively. So I guess the answer is that it's not going to happen, we have to say as a thief at night, some closure of these electives in English, but on the contrary perhaps a helping hand the other way. So it's only positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162124	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162125	I can confirm that the government has an interest in us having educational opportunities across the country. There is an important role for business academies, not least as further training for our vocational training programmes. Having them available throughout the country has a very high value. At the same time, however, I would also like to make it quite clear that the discussions we have in the Council on reducing and reducing the number of English-language courses are a very serious exercise that we will have to carry out, both in order to comply with the su compromise, but also because there are limits to how much money we need to spend on su for foreign labour. Of course, it has to be done in a balance with education coverage across the country, but it will be an exercise that we are going to carry out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162208	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162209	I have full respect for the fact that we must have looked at this in relation to migrant workers and everything else. But especially in the professional academies, there are these elective subjects that are part of their firm economy, and if they do not have them, it will have extremely negative consequences in terms of whether they can offer the number of courses they are doing today. It's just that if you really want higher education outside the major university cities, you really only have the business academies who carry the big part of the burden. That is why we also have to take their fears seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162244	We have to. We need to have a look at this education coverage, but we also need to have a look at whether there are courses across the country, where this has taken precedence and where the students who are on the English-language tenders either sit down at the job center afterwards or actually go home and never become part of the Danish labour market. It hasn't been meant to be. I have also heard the rapporteur's colleague say so in the past. It was never intended to be a Danish educational obligation on behalf of the whole of Europe. That's why this exercise is important, and that's why we're gonna see changes. However, I would like to confirm that the government continues to focus on the balance of these two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162330	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162331	Like everything else in life, it's about balance, so it's positive. That is why I can only say that, on the Left side, it is at least really, really important that the balance is also there in relation to geography, so that, in relation to these higher educations, we also ensure that we do not have to go to one of the various huge university cities, but that we can do so in medium-sized cities, otherwise the far-reaching negative consequences of a Denmark are in balance. But as I started by saying, I do accept the hand-out, and I hope that we can then find some good agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162403	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162404	Thank you. It will be a balance between whole courses in purely English and then supplementing with English elements in the courses we already have. And as far as electives are concerned, I would like to confirm what I started by saying, namely that we are going to reduce the level of education that is 100%. is in English, but in the same exercise I will help to see if we can open up further to, for example. electives in English.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162425	Thank you to the author, thank you to the Minister. The next question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and has been asked by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs from the Left. Enquiries are sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, also from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162446	Thank you very much. What is the Minister's view that, in relation to conflict-affected companies, there is a breach of the principle of equality when the Danish Business Authority pays compensation for wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162459	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162501	Thank you very much, President, and also thank you to the author for the question. Authorities, including the Danish Business Administration, must, when compensation is paid, of course, manage on a legal basis and comply with the principle of equality in the administration of the rules. As the case has been brought to my attention, I am inclined not to agree with the premise that, in relation to companies affected by the conflict, there should be a breach of the principle of equality when the Danish Business Authority pays compensation. As the questioner knows, the Danish Business Administration has previously explained the handling of payments to companies affected by professional conflict. The report showed that the proceedings were suspended in the case of applications from companies in which the Danish Business Authority was aware that they were affected by professional conflict and, as the legal basis was fully identified, the proceedings were resumed. This has been done on an objective basis, with due regard for the principle of equality. Since 29 May 2020, there have been rules which prevent employees in job categories covered by professional conflict from being covered by the scheme. The rules follow the full principle of neutrality and were implemented for applications received after the issuing of the Order of 29 May 2020. In the course of the application, companies must declare whether or not they have employees in job categories covered by the main trade dispute in which the company is a party. Erhvervsstyrelsen bases the company's statements on the prepayment of wage compensation, and if during the compensation period a company has employees in job categories covered by professional conflict, the company's final compensation will be adjusted for post-control purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162649	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162651	Thank you very much for your answer. As the Minister is aware, we discussed issues relating to wage compensation schemes when a conflict has been announced against companies. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that we in the Left have nodded to wage compensation schemes in order to hold hands under Danish jobs. Therefore, it was, of course, completely unsatisfactory and unacceptable to hear about the administration or administration of the rules that the Minister, together with the Danish Business Authority, stood for in the spring. Because, among other things, it's... It was discovered by the Left that there was actually discrimination between a number of companies, without there being any legal basis for it, then the Minister again issued a decree at the end of May, that is correct. But what makes me ask the question today is that I took note of the fact that, in mid-February, a representative of 3F on the Danish Radio stressed that he knew that it was only the company which was also the subject of the discussions in the spring, namely Jensen's Bøfhus, which is excluded from being able to obtain compensation for wages because there is a legal conflict with the company. That then makes me ask the question today in the light of it. If you go to the Ministry of Employment's website, you can see the list of companies where conflict has been announced. And since 3F of Denmark's Radio can point out that it is known to them alone that it is one company which is excluded from receiving compensation for wages, I raise the question here: how does the Minister ensure that the principle of equality is respected in relation to the administration and payment of the compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162907	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162908	Well, thank you for the follow-up question here. I have not heard the radio broadcast in question, and it really does not matter, because what has been said here is being reproduced. I am basing myself on this, and I believe that this applies to all authorities in their case-law... that the Danish Business Administration, when paying compensation for wages, also ensures that the principle of equality is respected. And as it is enlightened to me, I have no reason to believe otherwise. So if there are teams in any of what has been said on Denmark's Radio, then of course that is something we will have investigated. But I have no reason to believe that there should be no respect for the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162951	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310162952	But I would just like to take this opportunity to invite the Minister to check. If we are to rely on the information I received in the spring through the Minister for Employment, there are, overall, in the order of 600 companies which are on the list of companies with conflicts of interest, i.e. in fact companies which, according to the change of announcement issued by the Minister in May, would not be covered by the wage compensation schemes. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163030	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163031	I am not aware of the scope of the list and how many companies are included. But whether it is few or many, the principle of equality must be respected when our authorities manage, and this also applies to the Danish Business Authority. As the case has been brought to my attention, I have no reason to believe that there should be no fulfillment of it. But when the questioner raises it, we will, of course, check whether there are any problems. I hope there isn't, I don't expect there to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163100	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163115	After this art break, we return to the Minister. Well, basically what comes out today is quite interesting. We have had the opportunity to discuss this issue repeatedly with the Minister for Employment, but also with the Minister for Industry, and it is the Minister for Industry who is responsible for it. I also recognise that today the Minister for Business says that he must find out whether the Danish Business Administration has provided incorrect information. But perhaps you could have imagined that the Minister for Industry was actually prepared for this discussion, because after all it is a matter that has been going on for a long time. What is quite strange and basically actually a real scandal is that it appears from the papers you can see and which are publicly available that there is discrimination, so that there is one company that is blacklisted and that others who are affected and affected by conflict are paid compensation for wages. Therefore, I think the Minister should be quite clear about when to expect this illegal administration from the Danish Business Administration not to be carried out and what consequences it should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163220	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163221	I'm afraid I'll be able to repeat myself on my own. I would like to make it clear that it is important for me as Minister of Business that the Danish Business Authority is also applicable to all public authorities, but now I am responsible for the Danish Business Authority of course managing on the basis of the principle of equality, which is at the heart of the issue here. I have no reason to believe that this should not happen. But information is being brought out, and something has been said in radio broadcasts, and some things have been put on some websites, and of course I ask the Danish Business Authority to follow up on that. Because I do not think we should be in a place where one can be in doubt as to whether one company should be blacklisted, to which the questioner refers here. I have no interest in that, and that is not in line with the principle of equality if we work in this way. So I do not suppose that is the case, but I will of course have it examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163318	We'll sign for that. I was hoping that it would have been possible to get a more comprehensive answer today. But when will you expect this to be investigated? Because the truth is that we have had these discussions for a long time. I believe that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs from the Left has almost already done the case before the Danish Business Administration, and there has also been good help from others. Basically, what is now being coiled is a real scandal, namely that there are companies which, if you may say so, are experiencing a different procedure according to their name.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163355	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163356	Well, of course I'll get that started right away. I have not heard the radio broadcast on the Danish Radio referred to. With all due respect to the good Danish trade union movement, it must of course be verified what may come from statements themselves on their part in a radio broadcast. So now I know what this is about, and I assume that some people are already listening and have started, but otherwise they will be asked to do so when I get back to the office.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163424	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163430	Well, thank you for that, so the Minister will go home and have it verified. As a politician, I'm just wondering if it hasn't puzzled the Minister. We now have among others. in several consultations discussed that there is this list over here by the colleague, the Minister for Employment, STAR, where there is a list of approximately 400-600 companies. However, only one company in the public domain has stated that it has been affected by this discrimination. Has the Minister not at all stumbled over the fact that there may have been discrimination here and that it has only been based on the name of the undertaking concerned and that it has not been managed on the basis of the principle of equality? Hasn't the Minister, as a politician, ever stooped over it? At least I have, I can say. And I was then confirmed when I heard the radio broadcast with the representative of 3F.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163539	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163540	As the questioner knows, I have had several occasions over the last little year to look at it, which is why I have of course also been very aware of the need for proper management, and also that there has been a discussion, as I think I explained at the last consultation, of a dialogue between the specific restaurant chain and the Danish Business Authority to find a solution. I have not been informed of what the solution has ended up with, so I have taken the view that a workable solution had been found. Now information is coming out today, and of course we need to check it out. I think it is only good that it is taken up again, and then we have to get back on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163620	Thank you, Minister. Thank you to the authors. That's by Mr. Keating. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163636	What does the Minister think that the ambition of the City of Copenhagen to drastically reduce the number of alcohol serving appropriations after midnight will mean for the Minister's initiative • Comeback Copenhagen • which aims to re-travel the catering and tourism industry in Copenhagen after the corona closure?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163659	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163700	Thank you, President, and thank you for the question. I think that's what you call a good question. There is no doubt at least in my world that tourism in the capital is really, really hard hit by the corona crisis. Therefore, I am also pleased that the Ministry of Business, the City of Copenhagen and Wonderful Copenhagen were able to launch a joint recovery plan for tourism in the capital at the end of February, and that is the plan called Comeback Copenhagen, because it is important that Danish tourism and our good, strong capital have a comeback when we are out of this crisis. The aim of the plan is to prepare the capital and the industry for a time when tourists will return and to help the capital become equipped to maintain its international market position. Among other things, it has to be done. This is the case with the promotion of the capital when the markets open. It is to attract both international and Danish guests. At the same time, the plan must boost the necessary conversion of tourism and cultural life, so that they face a new competitive situation and help to make the maximum of the conferences and events coming to Copenhagen. Like the questioner, of course, I have also noticed that in the City of Copenhagen there are some discussions on a draft new restaurant and nightlife plan, which among other things. proposes a more restrictive practice for the granting of night permits. In relation to the draft that has been published, it is important for me to stress that the issue of night permits and appropriations is a municipal issue. I think it is important in general terms, and I would just like to emphasise this again here today, that we support the Danish restaurant life, as it is particularly hard hit by the consequences of corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163852	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310163853	It is certainly a municipal matter how many alcohol credits there must be in certain areas of the city. But now that the Minister has been in discussions with the City of Copenhagen and has said that he is willing to pull 70 million. kr. out of the Treasury to help e.g. The restaurant environment and the restaurant industry in Copenhagen, has the Minister been told by the City of Copenhagen that the municipality, with a Social Democratic mayor in the lead, intends to go the opposite way, that is to say, to shut down the places that can serve alcohol after midnight? It is simply intended to remove the appropriation from them, because it is not just about the allocation of new appropriations. It is about the fact that when the appropriation is due to expire in the places which already have an appropriation, it must not be renewable in some cases. This means that the restorations which are currently facing severe economic problems as a result of the government's decommissioning of Denmark cannot even go out into the financial world and borrow money or make their own money available in anticipation of the money being borrowed being made available in the years to come, because the municipality has simply questioned whether the places will be reallocated. The question is therefore: now that the minister has been in negotiations with the municipality, where one opens up and decides that the municipality should have asked 70 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. There must have been some communication between the Social Democratic Minister and the Social Democratic regime in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164044	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164046	Now we have made an ambitious plan to market our capital, attract tourists and switch the professions in the capital to the time that comes for corona. I'm glad. I think that Comeback Copenhagen is a very good plan. I think it's doing the right thing. I think there are many good reasons why, when we come to the municipal elections later this year, we should choose Sophie Hæstrup Andersen as the mayor of the city. One of them is her view of this particular proposal. I would like to stress that this is a municipal matter, but in terms of attitude I can say that I think you could play better ball up the Comeback Copenhagen and the plan for catering in Copenhagen than this proposal in its draft does.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164134	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164135	After all, it is wise of the Minister to say that the Social Democrats are now putting forward another candidate for the mayor, who is not in the citizens' representation today and who is not the mayor of today and is not part of the citizens' representation group we have today. But this plan has to be adopted in August-September, i.e. 4-5 months before Sophie Hæstrup Andersen may be elected Mayor of Copenhagen for Social Democracy. In other words, the damage has been done if the municipality adopts a policy in the autumn which, from New Year's onwards, will result in the removal of appropriations from these restaurants.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164215	I think it has been seen before in the history of Denmark that one should have views on past decisions. The mayor's candidate must also, of course, become the mayor. I just stress here that it is a municipal matter, it is a draft that has been submitted for consultation. The government wants to strengthen the restaurant and tourism industry and the experience economy in our capital. A good plan has now been put forward to do so, and I hope that all players will play together to make that plan get the most wind in the sails for this very part of our business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164247	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164249	Well, I fully agree that this is a municipal matter, but it is a state matter whether the Minister should give 70 million. kr. to •Comeback Copenhagen • Comeback Copenhagen • Comeback Copenhagen • Comeback Copenhagen And then the question is: why has the Minister not made a claim as a condition for the State to pay 70 million? kr. that the municipality then does not pull in the opposite direction and starts to shut down the tourism and catering industry in Copenhagen? Did the Minister know this was coming, and yet he said, "Well, I'll give you 70 million." kr., although you in the municipality will pursue a policy that draws in the opposite direction to what the 70 million. kr. Got to go to?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164323	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164325	Well, I hadn't even heard anything about this nightlife game before it was launched. But I also ask myself a little bit about what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen launches here would be the right approach. Because should you hold back money to strengthen our capital's tourism, café life, restaurant life and experience economy because there is a draft decision in the citizens' representation? I do not think so, and now let us see how the decision ends. By August, we still need our capital to get back on its feet, and we need to make an important contribution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164404	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Industry, and that is what Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164421	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister believe that the Danish Business Authority has done enough to ensure that no difference is made between similar cases when the Danish Business Authority advises and deals with applications for compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164434	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164436	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you for your question. I would like to begin by pointing out that the Danish Business Administration must provide guidance and therefore not advise companies in relation to applications or other requests concerning compensation for wages. With that said, it is my general view that the Danish Business Authority has implemented sensible guidelines in relation to the guidance of companies in relation to requests for compensation for wages. As Erhvervsstyrelsen has previously described in its report on the handling and payment of wage compensation to companies subject to professional conflict, the Danish Agency has instructed telephone workers and case managers on several occasions not to process applications over the phone. The Ministry invites companies to submit an application for compensation. This is an example of measures being taken to ensure that companies have their application dealt with in accordance with the applicable rules and on equal terms. And this naturally leads me on to the second part of the question concerning the handling of applications by the Danish Business Administration. It is my view that the Danish Business Authority deals with all applications for compensation in accordance with the applicable rules. The rules are laid down by notice on the basis of tripartite agreements and records. I believe that a sensible model has been established in the wage compensation scheme, whereby companies submit applications and receive compensation, whereby a post-clearance check is carried out in connection with the final settlement, and I believe that, overall, the wage compensation scheme is robust and secures the legal position of companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164613	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164614	Thank you for your answer. This is after all in the wake of a series of consultations held in the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee on an issue which has the consequence that payment of compensation for wages was previously refused, despite the fact that there was no legal basis for this discrimination. We then had some consultation to agree with, and there it was of course very important for the government to ensure that there was a legal basis for the desire to respect the principle of equality and respect for conflicts. It is then just strange to see what I think you can do if you look at some of the companies that have been given and who then appears from the lists that there is extremely likely that these are companies which are included in the list, which the Minister of Employment has also referred to, and which the Danish Labour Market and Recruitment Agency collects on a regular basis in relation to the companies that are involved in a conflict. Therefore, the question whether the Minister considers that sufficient action has been taken to ensure that companies affected by conflict are not paid out. When there is a list of conflict-affected companies, can the Minister confirm or deny today that the Danish Business Authority cross-checks applications against that list so that there is a guarantee that the decree issued by the Minister of Business and that no pay compensation may be paid to companies that are subject to conflict is complied with? Or was it just a statement of intent in the consultations? For now we see what has been heard both in radio broadcasts and when you listen to the water pipes that there are companies that are affected by conflict that have been paid compensation for wages. How, then, has the Minister ensured that the change of order made by the Minister will also be implemented in the administration of the Danish Business Authority?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164821	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164822	I always base myself, and I think the questioner would do the same in my place, that when announcements are made, they are also the ones our authorities are working for. And, as I have also indicated to the co-questioner who is about to come up, statements have now been made from a radio broadcast which I had not heard and which raises some questions which the questioner also raises here, and we will of course have that investigated. It is important for me to stress that, in line with other authorities, the Danish Business Authority must of course deal with matters in accordance with the principle of equality. I do not have the basis for any other assessment than that they do, but now some questions have been raised and we will have it examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164904	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164906	Well, I'm a little puzzled if there's a clear instruction that if a company is involved in a conflict, there can be no guidance on an application. However, in the case of applications, the fact that this is a conflicting company can obviously be ignored. And I would just like to ask whether the Minister believes that this is a sufficient safeguard in relation to the change of order that we discussed in detail in the Finance Committee when the Minister has not ensured that the Danish Business Administration cross-checks the payments with the list of conflict-affected companies; otherwise we end up in this absurd situation where a 3F trusted man says: Ahr, but it is only one company that is blacklisted, but others can get.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164946	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310164948	Care must always be taken to make a single person, regardless of whether he is in the honorable position of being a shop steward, a witness of truth. But now it's been raised and it needs to be checked. I always think that our Business Administration, in line with all the other agencies, complies with the law, complies with the principle of equality. I think we should be able to expect that. It has now been called into question, and we will, of course, have it further examined, and I would like to offer that the three authors who have so far been on this subject will, of course, be told directly when it has been examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165026	Thank you. Then it is co-questioner Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165041	Thank you. Once again, thank you to the Minister for the commitment to go home and check this out. I understand if it is a disgrace, if I may now use a Jysk expression, for the Minister to stand here and answer something that the Minister has not been dressed to be able to answer fairly enough. That is why I am thinking of my question as being more of an attitude. If it turns out that this is the case, as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen suggests that this is only one company which has been blacklisted and cannot be covered by wage compensation schemes, will the Minister intervene and make a favourable decision so that that company will, of course, receive wage compensation with a backward effect, so that there is equality with other companies in conflict?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165137	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165139	I mean, I'm no different from the fact that if mistakes are made, they have to be corrected and how we fix them if mistakes have been made because we don't yet know if there is, I think the Danish Business Authority should be given the opportunity to explain that we have to find out. We need to figure out a way to solve this. At least that's how I see things. There can be mistakes, I really hope that is not the case here, and if that has happened, then we must get it corrected, and how must we look at when we know the extent of the matter and its outcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165212	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165213	But there are two options. If this is the case, as is at least suggested in P1 by a representative of 3F, and as it is also reported on the water pipes around us that there are companies which have received compensation for wages, despite being subject to a notified conflict, there are, like two options: you can ask them to repay, or you can give the company which has not been covered by the wage compensation schemes, wage compensation with backward effect. Is it not true that there are, like the two possibilities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165252	I don't think I should be completely committed to that. I need to see this case thoroughly clarified. Unfortunately, I had not heard P1 that day, because then it might be that I had started an investigation myself, but now the authors bring it up, and then we will have it examined, and then I think we will probably have a good dialogue when we get an answer to it. And as I say: Try to hear, if mistakes have been made, they have to be corrected. It's not different. We must administer according to the principle of equality and the rules and regulations that apply. So let's see what comes out of it. I'll keep the three questioners informed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165331	Then there is one more question for Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165346	This is, of course, a good example of the fact that people's rule and public health are not opposites. This may sometimes take a little extra time, but the decisions still have to be taken with hangings in the people's regime. That's what this whole case has been about. In other words, has there been an administration which has not been suspended in notices and has there been a uniform treatment of similar undertakings? This is also a competition situation, because if there are two companies in the same situation but where one can, and the other cannot, cause some problems. It's not like this kind of business doesn't have enough challenges. However, I acknowledge that the Minister is going home to investigate the matter, because I think that these are some very serious criticisms that have been raised and that they deserve to be examined in depth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165434	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165435	I agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165440	So we thank the Minister for Industry and thank the authors. The next question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and has been asked by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165501	Thank you. What is the Minister's position and here I almost came to say the Prime Minister's position, because this question should have been asked about the increased coronasmite in immigrant tongue areas such as Vollsmose and other ghettos, and how does the Minister think we should get rid of the coronasmite in immigrant environments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165521	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165523	Thank you for the question. It is undoubtedly worrying when we see urban areas where the infection with corona is widespread. This is worrying for the citizens affected, for the surrounding urban areas and municipalities and for society as a whole. Covid-19, as you know, costs lives, puts pressure on our hospital services and shuts down large parts of the economy. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that local corona outbreaks be contained as soon as possible, regardless of what they are caused by. Here, massive testing is an effective tool that can prevent the infection from taking further action. Isolation, if you have been infected, is also important, as is the use of protective equipment and respect for the guidelines of the authorities in general. The Coronapandemic has been going on for a year now, and we can see that there is still much more infection among some immigrants and descendants than among all others. This is a worldwide pandemic covered by the media around the world, so there can hardly be anyone who has not discovered that we have an infectious virus in circulation, even if one may not fully understand the Danish language. The authorities are working intensively on local and national measures to stem the problem. The Danish Health Authority adjusts up, among other things: its communication on the need for self-isolation, prepares campaign initiatives for festivals such as: Ramadan, and several different religions are now also involved in an effort to inform about vaccination efforts. In advance, material has been translated into a lot of languages and established a hotline in 12 different languages. In addition, seek-out detection has been initiated, where you are completely out knocking on doors when the infection flares up especially in individual areas, to ensure that people come out the door and are tested. But after all that has been said, the authorities can knock on doors and translate material from here to Christmas Eve. In the end, it is not society's responsibility, it is the responsibility of the individual to comply with the recommendations of the authorities, and I would therefore also urge everyone to shoulder that responsibility. We owe each other that no matter where we are or where we come from. There are no excuses for antisocial behavior. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165735	Thank you. But my question was actually to the Prime Minister, and that is also why I was choking a little bit in the title. After all, the Prime Minister has been very popular on Facebook and Instagram and elsewhere from where the Prime Minister is addressing himself in relation to the particular infection coming from Vollsmose. But I just have to say that it is also in very many other ghetto areas in Denmark, including in different schools where there is a very, very high concentration of people with other ethnic background that the infection is really flourishing. I think that in these times, when we're all getting very thin because of this covid-19 situation, it's totally, totally grotesque that there's a group in our society that absolutely doesn't show a social mind. Well, I'm talking about the word that has become the word of the year and that the Prime Minister launched. There I am simply so sorry, annoyed and worse that there is a relatively large group of people, in fact it is almost a quarter who are spreading this infection to the rest of us, who in many cases are trying to be careful. I must remind you that there are also Danes who do not accept this and do not respect it, but the problem is primarily in the immigrant groups that have a completely different attitude. So I just have to ask the Minister: does the Minister think that all the citizens of the country are showing a social spirit, from the perspective that the infection, for example, is contagious? among the citizens of Kolding, in the West region, in Kokkedal, Ishøj and not least Vollsmose are particularly tall and have therefore just originated in the areas where immigrants are in the majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165914	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165917	Not everyone is showing a social mind, but I think we can say that the vast majority, both those of Danish origin and those of foreign origin, are showing a social mind. I also think that the situation in Vollsmose shows that housing companies, municipalities and health authorities are able to have several thousand people tested in a relatively short time after all. However, it would also be strange if the general problems we have with parallel societies and integration challenges were cancelled in the current situation. Of course it's a part of it too. I don't believe in the fact that it's just because everyone drives a cab and lives close together, many people in an apartment. This is also, of course, due to the fact that we have integration challenges in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165957	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310165958	I just have to ask the Minister: what do we do now? So, I am very, very sorry that the initiative of the government and the Minister for Health on forced testing was rejected. Now I think it was a rather strange word, because you sense that people should be put in leglocks and handcuffs and put something up their noses or anywhere else, and that's not very nice. But forced testing is really just an injunction that can result in a fine if you do not go into isolation after you have tested positive. What will the Minister do? I am deeply distressed that the Left, Conservatives and, above all, the New Citizens were unable to accept the Minister's proposals. I don't get it. The Danish People's Party supported it, but there was no majority. What is the Minister going to put in his place?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170041	It is true that the government and the Danish People's Party ended up in a minority. But I think it's the way we're gonna do anything. We work 7 days a week, day and night, and we will provide test capacity, we will knock on doors, we will follow the detection closely, we will test in day care institutions and schools and see how the infection develops. We are doing everything we can at all, and we will continue to do so, and we will gladly translate material, but that is not the problem. It is not because the authorities do not carry out their duties that we see these challenges. I am also a little tired of constantly hearing that it is society's fault and that it is because we have not involved one or the other minority. Well, we live 6 million people in this country; we know what's going on. It is up to people themselves to live up to the recommendations that come, and then we will make sure that the tools are available. But we can't force people to go down to be tested or to isolate themselves. It is based on volunteering in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170132	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170133	No, but perhaps you could do what you did in North Jutland, as there was an infection in connection with the mink situation. That's where North Jutland was shut down. It wasn't very nice for the North Jutlanders, but it worked. Well, you made it work. Don't you dare do that in the ghetto areas? Because the problem with knocking on doors is that many doors are not opened. There is also an intolerable behavior to the authorities many times. But one could simply say: we are now shutting down this area, as was done with North Jutland, for a period of time. Could we not imagine those initiatives in the ghetto regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170207	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170208	Well, I've also been discussing these things with the Minister of Health, and we're one hundred and ten percent in agreement. There is no fear of contact with any particular residential area. There won't be. This is about one thing: shutting down the epidemic. I would also like to say: who pays the biggest price at the moment if you take Vollsmose as an example? After all, it is the children from the two primary schools in the area who have been sent home after just starting again. So for those who behave antisocially, do not allow themselves to be tested, do not isolate themselves and do not help to detect infection, I would say that it is actually the children and local entrepreneurs who pay the biggest price, and I think people should think about that too. It is their immediate surroundings that pay the biggest price when we do not manage the epidemic properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170248	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The next question is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and it is the same question, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170258	Does the Minister agree that the widespread coronasmite among non-Western immigrants is primarily due to cultural conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170305	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170305-2	Thank you and thank you for the question. We have no scientific basis at this stage to say that the particularly high level of infection among immigrants and descendants is primarily due to cultural conditions, but unfortunately we can see a fairly clear over-representation of infected people with ethnic origins other than Danish, especially among non-Western citizens. Some of the explanation may be related to social conditions • how close one lives together, and whether one has a work with contact with many different kinds of people • and other explanations can easily be linked to traditions or family patterns, i.e. more cultural relationships. There may be various factors behind high local outbreaks of infection. In Kolding, for example, there were... talk about schools and institutions. Therefore, the authorities also have a special focus on the areas where the problems arise. And then, since the pandemic broke out last year, there has been a very great focus from the authorities on targeted informing citizens with foreign backgrounds about the covid-19. So everyone should eventually know about corona at this time and know how important it is that everyone, regardless of their background, and wherever you live, make an effort to get rid of it. I would therefore also like to reiterate my strong call for everyone to shoulder their responsibilities and for everyone to make an effort and follow the guidelines, because we owe each other that regardless of who we are and where we come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170424	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170427	Thank you. Everyone has to live up to their responsibilities, yes, but the Minister is not answering me and I am going back a little to the first question whether there is a possibility of simply shutting down. We talk a lot about opening up, and that's a good thing. We are all looking forward to that. But there are certain areas where you could say shut down, and that is among other things. In the ghettos. I think that this is the only means left, the only thing we can do. The Minister is not answering that question, and I would like an answer to that. Now all I have to say is that it is not an epidemic that only houses Denmark. It houses all over the world. And we know very well that in the ghetto areas you have dishes so you can see Al Jazeera, and you know very well that it is flourishing all over the world. You can see that you wear muzzles elsewhere and that there are deaths and terrible conditions, in fact worse than those we have in Denmark. That's what you should take with you. And that is what I do not understand, and that is why I say that unfortunately there are many immigrants in the ghetto areas who care about Danish rules and are completely indifferent. And it's just so upsetting. There we have a government that says this: okay, that is to say, and doesn't really want to answer that question about shutting down. I believe that these areas should be closed down. I think you should. Whether it should be with numerous police, or what I know, because it is not certain that you will comply with the rules you do not want to comply with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170554	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170556	I think it is part of the discussion that the vast majority, both with Danish and foreign backgrounds, comply with the guidelines, allow themselves to be tested if needed, and go into isolation if needed. That's the most important weapon we have. The vast majority play along. But it is true that there is too large a minority that does not, and that is a problem, because just one who doesn't care, then the infection is still in the rise, and then it is less important that the rest of the rise does what they should.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170630	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170631	Yes, yes, but now the Minister again spent time telling us that there are very many people in our society who are doing it really, really well. Yeah, why don't we just agree on that? There is. That's not what I'm asking you today. I'm asking about those who don't do so well. We don't have to be so spacious all the time. We might as well get to grips with the problems. I just have to say that the authorities in Denmark recommend that we see each other as few as possible. How many of us haven't canceled an amazing birthday for a 5-, 6-, 7-year-old who doesn't really understand that you cancel because you're only allowed to be five? You don't do that in immigrant environments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170705	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170706	That's the last thing I want to arrest. Many people pay a cost; it applies to both Danish and foreign origins. It is not to ignore the fact that there are problems, nor do the challenges of integration play a part in this challenge. But I promised an answer to that by shutting down local communities. We have to get away from the fact that the entire Danish society is shut down in the way we have seen here over the winter, but we may not get rid of the disease for the time being. We are going to see, unfortunately, local outbreaks here and there, as we have seen in Kokkedal, Kolding, Vollsmose and elsewhere, and there will be a need to be able to shut down intensively, quickly and effectively in local communities. As a government, we are ready to do whatever it takes to shut down. The questioner referred earlier to some debates where one of our proposals was swept off the table, but we are by no means concerned because the whole of society will pay the price if there is a local community that does not carry out its task.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170801	It may indeed upset me that there have been some blue parties that have been afraid of touch. Shame on them... Left, Conservative and New Citizen. I do not think we can afford to be against proposals at this time which might work. But I just have to say that family patterns are different in immigrant families. As I say, we're careful. The definition of the immediate family by immigrant families does not really exist. For them, the whole family is family, that is. mother, father, son, daughter, cousin, aunt, uncle, grandparents, cousin's wife, mother's sister's children, spouses etc. etc. So, there are other traditions, other family traditions that still live on, unfortunately also during a covid-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170843	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170844	I think the questioner is actually right about that. That is also one of the things I started by saying. We do not really know anything, at least not what I can see in the public debate. There aren't really any experts who have looked into this in a proper way. I can see that there are plenty of claims about everything but not really a solid scientific basis to say why we see such a strong over-representation among non-western immigrants among the infected. So it can only be guesswork. But I wouldn't be surprised myself if, among other things, some of the family patterns where people are, some would say very social, meet across generations, eat together, also have had a negative impact, and that someone who has had a job and got infected with home can infect the whole family. That is also why I, at least to those I know, always say: Now try to keep the circle small, also for your own family's sake, so that we do not get too violent chains of infection if you carry the covid-19 into the family.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310170937	Thank you to the author, thank you to the Minister. Can I ask Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard just tossed off the platform for the next question? Pia Kjærsgaard We must comply with the recommendations, that is absolutely right). Thank you. The next question is to the Minister for Employment, and that is what Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171015	Thank you, President. Now a little technical lubrication comes first, and I'll explain it a little better. What is the Minister's view that the recently concluded agreement on corona heroes contains a trust-based belief and law-model, whereby citizens are simply exempted, in whole or in part, from the offsetting of additional income, even if both frozen holiday money and corona hero's extra work are recorded and taxed as quite ordinary income, which is the basis for other authorities' calculations, and is the opt-out roll-back not just a political desire when there is no earlier in technical material, consultation answers, etc. Are any authorities, such as the tax administration or Payout Denmark, who have refused to be able to ensure the roll-back of the set-off, and shortly thereafter there will be a political adoption of a simple and trust-based belief and law-solution model via corona heroes for the family of the hour-payer who has experienced set-off, and for a large part this is a set-off of both coronamer work and holiday money?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171127	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171129	Thank you. I understand the desire that the payment of holiday funds should not affect payment of benefits, and this is also the case for the majority of beneficiaries. However, I would like to stress that these are two different issues where the possibilities of correcting for deduction of benefits differ greatly. Disbursements in connection with the payment of holiday allowances relate to a wide range of different public benefits for a larger group of employees and their households and not only to pensions, as is the case with the Coronahellets. A specific pre-tax pre-tax payment for both the individual employee and his household will have to be identified for the holiday money payment for 2019 and 2020, and that amount is very difficult to identify, both for the paying authority and for the citizen himself. In addition, 2019 is a completed tax year. In addition, a holiday allowance cannot necessarily be identified because it appears as part of a total wage income. The corona-related wage income will be relatively transparent to identify for the individual citizen on his pay slip in the given month, in which the citizen knows that he has worked extra because of corona. In addition, these are corona-related income in 2020 and 2021, which will be dealt with in the context of future post-regulation of the pension, i.e.: that benefits which have been finally paid and which may affect other social benefits should they be changed should they not be re-regulated. It has been known throughout the process that the protection against deduction will only apply to the payment and not to the payment of holiday funds. It is therefore a choice that we have made together and which is based on the fact that it will be associated with high administrative and financial costs, without us being able to be sure that people will ultimately get the correct amount back. There is even a risk that some people will have to get money out of their pockets again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171339	Thank you, Minister. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171342	It was a long and technical answer to a long and technical question, so I wanted to ask myself that. If I have to bring it down to the ground, I would say that the government and some parties have agreed that the partners of the so-called corona heroes, i.e. those with whom they are married, should not be set off when the coronahelts are working overtime. What I cannot understand then is that it is quite the same model that would be used to calculate how to prevent 60 000 better halves from being set off when their working spouse is paid holiday allowances. After all, both could be dealt with by a declaration of faith and law. And when it comes to counting back in time, you can reopen a calendar year. So, you can do that, and we do that with pensions, when pensions are messed up; five years remain to be counted. So how can the Minister explain what the crucial differences are in calculating it for the coronahellets and for those who need to get their holiday money?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171502	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171504	First of all, I would like to say that it has been agreed and that it has also been fulfilled by the agreement that you will not be set off when you receive your holiday money. Where the problem has been all the way through and, as we also discussed when we concluded the agreement, there are some who have been taxed at the time of payment when the holiday money has been frozen. And what makes the extra complicated that I tried to explain before in a long and technical way, as Mr. Torsten Gejl also said that, firstly, it is a completed tax year in 2019 and, secondly, it is all sorts of income other than ordinary income.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171546	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171547	Yeah, and there's enough, I find it hard to see that there should be such a big difference. It is as if for the coronahelts it was relatively simple, but for those who were not supposed to have set off holiday money, a partner's holiday money, it was completely and totally complicated. Who's saying it's so incredibly difficult? Is it the tax administration, or is it the Payout Denmark? Where does that information come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171613	Thank you. After all, we have together and it is very important for me to emphasise both to Mr. Torsten Gejl, but in a similar way to all those who are interested in this with good reason and quite frankly, together with the contract circle, in the official work and the authorities, tried to find manageable solutions to this problem. However, the reason why, even when we reached the agreement, we said that the only place where we could guarantee that a set-off could be prevented was at the time of payment, and not at the time of payment, was that it was very, very technical and very, very complicated. And we must recognize that it has not been possible to find a manageable model.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171657	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171657-2	We ourselves are in the agreement where, unfortunately, there were 60 000 families who could not get their holiday money. That is not fair, and we must, of course, work to make it fair if that is possible, and there it is just that we cannot understand the difference. The Minister is talking about a whole lot of circumstances which are not described here and which we must then come back and ask about. Because you can go back to the calendar year model and find solutions to pay people's pension when it is rooted in it. Then why can't you go back and find out about the holiday money?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171735	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171736	What we have always said cannot be done is to find an automated solution, which means that all cases where benefits for either the citizen or the citizen's household may have been affected will have to be calculated manually. This means that we are dealing with a much larger group, which has to be made very complex calculations back in time, and it is both very costly, both economically and administratively, and this, in fact, also poses a certain risk to the individual for each citizen to get rid of money rather than to get money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171813	We thank the Minister for Employment and thank him. Torsten Gejl. The next question is Mr. Carl Valentin, who addressed a question to the Minister for the Environment. And now I didn't get to see if Mr. Torsten Gejl got cleaned up after him, if I may say so, and I'll have to ask for that. Torsten Gejl Sorry, President). It's okay. I'm here, among other things. For the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171850	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171853	Thank you for the floor. My question is really quite simple: what does the Minister intend to do about every year being burned 677 tonnes of new and unused clothes in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171906	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310171907	Thank you for the question. I understand the questioner is asking about that. I believe that we share the same frustration when we see that the production of clothing and textiles is both a very polluting industry, but also an industry that has a great impact on the environment and climate. So we have to get away from the use and throw away culture of which a large part of the fashion industry has been marked, and switch to more sustainable production and more sustainable consumption. In general, too much clothing is wasted before it has been used at all, and it is neither sustainable nor responsible. If companies are not able to sell the clothes themselves, they should, as far as possible, ensure that it is passed on, for example. by recycling or donation. The fact that companies have a practice in which they send clothes that they cannot sell directly to incineration is therefore contrary to the waste rules. When companies choose to dispose of surplus goods, they are among other things: also unused clothing then it is waste and therefore the goods must be handled according to the garbage rules. This means that companies have a duty to sort out the part of their waste suitable for material recovery translated: recycling and this also applies to textile waste. That is why it is already prohibited to send waste to incineration today if, for example, it does so. recyclable. Alongside what we see here is the problem, we are working on it, and that is among other things. together with SF • to improve waste management with companies, where we among other things. look at how to tighten up the reception controls on the country's incineration plants. It must ensure that recyclable waste such as unused clothing is not incinerated. So we can do something, and that is one of the things we will have to negotiate later this year. But it is, I think, also a clear call from both the questioner and myself and from the Danish Parliament today that you should of course not burn clothes that can be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172104	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172106	Thank you for that answer. I am glad that this agenda is taken so seriously. Recently, there was a large article in the scientific journal 'Nature', which estimates that dizzying 10%. of humanity's total CO2 The reason why I am now asking this question is, in fact, that there is a huge campaign going on from SF Youth, of which I am also a member, where we are focusing on the fashion industry and the textile industry and this fixed fashion and the huge waste of resources that is involved. The minister talks a little about this with a use and throw away culture, and now I'm standing here in a recycled shirt myself, and that's very nice, and I think there's a lot of people trying to break up with this use and throw away culture. And we can try to do something ourselves in everyday life, and I know there are many who do, but the problem for me is structural too. Well, we don't just have a use and throw away culture, but we also have a use and throw away economy that individuals can't just take up a fight with. We just can't step out of this system where companies systematically overproduce clothes and burn it off again. So what I would like to hear was in fact: what will the Minister for the Environment specifically do to put an end to systematic overproduction?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172223	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172224	I am one to agree, perhaps just except for the SF Youth campaign that I don't know, so you have to be careful to sign it from the start. However, the question that we cannot, as a single consumer, solve the huge challenge of more sustainable production of textiles is quite obvious, and I also think that as a consumer we should expect that when we go down and take down products, it should be easy to make the green choice. That's where it's hard today. You can go the way of recycling and you can do a lot yourself, but I also think there is an obligation on us as politicians to act on it. I myself have had a meeting with the Consumer Council. Think about this agenda. So there is a lot we must do politically as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172307	The reason why so much clothing is burned off in Denmark is that there are some very problematic incentive structures that mean that it is better to burn new and unused clothes instead of restricting its production or its purchases. In France, a ban on the burning of non-sold goods has been introduced, such as: clothes. This gives companies an incentive to reduce their overproduction and ensures that the remaining non-sold clothing is put into service. The clothes must then be used and reused and eventually recycled and not just burned off. Will the Minister take the initiative to investigate the possibility of introducing such a ban with inspiration from France in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172347	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172349	Now the time has run away from me, and that is what happens when you get involved so that you simply do not have time to say everything you want to say. However, in relation to the rules, I believe, as I said before, that it is not at all within the rules that unused clothes are being burned in Denmark today. It's like one part of it. Then there is what we can do, and there is both something we can do in Denmark • I have had a meeting with the fashion industry myself, we have set in motion initiatives in relation to research, but also concretely in relation to a more sustainable fashion, also on the export side • and then there is work going on in the EU where, among other things, we are working. also looks at producer responsibility as one of the things that is interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172425	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172426	I do not think that the Minister is completely hitting the nail here, because one of the environmental problems in the fashion and textile industry is that the clothing is not designed for recycling and recycling. Much clothing is not durable enough to be used over and over again, and it is also difficult to recycle because some different materials have been mixed together, and I think that is a fundamental structural problem. In several areas, we have then introduced the extended producer responsibility for making producers responsible for their products, and so I would really like to hear whether the Minister will ensure that more clothes are designed for recycling and recycling. And could the Minister envisage introducing an extended producer responsibility on clothing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172508	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172509	One of the things we agreed on last summer was this climate plan for waste, where we from Denmark take a strong lead by saying that now we all need to sort the used textiles at home. That is to say, instead of being thrown into the large combustion furnace, where it emits CO2 And that is a journey, just as the questioner says, where instead of throwing so much away, you should be able to recycle and recycle it, and where, as a company, you should also have an incentive to say: well, how do we ensure that we can use what we get back and that there will also be refund schemes? So I really think we're on the same side here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172544	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin and the Minister for the Environment. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for the Environment, and that is what Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party, who just needs to have patience for a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172613	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that the new rules for the protection of unique species of butterflies can influence the construction of upcoming infrastructure projects close to Natura 2000 sites such as Bygholm Ådal, where many unique species have been added in recent years?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172631	Thank you to the questioner. Here you go, the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172633	Thank you. Our nature is in crisis. Many butterflies are at risk of disappearing completely at home, and in this situation we cannot allow rare butterflies to be hunted and collected. With the new rules, 34 Danish day butterflies species have been included in the species conservation notice's ban on deliberate killing and capture of wild species. To date, there has been only a ban on capturing a small number of species covered by the strict protection regime of the Habitats Directive. The ban comes, among other things. in the wake of a case where two Danes were convicted in Norway for capturing highly threatened butterflies. And also at WWF, the World Wildlife Fund, it has long been a wish that vulnerable species of butterfly be protected against capture. The ban applies in general, but in special cases the Danish Environmental Protection Agency may grant derogations from the ban, possibly with conditions for defensive measures such as establishing new habitats or moving species. The Danish EPA has stated that the Danish EPA expects a restrictive exemption practice on the basis of comparable areas, but where derogations are granted, inter alia, to the Danish EPA. construction and infrastructure projects. The prohibition thus has neither the object nor the indirect consequence of preventing projects of a social and non-profit nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172752	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172755	Thank you, Minister. After all, it is impressive to see the Minister's many initiatives to combat what the Minister calls the natural crisis. Right now, as I understand it, you can be punished with up to 1 year in prison for catching 1 out of 34 Danish butterfly species. But the big question is, what does this have to do with the real world? For one thing, if I go out with my net and catch a butterfly, I can be punished for it. But at the same time you see construction as what we have previously talked about in Bygholm Ådal, where you will make a road to heavy transport right up a Natura 2000 area, where there are a large number of unique species, among others. Otters and a lot of butterflies. So my question to the Minister is: are these new rules something that must also be taken into account in the consultation process on the road that is currently under way? In other words, the new rules can mean that we can actually protect the area, among other things. Because of the rules on butterflies?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172855	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172857	It is true that we have discussed this before, and I know that this is a matter of concern to the rapporteur. So it's perfectly natural that you can try to find ways to say whether this or this couldn't be relevant. But the reason I went through what I did was partly to say what the political motivation has been and what we really want to achieve. And it's also a changed view of whether it's okay to catch these butterflies, as we saw a concrete example of some Danes doing in Norway where we say it's not okay. Can it be alone? No, of course it cannot, because we must also protect habitats and other things. The last sentence, however, which states that the prevention of projects of a social and non-profit nature does not have the object or indirect consequence, applies. And that's really what I was trying to start with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172943	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310172944	I think that is deeply ironic. I can go to prison for 1 year if I go out with my net and catch a butterfly, while Horsens Municipality can build a road to heavy transport in the middle of a natural area where there are thousands of butterflies. Can't the Minister see the irony of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173002	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173003	No, and it is also because I think that a few things are being skipped over in the argument that is being used here, among other things. I said this here about exemption practices, that is, that the ban applies to everyone it is clear but that there is the possibility of exemption, just as there are a large number of other areas. I also usually know Conservatives as a party where, after all, they say: we want the green road, but there must also be room for nuances. So there is here too. In relation to the specific case, it is difficult for me to comment on exactly what butterflies and other things are there. But it is just to say that there is the possibility of exemption that I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173045	Now the Minister says that the Minister is doing so much to combat the so-called natural crisis, and here is an example of unique Danish nature that is really threatened. We even invited the Minister to visit us. But if the Minister really wants to do something, the Minister could of course use the powers of the Minister for example. to propose the conservation of the area directly adjacent to the Natura 2000 area. Is this something the Minister would like to consider?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173113-2	This is a supplementary question on the question of butterflies, which is a question of which areas we are to preserve in Denmark. I only have one wish that we take good care of nature. I really think that for too many years we have not looked after nature well enough in Denmark. That is why we have created a package of nature and biodiversity to improve nature with untouched forests and new national parks. I am always happy to listen to Conservative proposals in this area, but I am also thinking of the differences that have arisen and which Conservatives have expressed in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173151	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister of Culture by Sten Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173213	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173218	Thank you. Why does the Minister not want a further opening up of outdoor life and sport when the recent forecast of the Statens Serum Institute shows that these activities have a minimal risk of infection?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173231	Let me start by making it quite clear that, like the questioner and probably most other Danes, I want to see further opening up of the outdoor activities as well as the rest of the cultural, sports and association life as soon as possible. That was also why the government, together with the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten on 24 February, made an agreement for a further reopening in relation to the one that the health authorities had calculated and recommended when we set the limit for outdoor activities to 25 and not the 20 people. But it always has to be on an enlightened basis when we move on like this in the middle of a pandemic. And when the authorities consider that this would be safe in terms of health in relation to the other reopenings, then I and probably the questioner will be quite clear. As a follow-up to the political understanding between the government, the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten on the next steps for the reopening of Denmark, calculations or assessments of all the last relaxations in the reference group's report have been initiated, and the Ministry of Health has informed me that, as far as possible, these will be scenarios for partial relaxations with a certain set of restrictions, for example. testing to allow maximum opening in each sector within what is safe from health. Some of the relaxations are not feasible, and qualitative assessments by the health authorities are being initiated here. It was a quote from the Minister of Health. So within the next few weeks the government will be able to present calculations to all parties of the Folketing as soon as they are available from the health authorities. Fortunately, we are constantly becoming wiser at the pandemic, which is why we have opened up so much in this case to a number of outdoor activities already based on the health authorities' assessments. However, I look forward both to the debate here and to further discussions on getting even more started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173429	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173431	Thank you for that, and also thank you to the Minister for the answer and for wanting to work for a better framework for outdoor sport as well. After all, we are in a pandemic, as the Minister also says, which causes an economic crisis, but also a mental and social crisis, and here we are talking about well-being, association, fellowship, some of what sport can do. The infection is about constant, perhaps even downward; the vaccine is on its way in. In fact, the Left has a very good plan for how we could unfold this whole reopening, because we would really like that. And I would like to read from the reference group's report because now the Minister also mentioned that when the health authorities say something, they try to follow it. After all, the reference group says on 21 February, and now I read out: calculations show that outdoor sports and cultural activities have a minor impact on infection and hospitalization rates. It may speak for a national reopening. At the same time, there is also a potential for geographical reopening in relation to activities that are locally anchored and are not expected to involve cross-country commuting. And now comes some of the important things: these are also areas which are of great importance to the well-being of the people. So that's what we're talking about... what sport can do. Doesn't that impress the Minister? That was one question. Secondly, will the Minister not work even harder for, just as the Left does for us to get our outdoor activities going?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173611	I would certainly like to work for this, and I would very much like it, together with the author's party and the rest of Parliament's parties, because it made a great impression when these first calculations came, because what is the risk of infection, for example? outdoor sports. Many asked: Why didn't you know this before? We've discussed it a lot, so why didn't the government know it before? I just have to say that this is actually the first time we have such concrete modelling. There are different, what can be said, sequences that this spread of infection may have with the reopenings we have made. And of course it was really nice to get the figures that outdoor activities have significantly lower levels of infection than other activities, and that is also why that is what has been opened up first. Right now, fortunately, the infection numbers follow the low curve, and we all cross our fingers and work hard to keep them going so we can look forward to even more activity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173706	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173707	Thank you. My President has been out to say that every day counts, and I would agree with him on that. On 21 February it was 14 days, almost 3 weeks, since the authorities came and said that they could actually recommend that both geographically and outdoor activity could be opened up more. It does not seem that the government has listened to it, and it does not seem as if the Minister is fully involved in the question and comment I have about whether the Minister has been working after it since 21 February.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173747	But I think my first speech gave the answer to that, since the agreement was concluded on 24 February. So incredibly fast after these calculations lay, the government put up for discussion and also got the support of a majority in the Folketing to just go ahead with the first steps. However, I look forward as much as the author of the question to the fact that we can move forward and get further activities going again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173814	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner. Here you go, sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173835	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister for Culture for your answer. I do not think it was entirely satisfactory, because what has come out is that when you do not open up more outdoor sports than what the government has agreed with its red support parties, it is because you have not counted on it. I can just say that there are a lot of young people out there who need to meet each other and who pay the costs humanly. Many people are probably also economically affected, but in association I think it is the association with each other in a healthy way that has been affected in terms of health. We know that this is not where the high risk of infection is, in other words, in outdoor sport. Why has outdoor sport not been opened up? It's not because the government hasn't asked the Epidemic Commission to rain on it. The Left is currently proposing, I think, where there is a meeting of the Epidemic Committee, that the ceiling should be increased and I foresee that it will be voted down, and I simply cannot understand that. That is why I am asking, frankly, just like my good colleague Mr. Stén Knuth, Minister for Culture, why it is the government does not want to allow better room for children and young people to meet in a health-friendly way and to practice outdoor sports.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310173942	Thank you very much. First of all, I have to challenge the premise which I think the questioner has put forward here, namely that outdoor sport should not have been opened. Well, now I don't know where mr. Karsten Lauritzen is so moving around, but wherever I move around, I see just how the whole Danish association life has really moved outside to experience it having association. So the reopening that was agreed on 24 February has helped to revive very large parts of sports and association outdoors. And yes, it is under these provisional restrictions, but I would also like to say that I and the government are, of course, very much in favour of exploring all the possibilities and that we are also constantly looking at the restrictions and looking at whether there is a possibility of allowing more people to gather together and all these things. But we are saying that we must have it calculated first, and that is also the logic that has been put into the whole epidemic law, with which I assume the questioner also agrees, namely that we first get the health professional recommendation and that it is on the basis of the one we make our political decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174052	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174054	Thank you for that answer, Minister of Culture. It is true that it has been opened up, but with some limitations, including some number restrictions, which are a little harsh and in which we in the Left believe that more can be opened up from the point of view of health. When nothing more has been opened up, it is because the government has asked the Epidemic Commission to count on what the government would like. All we're saying is, maybe you should ask a little wider. We want to be sure that the country's Minister for Culture is fighting for voluntary association and is also pushing for the opening up of the country's government colleagues and Prime Minister, because that means so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174134	Thank you very much. That is exactly what has meant that the parties to the agreement have now said that, at the next step, the assessments must be made in relation to the scenarios presented by the Ministry of Health, i.e. different layers of restrictions, where partial reductions can be looked at, so that maximum openings can be made in each sector, in relation to what is safe in terms of health. Although I think we can have this discussion about whether or not we should have done it before, we are constantly getting smarter and we are doing it as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174211	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174216	Thank you. We're getting smarter all the time. But already on 21 February, the reference group says that outdoor sport can be opened up more, because there is virtually no risk of infection. Once you are out, the activity that is going on out there is also in very different sizes. So the Left's hope is that the Minister will work hard to allow outdoor sport to open up more, as the reference group has actually recommended, and if the minister lacks a hand, the Left is at least behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174258	I am sure that there will be a great many hands from all the parties of the Folketing who will. Then I would just like to remind the questioner and the co-questioner that the agreement of 24 February already went further than the calculations made. But I also hope that, in our eagerness to get more and more open, we can agree that the best way of dealing with the eternal future, I was just about to say that we are going against where we should not risk a new decommissioning, is also to do it wisely, that is to say, we are following this logic of getting the health authorities' recommendation before we make a political decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174332	Thank you. There is a new question from Mr. Stén Knuth to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174344	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174347	Thank you for that, President. When the government's reference group learns that measures to prevent the spread of infection can significantly reduce the risk of infection in indoor sports, does the Minister believe that there is a basis for opening up indoor sports and association?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174402-2	Thank you very much. In relation to the actual calculations and recommendations, that is exactly what the government is doing on the basis of, as we just mentioned in the previous question. And as a follow-up to the political understanding between the government, the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten on the next steps for reopening Denmark, calculations and assessments have just begun in relation to all the relaxations that we are all eager to move forward with. It will remain in these scenarios, which I also mentioned in the last question, where partial relief is envisaged with a certain amount of restrictions, for example. testing to allow maximum opening in each sector and within what is safe from health. Some of the relaxations will not be possible to count on in concrete terms, but qualitative assessments by the health authorities will be initiated here. As soon as these calculations are available, the government will present them to all the parties of the Folketing, and in a different way it will mean that as soon as we have the medical evidence, we would also very much like to enter into negotiations with the Left and other parties of the Folketing to open up the indoor sports and association life, which there is so much demand for. Then a thousand for the word.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174516	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174518	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your reply to the Minister for Culture. I understand that discussions are taking place in many places about reopening, but I also think that when the Minister is the minister for indoor and outdoor sport, that is to say for a great many people, I am actually calling for the Minister's opinion on indoor sport. In the Left, we have this plan, which I also referred to in the previous question, with flexible reopening, because we can see that the framework is different, and it also offers opportunities for the practice of indoor sport in very different ways. In fact, the infection is also distributed differently, and that is why we are a little back in the fact that the recommendations from the reference group are precisely that you also have to look at geographically where there are opportunities for us to do something more. So I will actually repeat the question, but not with so much focus on what the government intends to do, but more on what the minister's position is on this and what the minister will work for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174615	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174616	The Minister, together with the rest of the government, will work to ensure that, as soon as there are health recommendations that say that the green light is now being given, society, including indoor sport, more of outdoor sport, cultural life, cultural institutions and all the things that we miss far and wide, is reopened as soon as possible. I also think that the point made by the questioner is precisely that we are also looking at it geographically, because one of the first attempts has been made in these recent reopenings, where Bornholm has gone much further than the rest of the country, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174657	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Culture for the answer. The Minister speaks of geographical diversity. I wonder whether the Minister also recognises and has a position that halls can be very different, swimming pools can be very different. So there is a different framework for indoor sport, which can also be filled in differently. Will the Minister work for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174719	Thank you very much. To a certain extent: yes. That is one of the things that we, for example, are doing. has seen in connection with the shops that it has been possible to look at the size differentiated. Whether we get into something similar with regard to sport and culture depends on what the recommendations that come from the Ministry of Health look like. I really wanted us to have some guidelines that opened up most of the time as quickly as possible, so that you don't have to stand first and look at how many square meters you have. The volunteers probably have bureaucratic burdens, which I think we can agree on too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174753	Thank you. There's a co-questioner again. It's sir. Karsten Lauritzen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174801	Thank you to the Minister for Culture, also for answering this question. It's very close to the other. I would like to address some of what the Minister said earlier, where the Minister said if I got it correctly noted that we are doing it as quickly as we can. I think that's what I and my good colleague are challenging a little. When you read a little in the papers and when you attend the meetings of the Danish Parliament's Epidemi Committee, which I am fortunately doing as a member it is confidential meetings, so it is not to refer from them that I can just say that then you do not quite get the impression that it reaches, among other things. is about sport and leisure, is what is at the top of the government's agenda. The government stands on the board, and that must also be taken down and the Minister for Culture the same, an extremely precautionary principle. It is very difficult to understand in municipalities where there have not been infected for a long time, for example. island municipalities, why you cannot be allowed to open up to indoor sports. I do not understand that, and I believe that the Danes who follow it do not understand it either. I also have to say to the Minister for Culture that it may well be that the Minister says that we are doing it as quickly as we can, but it does not seem that way. I would therefore like to ask the Minister again why the Minister believes that it is impossible to open up to, for example. indoor sport in e.g. the municipalities where there has been no infected?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174913	Thank you very much. Well, that's because the Minister of Culture is very concerned about the excuse, it's all this with formalities: I'm one of the most frustrating things about being Minister of Culture, is actually giving those messages that now you can't anymore. I hope that we will now have a joint plan, which our party leaders are discussing with the Prime Minister, in terms of walking steadily, but as fast as we can, towards further reopening all the way through.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174954	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310174955	I agree very much with the Minister for Culture on this last point, but it does indeed require that the government not only ask the experts to count on what the government has decided in advance to do, but also on a number of other scenarios. And then I think that this presupposes, I would say to the Minister for Culture, that we are not only looking at an extreme concern about the number of people infected, we are also looking at the fact that, as more and more people have been vaccinated and we have protected the vulnerable, there are some children and young people, especially in society, who are paying the cost, whether indoors or outdoors. Therefore, I would recommend the government of course to be concerned about the health of the Danes, but also look at how we can find solutions where the two things can go hand in hand and do so quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175035	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175036	One of the areas where the government is also looking at the possibilities is, for example, one of the areas where the government is looking at the possibilities. in the development of this coronapas. The more people who are being vaccinated, the more people who have, like, been given the immunity to this virus, the more we can hopefully go together, despite all the concerns that may also be in relation to a coronapas. Well, then we can say that if you have been vaccinated, if you have been tested recently, or if you have had the disease and have antibodies, then this is a way that we can actually get even more progress in our culture, sports and association life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175111	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175115	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Minister for Culture for the answers both to you, but also to my good colleague, Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen. Well, this is an extremely important area. There are really, really many people, 3-4 million people who use our association life every day, whether you are inside or out. We are talking about communities, well-being, association, and we are talking about what the reference group is also talking about, namely that there is really a lot of well-being here. So we in the Left would just like to offer that if the Minister lacks a hand on his back in relation to speed, then we are ready for it, and I also believe that the Minister has a rather good backlash from the 3-4 million users of the association life who are out there and who are ready to pull their clothes, both when it comes to indoors and outdoors sports.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175209	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175210	Well, I just want to look forward to seeing that we are really achieving this consensus, which I really see there is precisely about the importance of sport, association and culture for us as individuals and as a society, that is to say that it is backed up also by the health recommendations, so that we can also get back to everything that we miss in confidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175233	Thank you. The question is closed. Then we move on to the last question during Question Time, and that is to the Minister for Culture by Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175249	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175254	Does the Minister understand that the organisers are responsible for such matters as: Music in the Rent and Frederikssund Festival lacks concrete government announcements about guidelines and help?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175308	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175309	Thank you very much for the question. There are about 100 different festivals counted by Dansk Live in Denmark and even more markets and travelling carnival oils, which just lack concrete announcements on: What are the health restrictions? And what help is there if the restrictions make it difficult for us to do what we usually do? In addition, we are very many who just miss the strong experiences that these festivals and other events usually give us every summer, and that is also why the Danish government, as one of the first governments in Europe last week, reported such a concrete model on how to get the certainty of the economy in its planning as a single organizer. There is probably some way towards this becoming a reality, where we can be there completely, as usual, but the possibility of being able to organise large events this summer will be very much in order, even if we still have to follow the development of the covid infection in the population and society. Because with the vaccines, there's light ahead. We don't know exactly when we're done with vaccinations, and it's too early to say anything about mutations and all that. So health professionals it is difficult to give the guidelines right now, but these days we are sitting with the rapporteurs and negotiating on how we can then financially create a framework for further planning for these organisers. At least that is what we call a customized organizational arrangement. It must be able to apply over the summer and be able to support those festivals and other organisers who, in their contracts, also have the possibility of having to scale down if the health restrictions say so, but in any case it is a question of ensuring that if there is something that can be done, it must also be possible to do so, so that we have a real Danish summer. This, of course, requires its approval by the European Commission, but we are working hard on that these days.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175506	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175508	Thank you for your answer. I am a little surprised at what the Minister is saying with regard to vaccines, because I am aware that a rather fixed date has been set for when the Danes should have been vaccinated for those who want it at least. Music will be held at the end of July, and Frederikssund Festival will be held at the beginning of August, and by that time anyone who wants the vaccine will be able to be vaccinated according to both the plan of the government and the authorities, which I mentioned just now. So why can't the government just say "okay" now to celebrate festivals? Can the Minister give a single factual argument as to why these festivals should not be held at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175546	In concrete terms, it is a question of continuing to study the long-term effects of this vaccine in the case of health experts. And what exactly is going on, I would like to come back to perhaps with a written answer, but at least that is what I get when I ask the same question to the health experts. The second is that we are still missing the political debate on this coronapa, which is based very much on the fact that the vaccines can give access to some of these events. Will we use it politically in this way to open up again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175621	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175622	So what the minister then says is that it means that the festivals still do not know whether they are bought or sold. What if it turns out that the government is closing the summer festivals, how are the festivals covered? They are currently negotiating contracts with artists and suppliers, and so they lack clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175645	I certainly am not going to leave them with that uncertainty alone. That is exactly what we, as a government, have reported out with this adapted organizer scheme: that we want to give them a framework in order to be able to plan ahead with financial security in this very uncertain situation. So negotiations are under way on this. I have been to them earlier today and continue them here in the coming days in order to give them certainty as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175713	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175715	Thanks for the answers. Unfortunately, it didn't make me or the festivals much smarter. But when exactly does the Minister expect that to happen, the Minister must be able to say now that the Minister says that negotiations are under way ■ that the festivals can be assured? Because they are both prepared to scale down and introduce all the necessary security measures. They just want to be allowed to plan and hold the festival they love so much. They will not be shut down by an over-cautious government that acts out of proportion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175745	The economic certainty of being able to plan ahead would certainly enable us politically to present an agreement if we all suddenly come to an agreement when we meet here next Friday. But even then, I just have to remember to mention that, after all, such a scheme must be approved in accordance with the EU's State aid rules. I believe that in this way we will create the best predictability for the organisers while waiting for the recommendations of the health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175813	Thank you. The question is closed. That was the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175823	The debate is open. It is first the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310175854	With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes that a bill on citizenship notices be drawn up in such a way that separate legislative proposals are put forward for applicants from different main groups of countries. The proposers want draft legislation on citizenship notices to be drawn up as several legislative proposals divided into groups of countries. One group of countries consists of applicants from the so-called MENAPT countries consisting of countries from the Middle East, North Africa, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Turkey. The second group of countries consists of applicants from Western countries and the last group of countries consists of applicants from non-western countries without the countries I mentioned before. Let me start by saying that we cannot support the resolution on the part of the government. I find it difficult to see why there is a need to divide legislative proposals in this way. Today, there is a set of rules governing when you can become a Danish citizen, which a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is behind. These are some demands we make in order to become a Danish citizen, and we have tightened the requirements on several occasions, so today it really takes a solid effort and great dedication to become a Danish citizen. The granting of citizenship to foreigners is a great declaration of trust on the part of our society. Thus, when a person is admitted to a bill on citizenship notification, the person concerned will meet the high requirements we impose or will have been granted a derogation from one or more conditions from the committee which sits here in the Folketing and deals with matters. This shall be done regardless of the nationality or origin of the person. In addition, there are a number of international obligations to which Denmark has acceded. It will raise questions in relation to some of the obligations if the bill is divided into several legislative proposals, so that individuals from certain groups of countries are not to be able to acquire Danish citizenship by naturalisation, as it is said, even if they otherwise fulfil the conditions. It could therefore question whether persons from certain groups of countries actually have the possibility of naturalisation if they are de facto excluded from obtaining Danish citizenship because the Folketing will not vote in favour of legislative proposals for certain individuals from groups of countries. In addition, there is a ban on discrimination provided for in several international conventions. So all in all, I have a little difficulty in seeing what the purpose of such a division should be. I fear that it will discriminate against certain groups of people on the basis of their nationality, and we do not want that on the part of the government. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution either. However, we would very much like to discuss whether there is a need to change some of the demands we make in order to become a Danish citizen. That is precisely why we have called for the current negotiations in the field of citizenship, which I am very much looking forward to continuing, including with the party of the authors of the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180152	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180155	Would the Minister not agree with me that we often divide legislative proposals into several legislative proposals in this Chamber when a party wishes to do so? And would the Minister not also agree with me that sometimes the other parties do not quite see the meaning of it? Because they think they can easily vote for or against the whole pile of paragraphs that come in the law they are about, while those who want it divided just think that there are parts here that do not fit together; there are some parts they will vote for and some parts they will vote against, and that is not possible when it is a single law. So would the Minister not agree with me that in order for us to carry out our political work and take a political position on matters, it may sometimes be necessary to split a bill, even if some politicians do not think it is necessary while others do? And why should the custom that we have in here that legislative proposals should be split up when a party so wishes not apply when it comes to the area of citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180303	It is true that it often happens that legislative proposals are split up. Only yesterday the Folketing adopted two different draft laws on combating social control, which were originally only one and which were just divided for the sake of some parties in the Folketing, who only wanted to vote in favour of parts of the law. I think that is also generally a good and healthy principle, because we share our views and, for obvious reasons, do not agree on everything. Then it would make no sense to have a parliamentary election. I have also tabled amendments to a specific draft law on the granting of citizenship, in which I think it was precisely the questioner who asked for such an amendment, in which a lot of applicants were withdrawn from the bill and in which the Danish People's Party voted in favour of the amendment and a majority of the Danish Parliament voted against, so that the specific people were actually granted citizenship. So it is not because I am opposed in principle to splitting up legislative proposals, but this resolution is, of course, about the government's future drafting of legislative proposals, so that separate legislative proposals are put forward for applicants from different main groups of countries, and I would not be in favour of such a general rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180417	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180418	I assume that means that the Minister would like to split up the next bill at the request of the Danish People's Party to divide it into MEAPT countries and other country groups. That was one question. The second is how to conduct politics when you are not allowed to take a political position in the Folketing. It is written in the Constitution that it is a political decision whether or not to have citizenship. How, then, can we in the Folketing conduct politics if we do not have the opportunity to vote yes or no to the individual applicants in fact, but here we are proposing, after all, that they are divided into groups of countries if one can only vote for such a completely superior pile, where one cannot really see who it is that one is actually taking a stand on through the laws of citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180506	But I suppose it is about the fact that behind this resolution there is a rather more fundamental discussion, namely about two people who have migrated to Denmark from two different countries... let us just say Russia and Egypt must be put differently, even if they live up to the same conditions. I think that is a fair fundamental discussion, and there is at least the view of the government that if they meet the same objective conditions and they have applied for Danish citizenship, they must be treated equally and not meet with a different approach from that of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180544	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180546	Thank you. I just want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister does not recognise that a great many citizenships have been given over the years, and also a great many citizenships to some who should not have had them at all. This is the first question The second question is whether the Minister does not also recognise that there are some countries with which we have much better experience than others.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180610	The short answer is: yes and yes. Too many citizenships have been awarded, and anyone who can find out how to look up statistics can see that some people have had a better chance of falling into Danish society than others. And one of the reasons why I have asked the Ministry to produce statistics on the basis of this new category, which is made up of the Middle East, North Africa and Turkey, is that about half of the category now known as non-Western immigrants is actually doing very well in Latin America and the Far East, for example. China and the other half, which are from the Middle East and North Africa, are doing significantly worse. So the existing category of non-western immigrants is actually a little blurry about how different groups of immigrants in Denmark are doing. Our view is then that this category should be used to learn more about the integration debate and to qualify the political discussion, so that we get more honest figures in the debate, and not to define rights in the legislation, as I fear it will de facto end up if a majority in the Folketing, for example. ended up voting against a MENAPT bill on the granting of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180719	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180721	I would just like to start by saying that it is not a right to have Danish citizenship; it is a great gift • it is the greatest gift the Danish state can give anyone at all. And when the Minister himself acknowledges that people from these MEAPT countries are the ones we have quite bad experience with, among other things. As far as crime is concerned, why would the Minister not accept that, as stated here by the Danish People's Party, the bill should be split up so that we can actually vote 'yes' to those with whom we have good experience, and 'no' to those with whom we have poor experience, so that we do not continue down the road that unfortunately has been going down for many years, where too many citizenships have been distributed to too many people who should never have had it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180804	Well, if you want fewer people to be granted citizenship, then I think you should tighten the general conditions for granting citizenship and not start selecting certain groups of countries and say: you can have citizenship, and you cannot. We have to assume that those people from the Middle East who meet the criteria we have laid down, who have to speak Danish at a certain level, who have not committed serious crime and who have been in employment, are just as integrated as all sorts of others. That must be our basic point. It should also be borne in mind that it is not in the granting of citizenship that we can control the influx to Denmark. After all, all the people on the bill have permanent residences they can stay in Denmark for the rest of their lives. What I, on the other hand, agree with the questioner is that we need to limit the influx from the Middle East and North Africa, because we know historically that there are integration challenges with people from those countries, but it is just not with the granting of citizenship that we can control it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180853	Thank you, Minister. There are no more comments. Then we go to the rapporteur's line. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310180919	Thank you for the floor. With this proposal, the Danish People's Party proposes that more draft legislation on citizenship announcements should be drawn up on the basis of country groups. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that we must stand firm to the principle that applies to foreigners who wish to acquire citizenship. If you have done your duty and comply with the strict conditions, you can also obtain Danish citizenship, even if you originate in specific countries. We must not compromise on our principle of equal treatment, and we do not want to act contrary to our international obligations. That is why we do not want to discriminate against applicants on the basis of their ethnic origin. Applicants must be judged solely on the basis of their ability and willingness to become part of the Danish community. However, we know that origin is important for integration in Denmark. This can be clearly seen from publications from Statistics Denmark, which they publish every year. It is typically immigrants from the Middle East who have the lowest employment rate, who are more on public support and who are over-represented in crime statistics. Persons with e.g. Somali background, Syrian background or Palestinian background are on average significantly less integrated than e.g. people from Sri Lanka, Thailand or Chile. However, this ethnic side of statistics does not legitimise discrimination based on ethnic origin. Instead, we need to use our knowledge of poor integration among certain ethnic groups to find more targeted solutions to the problems. So, on the basis of these considerations, the Social Democratic Party does not support the resolution, but looks forward to the continued negotiations with DF and the other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181049	Thank you. Mrs Marie Krarup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181053	It really surprises me that the Social Democrats, and hence the government too, think that this is discrimination. It is, of course, a political decision which one wants to give citizenship, but the political decision must therefore be taken in the dark. There has to be a large pile of names, and then you can say either yes or no. It must not be the case that they are divided into sub-groups so that they can decide on the individual sub-groups. You have to have blindfolds and hands behind your back when you make a political decision; it really seems strange. Why is it that we cannot gain more knowledge of those who seek? In a moment, we will have to discuss whether we can know what religious affiliation each candidate has, which is also good information to have. Here we want to know and get them broken down by which countries they come from. It is a political decision which will be given citizenship. Social democracy can just not give that weight; social democracy can just vote 'yes' to all of them without making any difference at all to where they come from. But there are others who think it is important. Why is it that the Social Democrats have to decide, that is, that the government has to decide what political positions we actually have? Why can't we make a difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181212	I guess I just disagree with Mrs Krarup that you cannot get information about them, things to know. I think it is very transparent. Now we are both on the Committee on the Rights of the Child, of which Mrs Krarup is an excellent chairman, and we can be told everything. You may not be allowed to share it with the public, but you can know all about these: where they come from, how long they have lived here, what they have done, what their family relationship is. So I think it's a very, very transparent process, and that's where the Danish People's Party and other parties can pick people out or want to take people out of a bill if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181240	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181242	But we cannot vote 'yes' or 'no' to them; that is the problem. We want to vote in favour of some groups, for example. South Schleswigers, Nordic citizens, but we do not want to vote in favour of Muslim Afghans, Pakistanis or whatever else, except in very few cases, and we cannot be allowed to do so. We are also being forced to vote against people to whom we really want to vote in favour. There is what I think it is wrong for others to decide what the right political positions are to have. The right political position is evidently that if you are able to meet objective requirements, then it is. But we do not look at people as detached individuals; we see people as some who have a great cultural background with them. And that's not an illegitimate point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181333	I don't think so either. It's honest talk, how to weigh these things. In other words, we often take a position on individual cases, where I also know that the Danish People's Party sits and votes against some and yes to some others; we also do so in the Social Democratic Party. So you can also deal with cases individually. But, as the Minister also said, it is the idea behind it that, on principle, you are a bad candidate if you come from Iran rather than if you come from Ireland. And we think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181359	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181417	Thank you for that, President. Being a Danish citizen is something very special. That is why it is all but no matter who we give the gift of citizenship, and that is why we must make every effort to grant citizenship. Therefore, we really think that the discussion that the Danish People's Party is about to hold is a fine discussion in relation to what we need to know about those who are applying and what we need to make of it. We believe that we must make quite considerable demands on people who will be Danish citizens, too, who have a greater weight than the demands that are being made today. We mean, for example: We do not believe that we should be able to obtain Danish citizenship if we have committed gross social fraud and stolen from the community; and then we believe that Denmark should have been taken into account. If, as a foreigner, you come to Denmark to live here and become a citizen, you must not do it to change Denmark, but to be Danish and become Danish. That is why we have put forward a large number of proposals on how we can tighten and improve the rules for the award of Danish citizenship. This proposal is not, of course, a proposal that we ourselves have put forward, but it has been brought into the political negotiations that are taking place right now by the Danish People's Party, which is why we have of course thought about it carefully. Is this a proposal that benefits the objectives that we in the Left have for the forthcoming negotiations? We're not really sure it's • we don't actually think it is. Here we believe and it is probably very natural to put more emphasis on our own proposals, plus the possibility of a greater degree of individual treatment on the Committee of Insights. That will be the way forward for this proposal. That is why we are not positive. However, DF has also played this proposal on the table in the negotiations we are having right now, so it is probably not the last time that we will be discussing the proposal. Let that be my word for now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181618	Thank you. Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181621	Well, thank you for those, I would almost like to say positive words here on the proposal. But I assume that when the Left says that there is a need for more individual treatment, that one will then support that instead of dividing the law by country groups one simply votes individually on the individual applicants so that one can look through the individual individuals. Because we support the proposal that you should not be a criminal; we think that is very sensible. However, we also think that there is a great difference between a criminal from the Middle East who may already find it difficult to settle in cultural terms or a South Schleswiger who, some 20 years ago, has been sentenced to possession of hashish, which is of course also a stupid crime, but which is something that may not be repeated, and who is perhaps a Danish-minded person who wants citizenship. At least there we think that individual treatment would be much better. Will the rapporteur of the Left support me in saying that this is what we must do in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181729	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181731	But in the Left, we think it is a clue that is worth going down: this is how we in the Committee on Bodily Rights can do a higher degree of individual treatment. We think this is sensible because people are different. But when we do not think it is beneficial to divide it up in countries, it is because we think that individual treatment should take place where we already have some mechanisms to do so, i.e. in the Committee on Bodily Rights. Because there are differences between people, and it must be possible to go in and assess the individual cases more separately than today, because there may be individual circumstances, or there are individual circumstances in each case that speak for and against. And so often we have good discussions on this in the Committee on the Rights of the Child, and then we decide whether or not to go to the bill. And I kind of think that's a very nice model.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181815	However, as it is today, it is only a very, very small proportion of the applicants we have who come to the individual treatment. The vast majority of people are directly involved in a legislative proposal in the large group, and there you cannot vote for or against; there you can only cast a single vote. And that is the problem: that is what annoys us, that is to say that we cannot vote according to the basic political position of each party, since it is customary to happily divide legislative proposals everywhere in other areas according to the political wishes that each party may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181858	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181859	But it is true that most applicants go directly to the bill, and that is because most applicants meet the requirements. That is why we say that if we want to make more effort to grant Danish citizenship, and that is what we want in the Left, we must tighten up the demands that are made to become a Danish citizen, for example. in relation to crime, but also in relation to having taken Denmark to heart and respect the Danish values. These are requirements that we are not making good enough today and that we need to tighten up, and the Left would very much like to work for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181932	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310181935	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. These are always interesting discussions we have, because there are also some fundamental aspects to it. Therefore, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur basically agrees that the granting of citizenship should take place on the basis of specific objective criteria and then we can discuss how tight they should be or how relaxed they should be, and perhaps there could be a difference of opinion as to whether he believes in principle that this should be done on the basis of objective criteria. And is the rapporteur of the opinion that which country one comes from could also be an objective criterion which could be applied in relation to the granting of citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182014	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182015	I think the devil is in the detail here. I am sure that if I ask Mrs Krarup, she can easily say that it is an objective criterion if you come from one country and not from another country. It's pretty objectively verifiable. So I think the devil is in the detail. What we think we should do when it comes to granting citizenship is to make more effort than we are doing today. Just to give a few examples, we do not think that people who have committed crime should be rewarded with a Danish passport. We think that we should hit harder on people who steal from the community they want to be part of by committing gross social fraud. And then we also think that we should introduce a new element that focuses more on Danish values, that is, where we say that becoming a Danish citizen is something very special, and that is something very special, because Denmark is something very special. There are some special values to which we profess, and that is why we must forward-lookingly, we think, when granting citizenship, make sure that the people we let into the Danish community basically accept and respect the Danish values.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182116	Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182118	Now I was asking for what, sir. Morten Dahlin and the Left mean and not what the Left believes the Danish People's Party means. There are, in fact, just two questions: 1) Is the Left in favour of granting citizenship according to objective criteria? And then we can discuss how tight they have to be and all that. (2) Is which country, in the view of the Left, an objective criterion which is relevant to the granting of citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182146	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182147	We do not, of course, support this resolution, because we believe that if we meet the demands of the Danish Parliament, which must now be objective requirements to answer the first part of the question, then we must also have the opportunity to become a Danish citizen. However, I do not think we should neglect the discussion on what requirements it should be. And I'm sure we can have a discussion between Mr. Peder Hvelplund and me on what are objective criteria. Because when we get down to the whole question of value, I am quite convinced that the Enhedslisten and the Left have completely opposite views on how, for example, we can do this. determines whether people respect basic Danish values.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182224	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182226	Thank you. I should just like to ask the rapporteur very briefly whether the rapporteur believes that too many citizenships have been given, even to too many people who should never have had them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182242	Thank you. That is certainly a very good starting point. What just puzzles me in this whole debate, and that is actually what I asked the Minister about earlier, is why, when we are quite specific, we cannot see that there are some countries with which we have rather bad experience, and some others with which we have very good experience, we will not allow the Members of Parliament to do what, incidentally, was actually the intention of the constitutional provision that the right of entry should be granted by law. This is not a right that some people misunderstand it to be, it is something that is granted by law. Why, then, is it not possible to divide up the bill so that we really have the opportunity to vote against them, that we have bad experiences and yes to those with whom we have good experience?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182328	Let me start by stating that I am 100%. I agree with Mrs Mette Thiesen that it is not a right. It is quite an important part to get involved in this discussion, because often the debate on citizenship is reduced, because there are basically some parties in the Folketing who think it is a right. Fortunately, then, we are some other parties who think it is a gift or a privilege, or whatever you say you can get awarded by the Danish people. Yes, there are more problems with foreigners from some countries than from others. I just think it is too late to intervene in that discussion when we get to where citizenship is to be granted. We must take action in the past to limit the influx of those countries where we know there are greater challenges than from other countries. So I think it is a little late to intervene in the application for citizenship; I would rather it was done earlier in the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182413	Thank you. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182433	Thank you for the floor. I am not going to explain what is in this motion for a resolution, because I think that has been done very well earlier in the debate. I just want to say that, of course, the SF cannot support this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party, because we really regard it as discrimination. We do this because there are a lot of citizens in this country who have different ethnic backgrounds, non-Western origins, and who come from some of the countries whose population of the Danish People's Party with this proposal would like to exclude from receiving Danish citizenship or at least will have the opportunity to vote against it and thus de facto exclude, depending on what the majority of the Folketing looks like and who are law-abiding citizens who contribute to this society on an equal footing with everyone else. We do not see why we should cut them off from the same comb as the group of citizens who do not contribute and the group of citizens who commit crime. We think this is discrimination, and that is why we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182549	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182551	I did not understand the last part of the rapporteur's rapporteur's speech, but I understood that the rapporteur thinks it is discrimination, and I think that is unbelievable. The fact that it is discrimination to let the Constitution work, that is to say to allow a political decision to be made as to who to give citizenship, is indeed violent. Are there other parts of the basic law that are also discriminatory and that need to be removed so that we can ensure that political decisions cannot be taken in areas where the rapporteur obviously thinks it does not matter to take political decisions if we have a different position from that of the rapporteur himself? Surely it cannot be discrimination that we have a position on who should have citizenship and that we want to have the opportunity to put it into practice. I assume that it is because it is different from that of the SF rapporteur. The Constitution states that it should be given by law, and initially, in the first period of the constitution, people were voted on individually. Was it that discriminatory?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182655	Well, I think it is discrimination, because we do have a set of requirements and criteria for obtaining Danish citizenship which determine who has the opportunity to achieve it here. I know that Mrs Marie Krarup will not like it if I call it that this group has the right to obtain Danish citizenship, so now I say that the group that meets these criteria has the possibility of obtaining Danish citizenship. I think that is the way we have decided, within the framework of the Constitution, to grant citizenship, even if there is a bill in the Parliamentary Chamber which will have to be voted on twice a year afterwards. And I think, as has also been said earlier in the debate, that if you want to change the requirements and criteria, change the ability of some people to obtain Danish citizenship, you have to do so instead of leaving it to a random political majority in the Parliament to decide who should have citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182751	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182752	After all, it is already up to a random political majority, and there has been a quite horrific random political majority for many years that has allowed too many people to acquire citizenship. But it is already the case that a majority in the Folketing has decided how it should be. However, we might just as well decide on other procedures, and that is what we are proposing. And if the rapporteur does not give a damn about those procedures, then the rapporteur can simply vote in favour of all the legislative proposals that are then put forward. After all, the rapporteur or the rapporteur's party simply does not shudder at the fact that there are more legislative proposals. Then you can just vote 'yes' to all of them while we can then choose that there are some to whom we will vote 'yes' and others we will vote 'no' to. So it is strangely fine sensations that mean that the rapporteur will not allow others to have the opportunity to impose their political will on the button that is being pressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182844	In other words, the rapporteur may think so, but I was aware that there is also a question of non-convention in this, precisely because it could be discrimination under the international agreements we have concluded. And that's what I think it is. I think it's clear. If we want to discriminate politically against people on the basis of groups of countries in a random vote in the Assembly rather than incorporating what we want into the criteria for obtaining Danish citizenship, I do not think that is the way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182917	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310182918	I just have to correct the rapporteur, because the rapporteur stands and refers to one of the notes we have received in connection with the citizenship negotiations we are currently holding, and it does not appear from them that it is contrary to anything or, incidentally, discriminatory to divide a bill into different legislative proposals. What they go in and problematize is, if you consistently, a majority in the Folketing, vote no to a particular group, because then you might get into something about discrimination. It is then just for what we say: Well, then it must be so, because we would rather secure Denmark than submit to it. That is what the note says, and it is just that the rapporteur is quite clear that it is not in any way contrary to dividing it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183005	I did not understand the need for this, because I am in complete agreement with Mrs Mette Thiesen that this is the way it is, and that is why we cannot support it. That is why we believe that this is discrimination, because Mrs Mette Thiesen and a given other group of parties will vote against it at any time, even if it would be discrimination, and even if there is nothing in the requirements and criteria that we have for obtaining Danish citizenship that prevents people from a particular group of countries from achieving it if they otherwise comply with the applicable rules. But it is fine for Mrs Mette Thiesen to clarify it, because that obviously makes it clearer for the spectators to know exactly what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183046	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183047	I just need to clarify this because the rapporteur's speech did not make that clear, because it appeared that it was the division of the legislative proposals that was discrimination. But can the rapporteur not just confirm that, according to Paragraph 56 of the Constitution, every member of parliament is bound by his own conviction? If the rapporteur can confirm this, I simply cannot understand why it can be said that it is discriminatory if every member of parliament is given the opportunity to vote in favour of those whom they think they want to give citizenship, and no to those whom they do not want to give citizenship, regardless of how it is divided, that is to say, countries or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183126	I can certainly confirm that every member of parliament, before the Constitution, is bound by his own beliefs, but I also assume that there is a reason why called MP right now is debating requirements and criteria for obtaining Danish citizenship, and that what will be agreed in that debate is what one believes should apply to the acquisition of Danish citizenship. I do not understand why Mrs Mette Thiesen would like both blowing and having flour in her mouth. Either we have some requirements and criteria for obtaining Danish citizenship, or we decide what the wind blows down in the Assembly Hall. I think the first is clearly the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183158	Thank you. And we move on in the rapporteur's line. Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183222	Thank you for the floor, President. The Radical Left is against the motion for a resolution to divide the message of citizenship into two, one of which deals with applicants from MENAP countries. The reason why the Radical Left is opposed to the resolution is that it is contrary to the Convention on Civil Liberties, which states that there must be no citizenship rules which discriminate on grounds of sex, religion, national or ethnic origin. Secondly, the Radical Left will also state that the lawyers of the Ministry have stated that, as a State, liability will be incurred if it is the case that the rules are put in place in this way, and that the consequence of rejecting citizenship through discrimination will mean that the State will incur liability, and then it will also mean that it is the taxpayers who will actually pay compensation for a whole list of applicants. And the Radical Left will not recommend that. So all in all, the Radical Left is against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183350	Thank you. Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183352	I would just like to know whether there are other areas which the Radical Left thinks should be taken out of democracy and transferred to some conventions, because it is also creeping that there are some groups of people in Denmark who can call themselves parties and can vote right down in the Folketing on who they think should have citizenship or not. They certainly follow the Danish constitution, but that is obviously not good enough. It is, of course, part of political life that we vote yes or no to what we think we should vote yes or no to, but it must be taken away from us. That really is a strange attitude. But if you want to pass it on to a number of areas, I would like to hear where it should be, because there are plenty of things that we could pass on to the United Nations, the Council of Europe or anything else, and then, for example, we could. say that tax law is no longer something one can afford to have a political attitude towards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183454	This is of course very interesting and more questions are being asked here. I think I will start with what I think is most exciting, namely about the fact that it has been stated that, of course, we should vote on our own merits. But the way we have organized this area is actually that we vote twice on the same thing, which means that the parties agree on some criteria at the very first round, and then we end up voting for the same people again, and that is really a mess. This motion for a resolution actually means, if it has the consequence that the Danish People's Party wants a majority to set criteria, and then the Danish People's Party wants them to have a second chance, and then they vote against the criteria that have actually already been decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183602	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183604	In the Danish People's Party, we want a decision to be made for each individual applicant, but we have not been able to get through this in the past, so we have therefore supported the agreements that have tightened the requirements of these criteria to come to the law. But we have always wanted, and we have always believed that this should be an individual decision. So we do not believe that the two things are contrary to each other. And I do not see why we should remove democracy in this particular area. Why must it not be a democratic decision, who should have citizenship, since it is now in the constitution that it is a political decision? How can the Radical Left be against democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183641	This is a very, very interesting discussion and I thank you very much for that. The Radical Left is in fact very much in agreement with the fact that, in this way, there is a democratic short-circuit in the way we act in the area of citizenship, because the consequence of this resolution will be that the criteria on which the vote was based are precisely not being followed. So the Danish People's Party has had to say: okay, then we can agree on x-, y- and z-criteria, but yet it ends up with some people on the list who wouldn't have been on the list if it was that they had followed the wishes of the Danish People's Party and if they had 90 seats, and then it ends with this proposal short-circuiting the democratic process by wanting to have another chance to vote no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183739	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183740	Thank you. It is quite true that both the Danish People's Party and I know this from what I have heard the rapporteur say earlier but also New Citizens are more interested in protecting Denmark than we do in submitting to international conventions that have been made in a different time and for a different purpose. I would just like to hear the Radical Left about something, and unfortunately I think I know the answer. But the Radical Left therefore believes, and now the rapporteur nods, that it is more important to submit to international conventions than to protect Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183817	Thank you very much. Well, that's an interesting angle. In other words, the National Convention says that citizenship rules must not discriminate, and the Constitution also says that it must be the case that religion, for example, does not discriminate against rights. In this way, the Constitution actually interacts with the Convention on Civil Liberties. So I think what you have to do is try to see what the intention is actually in the constitution. It also says that there should be no discrimination on the grounds of religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310183912	The paragraph of the Constitution that the rapporteur is talking about is not at all about citizenship. It is not a right to obtain Danish citizenship. Now I know that the rapporteur likes to stand and hold some very, very long and slightly dull speeches about all sorts of conventions that are a little dusty, but the fact is that it is we who sit in here who should vote on who, on our own conviction, should have Danish citizenship. It does not concern any other convention or anything else. We're the ones sitting here. Why, then, does the Radical Left still think that it is more important to comply with some international conventions instead of protecting Denmark? This would, of course, be a new break for the Radical Left, because the Radical Left has been at the forefront of granting citizenship to a whole lot of people who should never have had it and, moreover, stood in the forefront of an incredibly misguided immigration policy. But it could be nice if the Radical Left would actually protect Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184002	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184006	I can say many things in this respect, but what New Citizens actually want is to short-circuit the democratic process, so that the criteria agreed by the Folketing in a debate where it is so that you look at the mandates of who has the most seats and who can gather the most seats are trumped. New citizens want to short-circuit the entire democratic process by persuading their own perception. All of a sudden, regardless of the criteria that have led to the inclusion of applicants on a list, we want to impose a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184052	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184103	Thank you for that, President. The area of citizenship has become a very complex area in recent years. Tightenings have been at the top of changing governments' agenda, and the Danish People's Party has got many things through which in practice it makes it very difficult to obtain Danish citizenship. There can be few in this Chamber who can be in doubt that Enhedslisten has a completely different approach to citizenship than the proposers from the Danish People's Party have. We believe in the Enhedslisten that it should generally be easier to obtain Danish citizenship, so that we do not find ourselves in a situation like today where more and more Danish citizens do not have the full civil rights that belong to a democracy. Limitations on the length of holidays abroad and the lack of voting rights in parliamentary elections are just some of the things that maintain people in a position where they are given second-class status. They must go to work, they must pay their taxes, they must contribute in every way to society in the same way as the rest of us, but rights on an equal footing with us must obviously not be given. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that everyone born in this country must acquire citizenship much earlier than is possible today. As the system is today, you can, for example. be excluded from going on a study trip with your classmates because you do not have a Danish passport. Where is the reasonableness of that? We also believe that children born outside Denmark, but who have had most of their upbringing here, should have much easier access to citizenship than they do today. It is not because it is unreasonable to make demands on foreigners who want citizenship. We think it is reasonable to be Danish if you have the conditions to take Danish courses and that you have to live permanently in Denmark, just as we do not think that you should be able to obtain citizenship the day after you have been convicted in a murder case. But today's demands in this area are far too harsh. When I look specifically at the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party, I would say that I think it has been based on a rather messy mix-up of a lot of different issues. The comments point out that the reason for the desire for a group of countries is that some applicants come from countries where citizens generally have characteristics that cause problems in Denmark. I would like to start by stating that I can recognise that there are challenges with integration in Denmark. But when we talk about citizenship, we are talking about something where integration is no longer relevant. Because when you live up to the conditions that exist to apply for citizenship, you are more than well integrated into Danish society. You are almost to be regarded as a model citizen who meets requirements that very many Danish citizens would not be able to meet. You must be self-supporting and must have been it for many years, you must not have been on long journeys out of the country, you must pay your tax, you must be able to Danish at a high level and document it by various tests, and you even know Danish culture better than many politicians in the Folketing, because you have passed your Danishism test and thus proved that you know that Matador was sent on television for the first time in 1978 and that women were given the right to vote in 1915. With the rules we have today for achieving citizenship, it is therefore not at all relevant to talk about integration challenges. These people are quite integrated into Danish society. The comments also highlight a lot of crime statistics, but they are not relevant either, because there is already a need for good character for Danish citizenship. The people who today can apply for citizenship by law are not criminals, and therefore they are not included in the comments made in the proposal. In addition, discrimination will be involved if people who meet the same conditions cannot obtain citizenship because their origin is wrong. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184507	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184509	I am a little surprised that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is so convinced that one is an integrated model citizen when one acquires citizenship. I wish it were so and that it meant that one's heart was really beating for Denmark, but unfortunately we have seen plenty of examples that, after they have acquired citizenship, even if they have been able to meet the requirements, people have gone to Syria or have advocated going to Syria as Syrian warriors. So it's not really what's being said. There is no guarantee. Unfortunately, people can live up to these demands and yet land in something that we do not want at all. That's one thing, and that's a fact. The second is: if Enhedslisten is convinced that everyone is well integrated model citizens and will vote in favour of everyone who meets the criteria, then can Enhedslisten not just care that there are some others who would like to have some additional criteria that would allow us to vote against some? Why is it that it hurts on the Enhedslisten that the rest of us have a political attitude that it is stupid to give citizenship to some who come from some countries where you see that there are widespread problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184627	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184628	First of all, the fact that you are well integrated does not rule out crime. I assume that there are some of the people who are Danish citizens who were born and raised in Denmark, who were born of parents whose ancestors have been generations in Denmark and who might even be confident to be Danish from the heart, who also commit crime. These are two very different things, so being well integrated, I find it hard to see why you couldn't commit crime. For there are plenty of examples of this unless the Danish People's Party believes that everyone who is a criminal in Denmark is not integrated and therefore should not be a national either. So the two discussions have nothing to do with each other. In relation to the question of what hurts, I would say that it is that criteria such as this are being set, that it is country-related matters that determine whether you can become a national. We are basically in the Enhedslisten of the view that there should be objective criteria, and the fact that you come from a particular country is not, in our view, an objective criterion which should define whether you can obtain citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184743	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184745	But that's just against the facts. It is an objective criterion from which one comes; it is an objective criterion from which one comes; and culture is crucial. Wanting to fight for the Islamic State is not just common crime. It's not the same as stealing a pack of gummi down in Brugsen. It is something quite different which suggests that one has an ideology or a religious fanaticism that has nothing to do with Denmark. So this is an integration problem. Will the rapporteur not admit that there is a difference between religious, fanatical crimes and ordinary crime, for example? Is it a crime of enrichment that the former has more to do with integration than the latter?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184831	No. There are things that are legal, and then there are things that are illegal, and if you commit something illegal, then you have to be punished, and that is what we sit in here and pass laws on. We provide a framework for penalties for things we are characterised as crimes, and that is how we punish in a rule of law. It is the way to create a framework of penalties for people who have committed a crime, and that is how it should be. Then there was one more thing, but I simply do not remember what the second question was about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184905	Thank you. There are no more comments. We move on to the next rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310184937	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for this very interesting proposal. We are in the middle of negotiations on new rules for Danish citizenship. We in Conservatives are very, very happy about these negotiations. It's something we've been fighting for a long time. A key concern for us Conservatives in these negotiations is precisely the possibility of individual treatment. We do not, as a party, have a desire to divide the bill by country; we actually want to go much deeper, that is. the individual examination of each applicant within the Committee. I also believe that the parties are familiar with our other proposals: individual conversations, a ceiling on non-EU citizens and non-Nordic citizens and, of course, a future priority, significantly stricter rules in relation to criminals. If you have ever received a prison sentence, you should never be able to get Danish passports and also tighten the rules so that you have to pass Danish exam 3 and not just Danish exam 2 with a derogation. But, of course, we take all that in the negotiations. We sincerely hope that we will be able to have individual treatment in committee. Then the Danish People's Party, if it is a wish, can, of course, vote according to country breakdown. This is not something we Conservatives are going to do, but then each party will have the opportunity to vote in accordance with the party's or rapporteur's beliefs. So, a little square maybe we want to go further than this. We do not want countries to be divided, but we want a division right down to the individual applicant. Of course, we hope that the Danish People's Party will support us in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185112	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185114	Well, thank you so much for supporting some of it. I am very pleased that Conservatives have agreed to partly support our ideas. This has been fought for too long, we can now hear, perhaps for a whole year. Well, we've only fought for it since 1995. But what I would like to ask is: will the rapporteur not also support our fight for individual votes on people down here? Because it is not enough to sit down and give individual treatment to the requests for derogations, as we do in the Committee on the Rights of Citizens; it should also be possible to vote down here so that everyone can see what they are voting on each individual. I assume that is what the rapporteur thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185213	What we are proposing is individual treatment within the committee itself. I understand where the rapporteur is going with this, but if the parties come up with exactly the same resolution in committee as in the Parliamentary Chamber, then we see no reason why we should vote once in committee on each and then vote exactly the same in this Chamber. All other things being equal, I do not see it as a sensible use of 179 members of the Danish Parliament's time, if it is the case that the outcome will be the same as in the committee, and it will all be equal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185247	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185248	Hopefully, a ceiling will now be set on how many people can obtain citizenship so that there will not be so many people to vote on. But I now think that there is something irresponsible about the fact that it should not become public what you vote. I think it should be so that you can say afterwards: that is what you did, and was it right now? But I also think it is best that everyone can see it immediately and that they are forced to vote 'yes' to those you want and 'no' to those you do not want. In other words, we would still be forced away to vote against some people to whom we really want to vote 'yes', in other words because it is settled in the Committee on the Rights of the Child. So, as Members of Parliament, we will still have to press some buttons in relation to some people that we do not want. So we as a party will not be able to show our clear position on what we want. So I don't think that's the full solution Conservatives are going to bring.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185344	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185346	Far down the road, I would actually say that the negotiations are on the right track, in other words overall. If we can have individual conversations, a ceiling on non-EU citizens and non-Nordic citizens, significantly stricter rules, also in relation to Danish and crime, then we are approaching the fact that those who actually then eventually come to the bill will hopefully be happy for everyone, but if nothing else for almost everyone are some that we all want to give Danish citizenship. But to see 179 Members sitting and voting on each candidate when we have already done so in committee, I just see as duplication of effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185423	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185426	Thank you. After all, there are virtually no limits to rivalry about who should be the hardest and extreme party against those you do not like from other countries. I think it is an unsightly team that is now, and that almost only has that policy as its main concern and does not care how the Danish society is going to function. I would like to ask: in the 1950s we decided that we were opposed to mind control. When we made the Bonn-Copenhagen declarations for minorities on both sides of the border, we said that whoever feels Danish is Danish. That is the principle we are working on among minorities north and south of the border, and that means that if you feel it, we have decided that they can never be held accountable for whether they are now real Danes. Nor can we measure whether they are Danes. That is the principle, and it was, after all, an inheritance from conditions in Germany from the 1930s up to 1945, which made us oppose mental control. Isn't it mind control that you're going to introduce now with these strange criteria that you're making up and building on and building on? This means that it will be a very, very subjective assessment of people who will be the basis for obtaining their citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185549	After all, we want to return to the very constitution, to the spirit of the Constitution. As I have been told, the first chairman of the Committee on Bodily Rights was Grundtvig himself. The first applicants were six people and, as I understand it, three of them were former German soldiers, and they came to a real conversation with the very chairman of the Committee on Bodily Rights, Grundtvig. So when we propose to introduce conversations, it is not just to introduce it, it is to reinstate it. The whole thing with the "if you can call it a pile of thousands of weddings that, because they have lived up to some square rules, but perhaps in reality are supporters of the Islamic State or deeply radicalized, can get the Danish citizenship, we want to get out of it completely. We do not think there is anything wrong with saying that one should then be the Danish mind. One must actually want Denmark to be able to obtain Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185639	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185640	But do we not agree that after 1945, when we were going to make the agreement on minorities north and south of the border, we agreed that we are not doing mind control? Mind layer control is something very ugly. I'm not going to mention who invented it in the last century. That's when the Jews got hurt. I just ask: is the rapporteur in favour of mind control and that one person should assess, after a conversation, whether one is able to be Danish? And will this also apply to those you do not like in Denmark at some point? After all, there is virtually no limit to how far the rapporteur and the two rapporteurs from the other national conservative parties will go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185727	I think it's completely beside saying that it's crazy when we Conservatives just want to go back to the spirit of the Constitution... the way the Constitution was written, the way the Constitution was implemented in the first few years after it was signed and introduced in 1849. I think it is the epitome of common sense, and I am sure that Mr. Christian Juhl, if he had a company, also would not just hire people without taking them to a conversation first. So to say that you have to have a conversation to get the Danish passport, I do not see anything problematic in it, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185804	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310185848	Thank you. In fact, the way in which citizenship is granted in Denmark has always puzzled me. It has always puzzled me that you pool it all together on one big bill, pears and bananas and everything mixed together in one, and that you do not have the opportunity to assess individually. We do not want to give citizenship to those who come from Muslim countries where we have statistical evidence that they and their descendants are more criminals when they come here. Nor do we believe that criminals should have citizenship. They must be deported and, if they are aliens, they must be shown consistently and after the first sentence. There are a lot of things in the way citizenship is awarded today that amaze me. But the whole intention of the constitution was precisely that, in addition to being carried by one's own convictions as a member of the parliament, one could grant citizenship by law, and as previously stated here, there was another way of doing it all the way back to yes, Grundtvig, but also at the very beginning when the constitution worked. In other words, we think it is entirely legitimate for countries to be divided. It is perfectly legitimate to have an attitude towards • and we can see it purely statistically that there are just some countries with which we have poor experience. I don't want them to have citizenship. That's common sense. And then there are just some countries where we have great experience. In New Citizens we would be happy to assess individually, and if we had to look at each individual candidate individually, look at their motivational application, look at what their background is and what else is in their dossier, i.e. a little a la what we are on the Committee of Insights, and also have a conversation with them, then we would automatically get down to very, very few people who could be dealt with properly and thoroughly on an annual basis. So it wouldn't be that we saw these huge pools half-yearly with 2,000-3,000-4,000, which were given citizenship with closed eyes... as a former rapporteur said... where people just vote in favour. No, it would actually be an opportunity to assess individually, and then you could divide it into different laws, and there might be a maximum of 200-400 pieces a year, which would then have Danish citizenship. That would also be quite reasonable in our view. However, we think this is a very good proposal, because it is a proposal in which it is precisely suggested that those with whom we statistically know that we have really bad experience pool together on a legislative proposal, and then you have several other legislative proposals with, for example, those with which we have good experience. That is common sense, so we naturally support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190131	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190140	Thank you. The rapporteur said that we citizens would like to come in and assess very closely. I am not at all surprised that New Citizens think that it should be them and the Danish People's Party alone who should be allowed to do so. But I would like to ask: how far does the discrimination that New Citizens want go? There are certainly also poorly integrated Swedes, Bulgarians, Germans, Italians, who are exempt from this rule on countries, I understand from some of those who have spoken today. Where do the boundaries go? There are also dunes and northern yutches, which are not as well integrated as Copenhageners, and vice versa. I mean, you can go on for a long time. That is why I asked the question: are you really supporters of mind control down to the depths that the Germans were between 1933 and 1945?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190232	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190233	It's amazing what to hear from a communist. It's pretty crazy. This isn't about mind control. This is about common sense. It is clear, of course, that this is a little bit of the questioner. It is basically about voting in accordance with one's own convictions. That is quite clear from the constitution. This also applies, of course, to those who must have citizenship. We are just saying openly and honestly: we know that there are some with whom we have bad experiences, and we know that there are some with which we have better experiences. In fact, we would like to have the opportunity to vote in favour of some. Right now there is one large-scale legislative proposal on which everyone is on, and we are voting against it because there are very many that we do not want to grant citizenship. But as Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned earlier, for example, there are Danish-minded Southern Schleswigers, whom we would like to give citizenship. There are probably also some Canadians, some Americans and all sorts of others who contribute and benefit Denmark, which we would like to give citizenship, but which we cannot today because it is all pooled together on a bill. So a more individual assessment is just common sense
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190335	I just wanted to say that Mr. Christian Juhl is from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190339	Thank you. The Communists got out of parliament in 1978, no, it's not true, it was in the 1980s. But I would also like to say that if you use country groups, you are forced to generalise. Then there may be nine good people who have become Danish all the way into the heart, who work hard with everything New Citizens would like them to do. Of course, they have their own opinions and beliefs. That is what we are in favour of in Denmark, namely that there is, after all, that freedom for them. Then it is a nasty generalization just to say: people from these countries must be excluded, which means that they can work their whole lives, but they can never become Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190422	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190423	Yeah, that's the way it is, and that's one of the reasons for that. Christian Juhl's party has been involved in conducting a completely misguided foreign policy for decades. But yes, it is not a right to have citizenship, and yes, you can live and live a nice life in Denmark without having citizenship, and if you comply with our legislation, adapt, etc., it is quite fine. But it is not a right to have Danish citizenship, so of course it will be so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190447	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190449	Now I was a little confused here at the end, because now the rapporteur says that this is the case, and then there will be some people who are going to vote against, to whom you would actually have voted in favour, and if you comply with Danish law, meet the criteria and something like that, you should actually be able to have citizenship (Mette Thiesen No, that is not what I said). Okay, then the rapporteur will have to explain what it was. So I just have to ask: is it that you come from a particular country simply enough to be disqualified? A citizen who comes from a particular country will never be able to obtain citizenship, is the New Citizen's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190533	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190534	Yes, it is. As I said in my speech: those who come from Muslim countries where we have statistical evidence that both they and their descendants are more criminal when they come here than Danes should of course not have Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190547	Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190548	But how do New Citizens want to grant citizenship? Does it have to be just after which country you come from? Or is it also about a concrete individual assessment of whether you meet all these criteria and are Danish from the heart? And if you meet all the criteria, why is it so disqualifying that you come from a particular country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190609	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190610	That is because we have incredibly bad experiences with the countries that I am mentioning here. There are some specific countries with which we have incredibly poor experience, and we should not assign any more people from this citizenship at all. What I started by saying to the rapporteur was that one can easily live and live quite well in Denmark without obtaining Danish citizenship. It is a gift that one gets; it is not a right that one has. But we would very much like to go down to a much more individual level. And we are clearly of the opinion that people from these Muslim countries should not give citizenship. But beyond that, you could easily make an individual assessment. We'd much rather. But it will also automatically limit the number of people who would acquire citizenship much lower.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190649	The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190654	Thank you to the rapporteur. I just want to ask specifically what kind of countries you have to come from in order not to be able to acquire citizenship. Is Iran one of those countries? That is to say, if you come from there, you cannot have citizenship and thus not participate in democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190707	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190713	Yes, Iran is one of those countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190717	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190718	It's just that New Citizens had a parliamentary candidate at the last election, which had an Iranian background, and that person wouldn't be able to run. Well, I guess that proves that there are people who have fled Iran and who have fled Islamism, but who New Citizens permanently exclude from obtaining citizenship. And I think it is a little strange that New Citizens think that you should not have citizenship if you have roots in Iran, but that you could run for New Citizens at the last elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190737	It is absolutely true that we had it. Well, the reason we're saying this is because we generally have bad experience with those who come from these Muslim countries. And we stand by that completely. Well, I'm sure we have some people who've understood like the candidate for parliament that the questioner mentioned earlier about how big the problems are. But this is basically about protecting Denmark; it's about looking after Denmark. And there has been a misguided immigration policy for decades, which has been thrown around with Danish citizenship for decades, and then we can see clearly: with whom have we had good experience, and with whom have we had bad experiences? And then we have to act on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190817	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There are no more brief comments, and there is no one from the Liberal Alliance immediately, so the next one we should welcome is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310190842	Thank you. In Denmark, citizenship is granted by law. It is a political decision, it is certainly in the constitution, and in our opinion it is a very good thing. But it is a problem that you can only say 'yes' or 'no' to the whole range of applicants at once. This really makes impossible the political position which the Constitution allows and which was also implemented in the beginning of the constitution. In fact, there are very large differences between applicants. We see in the statistics that some countries' citizens are completely unproblematic, while others are actually very problematic. They are particularly concerned with people from Muslim countries, the so-called MENAP countries or MENAP countries, the Middle East, North Africa and Turkey. They stand out in the statistics so much that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration has actually begun to list citizens from these countries in a particular category in order to gain light on developments and to see how integration is really taking place. Therefore, in the Danish People's Party, we think it is a good idea to divide the proposals for citizenship into groups of countries. Of course, you can have different political preferences. Some attach great importance to culture and want to protect the Danish language, to create a cultural cannon and to have national borders, and to have sovereignty. Others are globalists and believe that Danish culture must survive in a free competition with the rest of the world, as well as that national borders are a stumbling block and sovereignty is something one shares. But we in the Danish People's Party are national conservative, we want to preserve Denmark with our very special Christian Protestant culture with a very high degree of freedom. That is our policy and we do not believe that it is possible to retain and protect this culture of freedom if we give citizenship to a large group of people with a culture that is contrary to ours, and Muslim culture is contrary to ours. That is why we want to vote against most of them from the MENAPT countries, and those from these countries to which we will not vote, we can try to grant derogations through the Committee on the Rights of the Child, for example. No need to say no to persecuted Christians from Iran. That is why we want this division. I am well aware that the globalists are indifferent and think that differences in culture and religion are unspeakable because they cannot see the differences themselves and do not give them any weight, but they can simply vote in favour of all the legislative proposals and not give the emphasis that it has been divided up. However, if we are to take the Constitution seriously that granting citizenship is a political decision, we should make room for this very thing, that is, a political decision, and recognise that we can have different political views on different cultures. Without a division of laws, you can't actually pursue politics. And usually you split bill when a party wants it. For us, it would make sense to vote against the law with MENAPT countries, and for others it would make sense to vote yes. In the Danish People's Party we attach immense importance to the area of citizenship. We believe that Danish citizenship is the innermost and most important line of defence of the Danish nation. We cannot let people who might undermine the cohesion of the Danish nation pass this line. Because if we lose our culture and the community about our culture, and that's what cohesion means, then Denmark ceases to exist as a nation, and then we lose our country. That is why since 2001 the Danish People's Party has been biting on the table and fighting bit by bit to tighten the rules for the granting of citizenship, and we have come a long way. The laws that once granted five-digit numbers of citizenship are now down to award 3-4,000. The circle has also changed from the fact that it was once mainly Muslims, to the fact that the proportion of Muslims today is considerably fewer. This is vitally important. But we are far from achieving it. We want far more austerity: we want a ceiling on the number of citizenships; we want maximum. is given 1,000 a year. We want those who have married a Dane to take precedence over the acquisition of citizenship. We want the laws on citizenship to be divided into groups of countries, as we see them here, or we want to vote individually on each individual; that, of course, is the very best thing, and we do not need the groups of countries. We want applicants for citizenship to provide information about their religious affiliation, so that when you vote on the individual, you know more about who they are. And we want citizenship to be granted conditionally, so that it can be deprived of the right to commit crime, for example. We want reservations to be made about the UN Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness. And then we want to stop double citizenship. All of this is what we want first and foremost because it is an enormously messy area, because there has been an irresponsible immigration policy for too many years, which means that a very large population in Denmark is jumping to citizenship, perhaps not now, but then in 5 or 10 years' time, and so we have to be at the forefront of development and make sure that we do not suddenly get forced to give citizenship to some very large groups of people, whom we know there is a very, very great risk of never becoming people who are real Danes and want to work for the benefit of Denmark and continue the Danish culture of freedom. That's why we have to do these tightenings on this area. I am, of course, sorry that there are so few who agree with us and will support our proposals here. I think it is a pity, but of course it is not surprising that the parties that have been behind the insanely irresponsible policy in the area of immigration and foreigners do not want to be involved in the wrestling that we are proposing here, nor do we want to be involved in the break-up that we are proposing here. However, we are grateful for the support of the new citizens and the partial support of the Conservatives. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310191612	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310191615	We have generally had bad experiences, we heard before, and that means that someone in this Chamber has generally had bad experiences with some other people. I also have bad experiences with some of my political opponents once in a while, but I do feel that I respect all people for their views, for their beliefs, for their opinions, for their culture, if it does not harm others. I thought that was a general Danish characteristic, that is to say that we think Danes, and thus we have an open and dynamic society. that a law in Denmark actually applies to all Danes. Sometimes there may be differences between East and West Denmark in legislation, there may also still be differences between women and men in legislation, unfortunately, and now we must have even more arbitrary and inappropriate. I would like to hear Mrs Krarup: is it really the case that she wants to divide that vote into 500 individual votes, in other words more votes than we have a whole year in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310191727	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310191729	We would very much like it to be, yes, so that we could see who has taken a stand on for and against. We would think that was the right thing to do, and that was what was done originally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310191742	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310191743	Well now we both need more people who can help us in Denmark to get the country to drive, and therefore we import a lot of labour, both educated and untrained, and we also have many who would like to, as we then have to decide. This means that up to 50%, up to 80%, perhaps even more of our votes here, can be about fine feelings for the Danish People's Party. My fine feelings of trying to do something for the Danes in the social, cultural and climate fields are then pushed aside completely, because it will not be physically possible to have a vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310191827	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310191829	I think it is a mistake to import labour, as the rapporteur said just now, and then give them citizenship. What's this weird thing? In other words, we are not such an immigrant country where we want more people to come here and have citizenship. The Danish people are a kind of family in which we would like to take them into the family, who really will belong, who has married another family member, of course, but everyone should not just be able to come and ask for Danish citizenship and get it. It is a very special gift, for which there must be very special conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310191919	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310191942	The debate is open. The first to be welcomed is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192006	Thank you very, very much. The Danish People's Party proposes with this motion for a resolution that future draft legislation on citizenship notification be supplemented by information on applicants' religious affiliations. And I would like to start by saying that the government cannot support the resolution. I myself believe that it is easier to integrate into Denmark if you have grown up with a culture similar to the Danish one, but that does not mean that it is impossible for immigrants with a religion other than the Evangelical-Luthorian Christianity to be integrated into Denmark. Thousands of immigrants from Muslim countries, for example, are. become a well-functioning part of our society. Many of them have also become Danish citizens. Therefore, what matters to me is not the religion of the applicants, but their willingness to become part of our country and our people. Therefore, I would like the requirements for applicants to be directed towards their dependent base, their Danish knowledge, their stay in Denmark, their criminal record and their willingness to respect fundamental Danish values, including Danish democracy. I am not in favour of a society in which rights and opportunities are defined by religious backgrounds. That is why I am fundamentally opposed to taking a stand on religion when we grant citizenship. Some groups of people may end up being discriminated against on the basis of their religion. Moreover, I do not think that the authorities and the state should go and collect information about the religious affiliation of citizens. Moreover, the proposal will not be included within the framework of Denmark's international commitment. It follows from a large number of conventions that a state must not discriminate on the basis of religion. But conventions are not what matters to me. What is crucial here is that we meet people as individuals and not as Muslims, and that the people who acquire citizenship do not get it because of or despite their religious affiliation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192210	Thank you for your ministerial speech. There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192216	I understand that the Minister is against information. The Minister does not want politicians to know what they are voting on when they vote on the Committee on Bodily Rights or in the Parliamentary Chamber. How is it wrong to get that information? There are some who can avoid adding that weight, and then there are others who will add that weight. How is it wrong to give information? I think it is a strange patronizing attitude to have, that is to say, that it should be forbidden for us to obtain further information about people, since we now know that Denmark has a culture of freedom based on the Christian view of human beings, and that Islamic culture is very much opposed to it, and that it is therefore much more difficult for people who come from an Islamic culture to be integrated into Denmark. We know that. We have evidence of this for a very long time. We must not know that when we vote in the Chamber. How can it be wrong for us to get that information?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192324	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192325	But should the state obtain information about people's religion? That would be a huge new break in Denmark. What if there is another party wishing to obtain information on the sexuality of candidates or on which party they intend to vote? I really think it's a slippery slope to move out on. And if there is a majority in the Folketing wishing to obtain the information about the religion of the applicants, then they can agree and write into a circular that people must cross a field of when they apply for citizenship. But it is not going to be me as a minister who obtains that information. I am really, really sceptical that we are meeting citizens with a desire to know what their religion is and that it should be included as part of the granting of citizenship. I really think it is crucial that we stand firm here and say that there are strict requirements for becoming a Danish citizen, and there must be, because they have been too lax in the past, but we have to insist that whatever religion people have, the starting point is if they meet the requirements that people are granted citizenship. Then we have a security screening from Special Branch, but that's another story.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192434	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192436	Now we are not asking the Minister to call each applicant either. We imagine that you can easily mark a cross when you are asked for all the other things you have to give up in order to apply for citizenship in Denmark. How can it be wrong to ask people whether you are a member of a church or another religion? Why would it be criminal? We don't ask what people believe in it they may have to, but if they have a membership somewhere. That is objective information, just as nationality is. There's nothing wrong with that. Some attach weight to it, others do not attach weight to it. And it will be the political parties who think it does not matter, free to ignore it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192520	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192521	I'm not saying it's criminal. We are in the Parliamentary Chamber and we can decide what to say in the legislation. I am just saying that it is a huge bias to move on to the idea that the state, the authorities, should start to approach citizens and obtain religious information for first proceeding in a ministry and then legal proceedings in a parliament. I think that is an extremely sloppy plan, and I would really like to warn against us simply skating over it so easily and saying that it is just because we are obtaining information and that it is simply to qualify the information and the adoption of a bill in the Folketing. I really think we should be vigilant here and vote against this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192558	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The first rapporteur to be put on the floor is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192622	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party is proposing to supplement the bill on the communication of citizenship with information on the religious affiliation of applicants. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that the religious affiliation of future Danish citizens is a private matter. In addition, the motion for a resolution collides with our international obligations. With immigration to Denmark from the Islamic world, problematic values have come to this over time, which is contrary to our Danish values of freedom. This is true, for example. the view of women, homosexuals, Jews, religious criticism and freedom of expression, and this has created massive integration problems. However, there are also people from countries in the Middle East in Denmark who have integrated and who contribute positively. If you perform your duty and comply with the strict conditions we impose in order to obtain Danish citizenship, the applicant must of course be able to apply for and obtain Danish citizenship. As the proposers know, we in the Social Democratic Party are always open to discussing whether the current conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship are tight enough and we are also in the process of negotiations on citizenship at the moment. For this reason, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the resolution at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192731	There is a brief comment, so Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen needs to stay on the platform. Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192736	We think that it is fine for applicants to give up their religious affiliation in confidence, so that it only comes to the knowledge of the members of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. We have no objection to this; it does not have to stand directly on the legislation, as we did first in the motion for a resolution. But it really seems strange to swing up on the very high horse, the very high convention horse, saying that it is discrimination and that it is, uh, against all kinds of sacred conventions, because how can it be if you treat things differently? In other words, we do not intend to vote consistently against men or women, but we do know what gender they have. They're gonna have to give that up. They must also give up whether they are married or not. They must also give up which country they come from. Is it also prohibited, and is it also extremely discriminatory? It really seems strange that you cannot just get the information that we think is important because we think culture is very, very important. Others think it doesn't matter. Why is it that this information is wrong in itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192847-2	I believe that one can quite quickly find out what religion people have by looking at which country they come from. It's very objective. In other words, if we are talking about Iraqis, perhaps 10% will be Christians, unfortunately only 10% because most of them have been persecuted or thrown out, which is a serious problem. And it's the same in Egypt. If it is applicants from Morocco, it is perhaps 100 per cent who have Muslim background. That's how you can decide. You can pull this information out very easily. It is a question of whether one should personally ask such a question, and I think that those countries where one specifically asks about religion, for example. Lebanon, where it is on people's passports, is not very nice society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192922	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310192922-2	There are a lot of communities that are really not very nice, and Denmark ends up being one of those. That's the problem. We end up being such a country that is not at all nice to be in, because we give citizenship to people who cannot live up to the freedom that we have in Denmark and who do not want to preserve it. Besides, it is not true that religion always follows national boundaries. It is precisely in order to allow for individual treatment that we want this information. Because you can actually be a fully Christian and from Iran, even though Iran is a Muslim country. And I also heard that the rapporteur had a great deal of sympathy for our proposals at the beginning, until perhaps we were knocked into place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193005	Here you go, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193005-2	What I said was that when we negotiate, we are, of course, open to listening to all parties. I have also said that when the Radical Left has come up with something that I thought was a little different, or what they call it, we have said that we are looking at it. But I have always said that it must of course be legal. And now you can draw such information in many ways; that is what I am saying. I think that when you can see which country the applicant comes from, you can draw your own conclusions. Yes, you can be a persecuted Christian from Iran or that little Jewish minority they have, but you can also have Muslim background and be persecuted by the mullah regime in Iran.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193032	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193036	However, this is the lowest thing I have yet done in terms of steps towards a totalitarian society, if one is now going to register for one's faith. What if you are also going to register for what you say, what you mean politically, and what else you think in private? It will be a great society to live in if it is the model of the Danish People's Party. I would like to hear: when the rapporteur says that the Socialists cannot vote in favour of the proposal at this stage, is it because the rapporteur could well imagine doing so another time? Or could we get such a clear message from the rapporteur, whom we received from the Minister, that it was certainly not with him as a minister that this sort of thing was carried out, whether or not the Folketing would implement it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193125	No, I agree with the Minister that we are not going to support the sitting and questioning of people. That is why I explained to Mrs Krarup that one can easily form one's own impressions. Because you can find out where people come from, so if you have a problem with there being many Iraqis in Denmark, then you have to vote no to them. Right now, as far as I know, Britons are the largest group that has acquired Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193143	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193144	That's not exactly what I asked. I asked about the rapporteur's speech, in which he concluded by saying that the Social Democratic Party cannot vote for such a bill at this stage. It pissed me a little in that direction, for then it was like opening up a back door in that you might do it in a special situation. In other words, I would like to have quite clear answers from the government for which I am a parliamentary basis, to such a crucial question as to whether one wants to take a step towards a totalitarian society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193217	I have answered Mr. Christian Juhl. I have also made it very clear that the Social Democrats will not be asking questions about people's religious beliefs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193225	Thanks to the Social Democrat rapporteur there are no more brief remarks. We shall then welcome the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193244	There is only one Denmark. And even if Denmark does not have to stand still, we have to take care of what makes our country unique. That is why granting citizenship is not something we should take lightly. We must make an effort, we must think carefully, we must also think more carefully than we are doing today. We must dare to make more stringent demands, both for people to support themselves, for them to be Danish, for them to stay on the narrow path of virtue, but also for those who, as Grundtvig said, have a fire for their country. They must have a desire to become Danish, and they must have embraced Denmark. Because if you as a foreigner come to Denmark to become a Danish citizen, it must not be to change Denmark; then it must be to become Danish. That is why we in the Left have proposed that we should have a much more value-based approach focusing on Danish values for the award of Danish citizenship. We must demand that you have taken Denmark to heart if you want a Danish passport. That is the policy of the Left, and we are fighting for it to be implemented in the political negotiations that are currently taking place on new rules for the granting of citizenship. But what is not We would like to say that if one insists on following one's religion so much that when it conflicts with Danish legislation, one opts out of religion and Danish legislation, then of course one should not have Danish passports. But this does not mean that people should be excluded from the bill on citizenship notification on the basis of their religion. Basically, we do not think that the state should build a religious catalogue of those who live in Denmark. For what must determine whether you are awarded the gift of becoming a Danish citizen must not be your private faith; it must be whether you have taken Denmark to you and whether you meet the demands we make as a society to those we allow into our community. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193527	There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193531	I think there were some misunderstandings about the proposal here, which I should like to correct. We are not talking about registering people's faith; we are saying that when you apply for citizenship, you have to give up whether you are a member of a religion and what religion it is. We are open to it being given in confidence and only to members of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, who can then pass it on anonymously to others in their parties so that they do not vote blindly down here. In the Danish People's Party we believe that culture matters, and we believe that religion is the crucial ingredient in culture. That is why we are not surprised by the major integration problems that are with Muslims we actually predicted. That is why we think it is quite wise to be careful to give many Muslims citizenship, because if you have a large Muslim group, there will be ghetto formations and all the problems that we see today. Why is it that we are not allowed to vote according to that conviction? Why is it that we must not get this information so that we can implement that policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193647	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193649	The analysis from the Danish People's Party, which says that we have some massive challenges with parallel societies, crime and other things that can be attributed to the groups who have migrated from Muslim countries, I share. That is also why it is important for us to pursue an alien policy that will limit the influx from those parts of the world. But to go from there to the fact that we, as a state, have to collect information about people's religion, we are not in favour, we will not be in favour of that. After all, we are fundamentally sceptical about the state building up files with all sorts of data about citizens. It's a bit against our set of values, so we're sceptical about that, and that's why we're not going to support this proposal. We do not believe that a list of religions should be built up. We believe that there should be stricter requirements for Danish citizenship, but we should not grant citizenship on the basis of people's religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193757	Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193758	Now we must not build up any files, that is to say it is also completely misunderstood. Information shall not be collected. You have to cross, just like you do when you cross, whether you're a man or a woman and what country you come from. And we can destroy the information immediately after the votes. Information shall not be collected. And the rapporteur can vote completely without looking at that information; it is just us who attach importance to them. We think it's important. I can hear that the rapporteur is doing the same, but the rapporteur has just not come so far in his development that he dares to admit it. Muslim culture, Muslim countries, but then not Islam, uh, no, no, no, but that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193837	I shall refrain from discussing Mrs Marie Krarup's and my stages of development from Parliament's platform. To the first part, which deals with such general confidence in the authorities in the processing of citizens' data, I would say that the Left certainly takes a slightly more sceptical line towards the authorities' ability to do so than is experienced in some other parties. We are not necessarily pleased that the state power has a lot of information about the citizens. In relation to the second, the crucial question here is whether people should be granted citizenship on the basis of a religion. We don't think we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193912	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310193914	Now I have heard the rapporteur speak many times, and I think that some of the things the rapporteur says can be called plunder when he says: we must dare to make strict demands, they must not come to Denmark to change Denmark, and they must take Denmark to themselves and such things. So I would like to ask: is the rapporteur not aware that this country is largely built up by people who have come here and helped change it, changing our society? Every year we change this society. Some in the Parliamentary Chamber will change it in one direction and others will change it in the other direction, some will stay standing, and then a few will go backwards. I mean, it's a great process of change that we've been through, at least in my time. Perhaps my great-grandfather would feel that it was almost the same to be born at the house and die at the house and do the same every day. But it's not what Denmark survives on today; it's change and inspiration from a lot of cultures, so we can become more skilled and smarter and better at creating a good society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194027	Sir. Morten Dahlin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194028	Sir. Christian Juhl started by saying that he had heard me say some of the words I said today many times. I would then recommend that Mr. Christian Juhl next time listens a little better, because what I started by saying was: There is only one Denmark, and even if Denmark should not stand still, we have to look after what makes our country unique. Therefore, in my optics it is completely misguided if you want to pursue a policy in which some people come here from some countries and some communities, who have values that are many times worse than the Danish ones, so if you get them here to Denmark and then accept that someone wants to transform Denmark according to those values. That would be stupid. This does not mean that Denmark should not be developed. We are very much in favour of the development of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194115	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194126	Thank you. I also forgot to say that I was glad that there was a little bit of liberalism left and that this totalitarian society, which DF subscribes to, is not the Left's wish. I'm really, really happy about that. In any case, the rapporteur said that he was a little sceptical about the state. I am very sceptical about collecting that kind of information. And when I get to the point of not changing Denmark, I actually think that I expect all citizens to take part in the great process of change that we also need in the three major crises we are currently facing. If we do not use the total capacity of intellectual power that we have, then we have to say that we will not achieve the goal. That's why we need everyone in this process, and that's why they have to make change.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194214	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194215	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl for Mr. Christian Juhl's philosophical considerations about liberalism and what it means to be liberal. I would say that the day I let a communist define what it means to be liberal is the day that is two Thursdays for a week.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194230	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Sir. Morten Dahlin is just going to blow off, and then we can welcome the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194248	Thank you. In fact, I would like to say something that I think I have said earlier this day when we dealt with the previous resolution that it should be possible to categorise legislative proposals according to where people come from in the world, which country you come from. And there I said that we do not think it should be possible to decide whether people should have citizenship, on the basis of where they come from, since that is not part of the criteria we use to give people citizenship. And there is a good reason for that, because you can come from a country from which some others also come, which is not good citizens, and still be a good citizen of society. In the same way, I would say to this that one can of course be a Muslim or Orthodox Christian and still be a good citizen of society and still put the law above one's religious beliefs and still be well integrated. And that's why I don't see the purpose of this. I can hear that the authors of the motion are very concerned that the Danish People's Party should be able to vote against certain characteristics, but we in the SF think it is wrong that we should be able to de facto prevent people from obtaining citizenship when it is not part of the criteria we set when people have to apply. That is why we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194433	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194436	Once again, I can hear that the SF wants to minimize democracy. In other words, the political position that we have is obviously not valid; it must not be expressed in a political decision. We believe that culture means something, we believe that it is crucial what culture exists when we can look at how much freedom one has. The freedom we have in Denmark depends on the Protestant-Christian culture that we have in Denmark. That is absolutely crucial. If there is a majority of Muslims, that culture is gone, freedom is gone. Therefore, it is crucial that there is not a very large group of Muslims in Denmark who get for example. voting rights. We should not be able to attract Muslim immigrants in a large amount, and we would do so if we were to just give citizenship. We want to vote against. SF may not, but how can SF be against us getting that information? How can we be opposed to putting an end to the democracy that we have, where it is a political decision, to vote on who should have citizenship? How, then, can you be against having an informed basis for your political decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194548	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194549	That is because we do not see what relevance it has to the resolution. We do not think that we can cut all people with a particular religion over the same comb. It is all right, then, that Mrs Marie Krarup thinks so, and I think that Mrs Marie Krarup is getting off the ground for that position in the Chamber right now, and that is democracy. However, part of democracy is also the kind of policy that I am pursuing right now, and that is to say that I do not think that Mrs Krarup's position should define the fate of people when they are to acquire citizenship, and that is democracy in its purest form.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194624	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194625	I can then imagine that the SF would like to take the right to vote from a number of people who have the positions that the SF then opposes. Is that how you're supposed to understand it? What could be wrong with obtaining information which could be the basis for voting in the Parliamentary Assembly? SF does not understand that culture is of great importance. No, but don't worry about it. We're also told what sex they have. No one will be voting for that. We are told which nationality they come from. A lot of people don't care about that. Why should one not be told what religious fellowship they are members of? It seems completely baroque to oppose the provision of additional information about the people seeking citizenship in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194709	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194709-2	No, SF is not going to take the right to vote from people who think the same as Mrs Marie Krarup. That is also why the SF has joined the platform here and is discussing with Mrs Marie Krarup. For the rapporteur, who is here, Mrs Krarup acknowledges the views of Mrs Krarup, and I would like to make that clear, because there should be no doubt about that. However, we do not think that your religious beliefs have any relevance as to whether you may acquire citizenship, and if Mrs Marie Krarup thinks it should have relevance, then we think that Mrs Marie Krarup should get it into the negotiations that she is still in with the Minister. After all, the SF is no longer present.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194743	Thank you to Mrs Valentina Berthelsen. There are no more brief comments. And we're gonna have to get drunk on this one, too. Thank you. Then we should welcome the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Susan Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310194806	Thank you, President, and thank you for the floor. The Radical Left is opposed to the motion for a resolution, and this is because, firstly, the proposal to include religion and religious affiliation in the comments on the bill on the declaration of citizenship is contrary to the Convention on Civil Liberties, in which there is no discrimination on grounds of sex, religion, national or ethnic origin. In other words, it is not possible to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution if it is the case that we will remain within the framework of the international agreements concluded by Denmark, and it is a good principle to keep the agreements that have been concluded. Secondly, the Ministry has found that it would be responsible for the state if it were to end up rejecting applicants for citizenship because of the breakdown of applications by MEAPT countries, and the same will also apply in parallel here, if you state religion and you end up voting against the applicants for citizenship. So it makes very poor sense for the Radical Left that we will end up having to pay compensation to a whole series of applicants. It is the taxpayers who have to pay it, and I do not think that would be right. In addition, I would like to add that the point here of mentioning religion in the comments to the bill on the birth certificate is not, of course, a criterion adopted by the Folketing, and therefore it would not make any sense to include such information in the bill on the birth certificate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310195022	Thank you to Mrs Susan Kronborg. There are no brief comments. The next to be welcomed is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310195055	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start with a quote: 'It may end with certain groups of people being discriminated against on the basis of their religion, and in this way we are really pushing the wrong people away from us, and it will be a step backwards in the freedom struggle for democratic values, which I think is so crucial not only for Denmark but for the whole of Europe. ▪ That's what Mr. Mattias Tesfaye to Mrs Marie Krarup, when it was asked in 2019 whether religious affiliation should be indicated on applications for citizenship, and I could not possibly agree more. It does not often happen that we in this Chamber agree on this very subject, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye and I, but we are in this case. I would like to point out the absurdity of the reference in the comments to this motion for a resolution to the Constitution as an argument for its implementation. Yes, we can agree that the Constitution prescribes that citizenship of foreigners is granted by law and thus by us politicians, and that we politicians can also vote according to our own convictions. But the Constitution contains some even more relevant provisions on this issue. The Constitution guarantees us freedom of religion in Denmark. The Constitution ensures a separation between church and state. We have a widespread freedom in Denmark, and it is among other things. guaranteed by our freedom of assembly, our freedom of expression and our freedom of religion. This is the foundation of having a democratic society, namely that we do not have control of our citizens. You have to follow the laws of the country, but you have to believe exactly what you want. Today we are discussing this proposal, which is a direct attack on our democracy. It is an example of how the debate on foreigners has been so much off the rails that the Danishism that is being talked about is actually completely forgotten. In this Chamber, we must safeguard our democracy and our freedoms. If we do not do so, but work against everything that we have fought for since the introduction of the Constitution, we are approaching a state comparable to that of countries we would otherwise not like to compare ourselves with where governments dictate which citizens have what rights, where religious minorities are persecuted and where they cannot publicly express their opinions, because in that case it could affect their civil rights later on. If you live up to the very tight conditions for acquiring citizenship, you must have it. One has proved that one is integrated, one can speak, one can support oneself, one has not committed serious crime. So it doesn't matter what religion you have. You are more Danish than very many people who are born with Danish citizenship, at least if you buy the whole rhetoric that there are definite true criteria of Danishness, because these are criteria that you have to live up to in order to have citizenship. But there are many ways to make life difficult for people with a religion other than the Christian, and the Danish People's Party has been a banner leader for many years: Handshake ceremonies and tests of citizenship that do no good are already targeted people of certain cultures and religions to make it difficult for them to obtain Danish citizenship. What's next? That you have to stand and sing: Slabadubadelle, I love meatball and eat a wood snail to obtain Danish citizenship? Yeah, it's just before that it shouldn't surprise me. Then we are quite sure that we will ensure that as few people as possible acquire Danish citizenship. It is certainly not Danishism to exercise control of the minds of the citizens; it is not democratic that Parliament should be able to discriminate against citizens on the basis of their legitimate religious beliefs; and it is certainly not a proposal that Enhedslisten can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310195501	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310195504	With this proposal, we want to develop democracy precisely. We want politicians to be able to vote on things that they actually know about, rather than as they are doing now with blindfolds. We want to defend freedom of religion, because what happens if there are too many people with Islamic convictions is that freedom of religion will disappear. We should have done what the Eastern European countries are doing right now. They say no to Muslim immigration. They know what it's like to live in freedom. They tried that when they were sound states to the Soviet Union. They don't want any more freedom. They say no to Islam. We should have done the same. Unfortunately, we have a large share of Muslims in Denmark. We have to make sure they don't get citizenship so they don't get inheritance to our house. Of course, some of them will be able to live up to those things and accept our freedom, but we see time and time again that many of them cannot, because it is an integral part of Islam, do not accept individual freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310195614	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310195615	First of all, would I really like to know whether there are any limits to what Mrs Krarup thinks she has the right to know when she has to vote? Are there no limits to the freedom of the individual and to be able to have personal integrity? Because with that argument one might ask what religion people have, what their grandmother's name was, and if it was a grandmother's name was Sofie, then it can have a consequence. How far do we have to go in order for Mrs Marie Krarup to be satisfied with the knowledge needed to grant citizenship? That's what this proposal is all about. There we ask for something that has no relevance, namely what you believe in. That is something you must decide for yourself, and not something you have a duty to inform others, even if you have to apply for citizenship. The second is the quite unreasonable and generalising considerations about the characteristics of people with a Muslim faith. I think it is offensive that we should listen to such remarks, because they are generalisations which do not belong anywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310195727	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310195728	It would probably be an advantage if the rapporteur were to understand what Islam is all about and try to understand that it is at its core a killer of freedom; that is what is the problem and that our culture is the opposite. But what limits are there for what we want to know as politicians when we are going to vote on whether a person should have citizenship, I think should be up to the individual politicians. That is why we are in favour of individual treatment for each individual applicant, and then it must be up to the individual politician how much one wants to know, just as it must be up to the individual who wants to marry and thus include another person in his family, to judge how much knowledge he wants about that person.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310195810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310195810-2	But there is a difference between being a citizen of a society with full rights, such as: to be able to help determine the laws under which to live and then to enter into a marriage. That is quite right: Mrs Krarup has the right to table this motion for a resolution and make this demand, and I have the right to say that I think it is a foolish proposal and argue for it. That's kind of what I think I've been doing here. Then I just want to say that there are no special characteristics of people who have a particular religion. It is simply not right to continue to put forward that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310195854	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310195926	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. As I said, we are in the middle of negotiations on new rules for Danish citizenship, and what the Danish People's Party is proposing here has already been discussed in the negotiations. As I understand it, the proposal is inter alia. has been rejected by the government because it cannot be done within the current legal framework, but we recognise, of course, that it is a wish that the Danish People's Party has. After all, we all have different wishes. From us Conservatives I can say that we do not have a desire to divide applicants for Danish citizenship into groups by country or by religion. On the other hand, we want individual treatment of the applicants, where we can form an overall impression, and if it turns out that an applicant is a glowing Islamist and wants to replace Denmark with a caliphate such as Islamic State, then we Conservatives must say no to it. As I said, we want an individual conversation. That's what you have when you're interviewing a company, and that's what you have when you're going to a defence session. Then it may be that sir... Christian Juhl thinks it's crazy to go to an individual conversation, but I find it hard to see that at least there are very many companies that employ people without it. Therefore, I do not think it is quite crazy to ask for it when people are to be part of the Danish community. So we Conservatives do not want to say yes or no to citizenship in advance on the basis of country or religion alone. In fact, we are fundamentally opposed to this. However, we recognise, of course, that different parties have different ways of seeing things, and that is precisely why we propose that each of us should have the opportunity to vote according to our opinion in committee, if that is the case in committee, that we do an individual treatment for each applicant. That is what we hope will be one of the many results of the ongoing negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200119	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200123	After all, we think it is very sensible to have an individual treatment. We have always been in favour of this. But then, in the individual treatment, should you know what religious affiliations the individual has, or should you not, according to the Conservatives? That is my one question. Secondly, if you ask for the information, whether people belong to a religious community or have a religious affiliation, is it the case that as a politician you have to vote in a certain way in relation to it? Why is it necessary for the Conservatives to say: we will not say no to anyone in advance because they belong to a particular religion? That is not what is being asked for in this proposal. What is being asked is that we can get that information. It's nothing but that. For sometimes it may be that you want to pour the religious allegiance to the negative side, and sometimes it may be that you want to pour it to the positive side. Why is it that the rapporteur is immediately sure that the vote will then be taken only in advance? It's a strange generalization that I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200228	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200228-2	Listen to me. It is not because we Conservatives do not recognise that there are major problems with Islam in Denmark, to put it bluntly, and that is something we have addressed over and over again, and we have made suggestions on how to deal with it. But when it comes to precisely applying for Danish citizenship, I would like to give the rapporteur an example: we already see, in some cases, that people who have been denied their asylum convert to, for example, Christianity in the hope that they cannot then be sent back to their country. Let us say that, as an applicant, we are afraid to be rejected, for example. if you're a Muslim. But religion isn't something you write down on a piece of paper, and then you can just write what you want. That's why I don't think it's the right way to do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200317	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200318	But that is not what this is all about. After all, it is not a proposal that one should vote in a certain way depending on people's religion. This is a suggestion that you get it as an extra piece of information. Because it is true that there will be a lot of cheat converts. There is no doubt about that, so it is not always worth that information. But why should it be forbidden to receive that information? That is what I think is wrong. It must be a good thing for democracy that people vote on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200348	But if the logic is that it should not influence the way you vote and that you will not categorically say no to people who have a particular religion, why is it so important? People can be very believers, and people can be a little believers, people can believe in one, and people can believe in the other, and people can convert. I recognise that it is a priority for the Danish People's Party, but it is just not for us Conservatives. We would rather form an overall impression through a conversation and have an individual examination in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200416	Thank you. Then I'm gonna ask you if Mr. Christian Juhl would like a brief comment. He will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200423	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say to the rapporteur that, despite the fact that we have to go far, there is sometimes a little civil decency in relation to totalitarian society, and I would like to sign for that. As far as individual talks are concerned, I would say that the rapporteur must hold all the individual talks he wants. I am also holding many individual conversations with conservatives from the Bible belt, but I am also holding individual talks when I am an employer, and when someone in our recruitment committee asks whether he is a Social Democrat or a DF, I am breaking in and saying that we are not asking that here, because that is irrelevant to this matter, and that is, moreover, contrary to the freedom we have in Denmark to think, believe and speak freely. We assess people by their qualifications. It is fine with all the individual conversations you can hold, I have no problem with that, as long as we do not have to vote on 2,000 individual legislative proposals in the Parliamentary Assembly. We have a particularly skilful committee and a great many officials to help with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200531	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Christian Juhl has moved in that little hour since I was up here last time, for then Mr. Christian Juhl said that we wanted to have conversations with people, but now Mr. Christian Juhl, that is what you do when you have to hire people. Yes, it is common sense, and it also happens in the context of the session, and therefore it makes no sense to think that it is crazy to do so when people want the Danish passport. So I am glad that Enhedslisten finally supports our Conservative proposal for individual talks as part of the process of obtaining the Danish passport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200600	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200600-2	Now the rapporteur needs to be a little decent in the debate. I said that I do not want individual conversations about attitudes, because I am very much opposed to that, and I am also very much opposed to someone asking in an employment interview whether I am a Social Democrat or a member of the Danish People's Party, or what the hell I can be, and whether I go to church on Sundays, because that is irrelevant to the matter. I said that I am not now trying to say it twice, and I would also like to say it a third time if it is. Conversations are quite excellent at becoming wiser, but there is a limit to what one can afford to ask to be told.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200638	Yes, but I must also ask for some decency from Mr. Christian Juhl's side, because we have not even reached the point where we have begun to structure how these talks are to be held. We have said: let us look at Austria, let us look at Switzerland and see what actually makes sense here. Sir. Christian Juhl puts a lot of words in my mouth about how these conversations are to be conducted. We haven't even started discussing it yet. So should we not discuss how these talks are to be conducted, when hopefully we have just decided that they should be part of the process?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200712	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200715	Now this discussion is starting to run off a bit and deal with a completely different subject, namely the question of having conversations in relation to citizenship. I would just like to ask the rapporteur what I also asked the rapporteur of the Left about earlier: does the rapporteur not agree that the best thing is for there to be objective criteria as to what is needed in order to obtain Danish citizenship, in comparison with, for example, Denmark? I would like to make a few comments on education or other things, in other words where you can say that there are some objective criteria that people have to meet and that if they meet them, they have the opportunity to have Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200755	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200756	That is probably where we basically look at things differently. Because we do not believe that Danish citizenship is a right you have, that is, something you have the right to, if you meet some square criteria, in relation to how long you have lived in Denmark, in relation to how long you have worked here, in relation to whether you have committed crime at a certain level. We believe that the individual estimate should be taken into account, just as Grundtvig did in the first conversations, which apparently took place in 1850. That's what we want to get back to. So, Danish citizenship is not a right, but a gift that you get if you really earn it. And that's why we think that having a conversation, like Mr. Christian Juhl also wants as an employer, is a natural part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200833	Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200835	But then we are no longer talking about objective criteria, because then you do not know what it is you have to be able to talk about. Now it is often raised with the need to be Danish in the heart, and I do not know how to find out, just during a conversation, whether people are Danish in the heart and what else it has of relevance to it. That is why I asked for the rapporteur to agree that it should be based on objective criteria, that is to say measurable criteria, and therefore not on a conversation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200903	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200904	I find it difficult to imagine how the whole Danish society could work if it was the case that you could only hire people in companies without a conversation. I think it would be an interesting society. And if it is the case that you have to have a conversation as part of applying into a company, then I find it hard to see that it should be a problem even to include it when you want to have Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200931	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no more brief comments. And the next one we should welcome is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310200956	For too many years politicians have thrown around with Danish citizenship to a lot of people who should never have had it. Therefore, the granting of citizenship and the withdrawal of the same is also an important part of resolving foreign policy from the bottom up. The Danish citizenship is a gift, the finest that the kingdom of Denmark can give, and therefore the rules for awarding must of course also be much harder than they are today. No criminal aliens must have citizenship; on the other hand, they must be shown consistently and after the first sentence. Those who have been granted citizenship must be deprived of it if they are sentenced to an unconditional sentence of liberty. Those who come from Muslim countries where we have statistical evidence that they and their descendants are more criminals when they come here should of course not be granted Danish citizenship either. Every single applicant believes that we should examine in depth the Committee on the Rights of the Child, so thoroughly that the number of cases dealt with will naturally not be much higher than 200-400 per year. We, as elected representatives, must have good calm in our stomachs when we grant Danish citizenship to the very few who deserve it. That is common sense, and that is surely the real intention of our constitutional provision for the granting of citizenship. Firstly, he will be able to lie or convert temporarily. Secondly, we basically believe that what you think and believe is your own business... but Islam should have no influence in society. We also want to be able to deal with each individual applicant thoroughly instead of the mass allocation that the general indifference and laziness of the parliamentary parties has unfortunately caused for decades. But we do not need to hear about people's political beliefs, their religious beliefs or their sexuality; it must be a private matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201223	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201228	It seems to me very strange that New Citizens will not support us as politicians having the knowledge we need to vote on people. Mrs Mette Thiesen has just supported this under the previous proposal. So it seems very strange that we are not going to support it now. Of course, religion is a private matter. That's what it's supposed to be. That is exactly what this is about. We run the risk of having Islamic conditions where faith becomes crucial to one's status in society, as it is in many Muslim countries, if we get too much Islam in Denmark. We must avoid this, and that is why it is important for those who want less Islam in Denmark to have the opportunity to vote against those who bring Islam into the country, in other words to vote against Muslims. Then, of course, you have to take into account that it may be that people are lying. Yes, it can, which is why it may be a good idea to have some extra conversations. Or maybe it's a good idea not only to give weight to this information. Other information may also need to be given weight. However, to oppose this information, I think it is strange to think about how the previous motion for a resolution was put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201339	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201340	No, because, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is not necessary, because our policy can actually escape this by simply voting against the countries with which we have bad experience, that is to say those from Muslim countries where we have statistical evidence that both they and their descendants are more criminal when they come here. So, no, we don't think so. I would also like to say that it is possible to start discussing who thinks it is relevant to discuss political convictions in this connection and so on. We do not need this and we do not think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201411	Mrs. Marie Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201412	It's a comic book policy, really. Of course, there's a difference between people. It is so childish to say that you can be 100% sure of what people are like when they come from the different countries. You can't do that. It is therefore important to know whether you are a persecuted Christian when you come from a Muslim country or whether you are, for example, a persecuted Christian. is Islamist. And it may well be that there will then be some fake convertites. One must clearly take this kind of information with a very large spruce of salt and also look at other things. But to say that you shouldn't have the information, I think it's grotesque.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201449	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201450	No, I think it's quite common sense. We have said quite clearly that we do not want to give citizenship to those who come from these Muslim countries. Period. We don't suddenly start to get into the idea of enlightening religion. Incidentally, as I started by saying in my rapporteur's speech, there is also a concept called Taqiya. You can easily lie, you can convert temporarily. This will make no difference at all in that reason, so we stick to our policy, which is what we think is quite common sense, and that is to vote against those who come from Muslim countries where we have statistical evidence that they are more criminals when they come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201527	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201531	I'm just gonna grab the Iranian candidate of the New Citizen again. Why is it that you cannot have citizenship at all if you come from a Muslim country, but you can sit in here and legislate for New Citizens? Now New Citizens have a pretty good choice. This means that we can get someone from a Muslim country here who could, in principle, sit and lie and have a hidden agenda. That's how I'm supposed to understand it. This is precisely an example of nuances, including in the case of New Citizens, and that one can actually be a good citizen and come from a Muslim country. Otherwise, it's weird to set people up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201557	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201558	She's not set up for us either. I don't know what it is, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen believes. But I admit that with our policy she had not become a Danish citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201613	Here you go, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201615	But it is true that in the last elections, as I recall in the Greater District of Copenhagen, New Citizens had put up a candidate who had an Iranian background. And then I just want to say that it's a little strange that you can't even get citizenship when you're Iranian, but you can represent New Citizens in here. Does the rapporteur not see at all that there is some hypocrisy in this? The rapporteur emphasizes precisely that you can be a good citizen and come from Iran and that it is not just about where you come from, otherwise you would not want to put people in parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201643	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201644	I simply have to plead with the rapporteur, because this is just about looking at where we have bad experiences. Let us not give citizenship to people who come from countries where we have bad experiences. That's exactly what this whole thing is all about. We had many different positions at the last election. We had a man of Jewish background; we had a homosexual man; we had this candidate who had a Muslim background. We had a lot of different ones. Now I will not say this from the platform, but they referred to themselves in rather harsh terms, which was really funny, because we just like to take things lightly. So I stand by that completely. But he hasn't been set up this time. But we had that last time, of course, that's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201729	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201731	New citizens like to take things lightly. It just depends on what these things are. Now we came back to the debate we had before on the countries. There the rapporteur believes and now I quote the rapporteur 'that those from those countries are more criminal than most'. That is what the rapporteur said. Why don't we try rewinding afterwards? They're more criminal than most. Okay, that means they're all criminals on some level. I don't believe that, for one thing. And secondly, when you take a country as a starting point, there is also a persecuted Christian who is just being rejected. That's the way it is. If that's the price, it's a high price to pay. It can also be a persecuted person who does not believe in anything, or a persecuted person who believes in a completely seventh religion. This then means that Denmark will be unanswered by the fact that we do not take care of those who are persecuted and who we think should have a hand reaching out to be protected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201835	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201835-2	First of all, I have to say that the rapporteur simply cannot find a way of quoting. For what I said was that those who come from the Muslim countries, we have statistical evidence of being more criminal than Danes when they come here and it is both them and their descendants. That is what I said, and I am happy to repeat it. Believe me, I've said it a lot of times, and I usually know about what I'm saying. The second point I would really like to raise here is that the rapporteur also confuses some things. Because what the rapporteur is talking about there is asylum and we want a full ban on asylum. So it is not at all about the fact that there are some more people going into the country at all. This is about citizenship, and yes, we fully recognise that we have some countries with which we can see statistically that we have bad experiences. Of course they shouldn't have citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201925	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310201926	Now I cannot use experience for anything, because I also have some experience, but they are probably somewhat different from those of the rapporteur. Now I am trying to quote again: there is statistical certainty that they are more criminals than others. Now I said that sentence. I think I almost hit it. Statistical evidence that they and their descendants are more criminal than Danes when they arrive here). But if you were nuanced and proper, you should be told that there are more of them coming from the country that is criminal than the Danes. The others aren't. And it is those whom the rapporteur discriminates against, and I think that is quite, quite indecent and quite out of the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202007	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. You have to remember to wait until you have the floor. And now the rapporteur gets it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202008	Thank you. But I would like to say that there are a great many parts of Enhedslisten's policy which I also think are quite in the air, that is the way it is. We note that there has been a totally misguided immigration policy which has done great damage to our society. We also note that citizenship has been distributed to so many people who should never have had it that it has also done damage to our society. And we just want to save Denmark, period.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202042	With those words, there are no more brief comments, and we would like to thank Mrs Mette Thiesen, who has just to drink off. That's great. Thank you. Then we should welcome Mr. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202112	Thank you for the floor. Then we'll be there again... we'll be debating how to best appoint, cast out and stigmatize Muslims. This debate is starting to become tiresome and with no constructive purpose. I can feel that, like parts of the population, I am getting enough of political stigmatisation and squeezing of selected religions, of Islamophobia and, specifically, of racism. Even the corona must be blamed for Muslims and minorities. There are many in our fellow human and inclusive society who, like me, have had enough of Muslims and minorities being subjected to accusations and Islamophobia. It is not only in the public debate, but even by political colleagues here in the highest stronghold of democracy. Shouldn't we stay too good for that? Should we not be too good to separate groups in the population, especially when it is our job to bring the population together, not least when the country is in crisis? It is sad that so many Muslim citizens are subjected to hate crimes, while the government turns a blind eye to, and sadly is a proposal like this from the Danish People's Party, where the mere fact that a human being is a Muslim is enough for him to be suspicious. A religion and a Muslim in itself are not a threat, just as all other religions are not. I am not going to take a closer look at the proposal except to make a resounding no. However, such a proposal deserves clear criticism. The desire to register people's religion and evaluate them from its standpoint is creepy. All too often in world history we have seen religious minorities persecuted and killed because of their religion, just as we see in China, where Muslim Uighurs are persecuted and interned in labor camps to be turned into real Chinese and, in some cases, also killed. This is not the case, and it should never be the case here in Denmark. If anyone had told me 20 years ago that we in Denmark would be discussing proposals based on the anti-Muslim premise of the Danish People's Party, I would not have believed them. If we do not reverse this trend now, I dare not think about where we stand in 20 years' time. That is why we need to say a clear 'no': no to stigmatisation, no to scare and no to discrimination based on skin colour, religion and sexuality, no to dress legislation, no to legislation to take valuables from refugees, no to exit centres that resemble prisons, no to leave children in the lurch because the state does not like their parents, no to double punishment, no to Islamophobia and no to racism, and no to this shameful proposal to register people's religion for the quite hidden purpose of dissecting Muslims in the citizenship process. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202444	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment from Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202448	I don't know if it was the Folketing, as Mr. Sikandar Siddique spoke to, or some congregation out behind the screens or on Facebook. It didn't seem like it was directed directly to us sitting down here, but more to a camera. But that is why I am going to say something, because I think it is strange that we are swinging all the way up to these hysterical heights and talking about racism, Islamophobia, genocide and all sorts of crimes, it is a matter of voting on who should have citizenship, and then we must not get information about them. It's absurd. When I'm sitting with these big piles of applications on the Committee on Birth Rights, I can get everything to know... everyone. It's totally absurd. Some will use that information and some will not use that information, but why should it be secret? I think that is undemocratic and plainly foolish.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202556	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202557	Mrs Marie Krarup, what is undemocratic is registering people's religion. What is undemocratic is to go after a particular group on the basis of their religion. What is undemocratic is to make proposals that will send Denmark a step towards becoming a totalitarian society. This proposal reminds me of the Germany where the religion of the Jews was registered. This is unspeakable. This is undemocratic. I am not surprised that Mrs Marie Krarup cannot see it, because that is what the Danish People's Party has been doing for 20 years, namely to indulge our Muslim minorities, but this is a slippery path, Mrs Marie Krarup, and that is why it is a clear and resounding no from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202653	Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202655	Yes, sir. Sikandar Siddique can vote whatever he wants, but I'm just registering that Mr. Sikandar Siddique wants to restrict democracy and wants to reduce the information that people can get when they have to vote. We want to defend democracy, we want to defend freedom, because if there is something that destroys freedom and democracy, then it is precisely if Islam becomes a powerful force in Denmark. Then we will have a totalitarian regime; then there will be a difference between people; then what will become over- and under-citizens. We must avoid that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202733	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202734	I do not know where Mrs Marie Krarup has gone to school, but I would like to tell Mrs Marie Krarup, now that we are talking so much about Islam, that there is a difference between a believing Muslim and a threatening Muslim, one is spelled with o, and the other is spelled with u. There's a huge difference. And when you go in and want to register people's religion, we are simply out on a slippery slope where the Free Greens will under no circumstances be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202802	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202808	Thanks for the speech. After all, there was an international aspect to what the rapporteur said about the Uighurs in China. Since we are talking about the whole world and discrimination, would the rapporteur for the Free Greens agree that the most persecuted minority is actually Christians in the Middle East because of political Islam?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202829	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202829-2	I don't know. But I can tell the rapporteur one thing, and that is that whether it is Christians, Jews or Muslims who have been persecuted, the Free Greens unequivocally distance themselves from the persecution. So if it is true that it is Christians who are persecuted, then our position is quite clear: that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202854	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202855	I had no doubt about that either. I just wanted the rapporteur to sometimes also focus on that part of discrimination and persecution. Having said that, can the rapporteur define what Islamophobia is? Because I am in favour of discrimination on the grounds of religion, but I also find that the word is used a little shamelessly sometimes, i.e. if you criticise an imam or if you criticise religious peculiarities. I do not think this is Islamophobia; I think it is healthy that one can also criticise religion, including Islam, without suffering from a disease.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202922	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310202923	In an enlightened society there must be religious criticism. Islamophobia is when you, for example. on the basis of people's religion says that now we have to make special legislation because our ill-hidden purpose is that Muslims should not have Danish passports, as we among other things. has heard from New Citizens and, as we have also heard Mrs Krarup talking about several times today. It is Islamophobia when you stand up here on the Speaker's Chair and say that Islam should not fill any more in the community or what formulation is now being used.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310203004	I'm afraid time's up. Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique has no further brief comments. But we're just gonna have to get the booze off. Nice, thanks for that. Finally, Mrs Krarup from the Danish People's Party, the draftsman of the motion for a resolution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310203035	Since 1983 a total of approx. 250,000 citizenships in Denmark. This corresponds to an annual average of nearly 7,000 citizenships. We in the Danish People's Party believe that this is far too many, even if, fortunately and at the request of the Danish People's Party, the demands for citizenship have been tightened up. However, we also want applicants for citizenship to provide information on their religious affiliation, possibly on the laws on citizenship. It is an illusion to claim that culture and religion do not mean anything. Not only in Denmark, but in fact throughout the world, we see how the integration of Muslims has failed, while immigration from the Western cultural community typically takes place fairly smoothly. Of course, that reality should be reflected in the law of citizenship. That is why we should know what we are voting 'yes' and 'no' to. In this proposal we have proposed that the information on religious affiliation should be on the bill itself, but it is easy to give information in confidence to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. After all, we already handle a number of confidential information about applicants. However, as with B 147, which we have just debated, in other words, the proposal to divide the bill by country groups, it is therefore strange to have a political area in which we have to act blindly. We in the Danish People's Party are national conservative. We want to preserve Denmark as a special Christian, Protestant culture with a high degree of freedom. That is our policy. And we do not believe that it is possible to retain and protect this culture of freedom if we give citizenship to a large group of people with a culture that is contrary to ours, with a culture that is opposed to freedom. And Muslim culture is contrary to our freedom. That is why we want to vote against most people with Muslim cultural backgrounds. In our view, this is an objective consideration based on historical data. Globalists, as I said earlier, will not give weight to this fact, but they can simply ignore the information and not act on its basis. But it really seems strange to oppose information, especially if it is given in confidence. We have a democracy in which we vote to give citizenship to people who must have citizenship; why should we not, as politicians, know what we are voting on? This is not a violation of religious freedom. People have to believe what they want, and it's a private matter what you want to believe. But when you apply for an inheritance to Denmark's house, which is what you get when you become a citizen, it is not unreasonable to ask what religious union you are a member of. We defend freedom of religion; we defend freedom in Denmark by ensuring that there is as little Islam as possible in Denmark and in that we give the least possible citizenship to Muslims. Because we don't see freedom in Muslim countries. Islam is a religion that gives virtually no room for freedom. It is not a matter of registering Muslims. It is not a question of squeezing Muslims. That is not what we are talking about. It is a fact that culture and religion are much the same, that there is a difference between cultures and that Islamic culture is not as freedom-loving as the Danish one. We have seen it all over the world, we see it every day in France, in Germany, in lots of countries where you have integration problems. There is a need to act on the basis of that knowledge rather than with some blind belief in international conventions to lead the country into misfortune, as was caused by the insane alien legislation of 1983. It's gotta end. We must try to patch things up together, and one of the ways we can do this is to be much more restrictive and thorough when granting citizenship. As I said, the globalists and those who believe in the sacred conventions rather than in common sense can ignore information. We are just asking in the Danish People's Party that we get the information so that those who are in favour of common sense and want to save Denmark can vote for it. Yes, obviously we do not get much support for the resolution here, we have to admit. But I would like to thank you for the debate and I would like to say that it is a complete misunderstanding if people think that we want to register citizens on the basis of religion we do not. It is a confidential information to be provided; it is not an information to be stored or used for anything. Because when you become a citizen of Denmark, there must be no difference between people. It should not be like in Muslim countries where there are some who have special rights, and then there are some who have no rights, for example. Those who are non-Muslims and where men and women have different rights, because women are less worth according to Islam. That is exactly what we must avoid. We must have full freedom in Denmark, and we defend it by ensuring that there is sensible alien legislation, that it is difficult to enter Denmark and that it is very much It is a political decision where there must be a great many Danes who really want the individual to become a citizen. Yes, but I would just like to say once again that it is really strange to have a democratic parliament that does not want to provide information on what we are going to vote on when we vote to grant citizenship. It's really, really strange. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310203732	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are some brief comments. First, it's for mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310203738	Thank you for the debate. I therefore very much agree that there are problems with Islamism. You see it here in Denmark, and I have seen it myself in Turkey, where you have gone from something supersecular to an Islamic dictatorship. So there are big problems. The rapporteur also mentions France and elsewhere. But I just sometimes miss the nuances, even when the Danish People's Party itself sets up a candidate from Afghanistan for the parliamentary elections. I just sat there and Googled myself to that and found at youroverlook.dk, I think it's called, which is DF's answer to piopio.dk or something like that. So it's just that I'm thinking, "Why can you be appointed to the Folketing?" It is precisely because there are again some nuances, as in New Citizens. I think that is something I miss mentioning, in other words that not all people from Muslim countries are potentially dangerous to Denmark. And I think that when you can even be appointed to the Folketing, there are probably quite a lot of good things between.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310203824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310203825	Well, that's why we're saying that New Citizens' politics is a comic book policy because they just want to generalize in this completely grotesque way. We don't want that. As I said, we can just grant a derogation on the Committee on the Rights of the Child. We want this to be an information that you can act on if you want to do so and on which you can not act if you do not want to do so. You can go in and judge whether you think it's true or false, because there can also be lies in it. But there may also be people who are Muslims and who can easily live by the Danish standards, because they are, after all, different. So we have plenty of nuances, but we think it is grotesque that we cannot get that information.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310203904	Thank you. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310203905	I just understood what the rapporteur said earlier in some of the speeches made by the rapporteur that people with a Muslim background should not have Danish citizenship and that they should not be able to vote. But they can as well run for the Danish Parliament for the Danish People's Party. It puzzles me, and I also wonder if you are asked these questions, i.e. if you are a candidate for the Danish People's Party. For that information one must assume that one has to give up and then go through some test; one has to take the lead with a good example. I just miss those nuances sometimes, also with regard to people who come from Muslim countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310203933	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310203934	But I just don't think you've ever heard me say that it's the case that no Muslims can get citizenship. Well, we never say that. We're just saying we need to know and we need to be careful to give a large group of Muslims citizenship. But that does not mean that there are, of course, some who can and who already have citizenship and who are not a problem. So we have plenty of such nuances; we do not generalize completely. But I would say that having a very large group of a particular religion, especially of course the Islamic religion, in Denmark is a problem in itself. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204009	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204013	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it makes no impression at all that a largely unified Parliament has understood the Danish People's Party's proposal, but rejects it. It is a Parliament that can distinguish between what is objective and relevant information in order to obtain citizenship and what is quite irrelevant information. It is also a Parliament which can distinguish between Danish and Udansk, and a Parliament which can see through an attack to think, believe and speak freely, or at least the right to think, believe and speak freely, even if the rapporteur uses concepts of freedom in order to limit the right we have, the freedom we have. And it is a Parliament which rejects totalitarian tendencies, because I do not see that there is anything but totalitarian tendencies in the thinking based on the fact that we Christians are some sort of superhuman. Now, personally, I am not a Christian, so I am probably one of the other group, President Yes! ) but I don't understand...
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204122	Thank you! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204123	Well, it was probably very good that the questioner was stopped by the President here, because there it was really about smoking out in some poems about totalitarian tendencies and over- and under-humans what is that nonsense! Because that's not what this is about. So, it makes an impression on the Danish People's Party that we are standing alone here, yes, but we did so in 1995, when we said that we were going to have a tight immigration policy, then we were also called Nazis and racists, and I don't know what. And now there are a large number of parties which, of course, have taken over our policy because it was common sense. It had nothing to do with Nazism and racism and all that nonsense. It was common sense it is And this is one of the proposals that in 10 years' time will also be common sense for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204213	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204214	That's fantastic. I think what I said was very common sense. And I believe that one of the most unanswered things is attacking and would record what you think and what you believe and what you say and what sexuality you have, etc. etc. And to my death I will fight for those concepts not to be contested, even if it is in the sacred name of DF in the fight against the Muslims, for it is an ugly and unanswered trend. We are not registering anything that lies in that area, because it has been a fundamental principle of our democracy for all the years I have lived, and that remains the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204257	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204258	But now there is no mention of registration, so perhaps Mr. Christian Juhl simply did not understand what is at stake here. It is a question of people having to give up their religious affiliation when they seek citizenship, as well as having to give up a large number of other information, and that information should not be used for anything subsequent. So it is not a matter of registration. It is a question of providing a sound basis for a political decision and granting citizenship is a political decision according to our constitution. So, sir. Christian Juhl is in favour of a reduction in democracy, a reduction in information and information. I think that's grotesque.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204337	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, also from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204341	Thank you. And thank you for a speech that I think sometimes got completely Orwellian dimensions, in that individual freedom is a requirement for information. I would like to start by saying that you will not be inherited to Denmark's house if you become a citizen; you will have the right to vote so that you can vote for a parliamentary election in the society in which you live. That's as far as it goes, it's not a basic citizen's right. There is no reason to make it more tumorous than it is. And it is actually the case that there is now a much greater proportion of citizens who are permanently resident in Denmark but who do not have the democratic right to vote for a parliamentary election. That is why I should just like to know whether the rapporteur is not at all worried, we are talking about democratic rights, that there is a greater proportion of the citizens who live here in Denmark who cannot actually vote for the legislative assembly from which they themselves are governed by the laws, in other words whose laws they also have to respect. The second question relates to the rapporteur's saying that it should not be registered, but is there not a totalitarian tendency in asking for something as private as people's beliefs, that is, it is something they need to disclose in order to obtain that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204454	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204456	I think it is a good thing that the people who have come here because of too weak a policy on foreigners do not have the right to vote in Denmark. I think that is really good and I think that we should prevent them from getting it. I think we should prevent them from being inherited into Denmark's house, because that is what they get when they become citizens; for then they cannot be expelled from the country and their children are allowed to be here forever. They will have the same rights as we who are already citizens. So it is really good that we are very, very restrictive in this area, because otherwise we will be overrun. So that does not bother me; it worries me the other way round if they all get citizenship. It is not a totalitarian thinking to say that we should be careful to give citizenship to people who come from an Islamic culture or are Muslims. It is, after all, a conviction that is an expression of anti-freedom. It is a problem that one makes a distinction between Christians and Muslims and gives rights when one thinks that women are worth less. All this goes exactly against the freedom we have in Denmark, which I very much appreciate and which I will defend.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204604	Thank you. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204606	I still find it difficult to understand how people can talk about democratic rights and at the same time have the objective that such a large group of people living in Denmark do not have the right to vote, that is to say that they think it is good or that that group should be larger. But there's something I don't quite understand. Now the rapporteur says that it is that they come from an Islamic culture or have an Islamic background that is a problem, but I think the rapporteur said just now that there were plenty of people who were Muslims but who did well in Denmark. And that is why the information about their religion could, in effect, be subordinate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204641	Marie Krarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204642	Well, it's so with all of life's relationships that you can't just generalize on a single trait in a human being. But it is important for us as politicians to know something about it, to know as much as possible. And one of the things that we know at least is that the more Muslims there are in Denmark, the harder it is for people to integrate. For the stronger a counter-society there is; the larger a Muslim minority there is, the more there will be parallel societies. So, of course, it is a form of law, as far as there can be any laws in social matters. But this is something that experience shows is causing bigger and bigger problems. So, for that reason alone, you have to be careful. But therefore there are individuals who can act differently and who do not live their religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204730	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no more brief comments. So it's okay to have a drink. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. In the absence of any objections, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210310204752	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 11 March 2021, at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
