ParlaMint-DK_20210511145513	The sitting is resumed. The items listed as No. 3-5 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. As you know, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has adopted new guidelines on when to vote in the Chamber on the approval of a derogation from the Rules of Procedure. It means as a new thing that a vote is held on matters relating to exemption from the 30-day rule if a proposal is put to the third reading less than 14 days after submission. So today we have to vote on the approval of item 5, L 225 of the agenda. I would like to say here that we must remember to log back in so that we can vote, because we will shortly have to vote on item 5 on the agenda. So we shall vote in favour of paragraph 5 of the agenda. As you know, there must be a three-quarters majority in favour of such consent. The vote can now be taken on the consent. The vote will end. In favour 97 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, KD and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The consent is thus granted. The items listed as No. 3 and 4 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House, and if no one objects, I consider it to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511145731	Member of the Folketing Sjúrður Skaale applied for leave from 16 May 2021, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a). If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511145756	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy of Javnaðarflokkurin in the Faroe Islands, Barbara Gaardykke Apol, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 16 May 2021 on the occasion of Sjúrður Skaale's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that he does not wish to take up such leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511145821	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 96 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511145845	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511145857	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 92 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, ALT, KD and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 2 (LA), abstained 2 (NB). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511145925	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511145936	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 61 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, ALT, KD and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 34 (V, DF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150004	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150026	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, KD and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150051	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150113	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 to 5 of the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150125	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150129	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 94 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and KD) voted against 0, abstaining from voting 1 Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150152	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150208	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, KD, SIU and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150226	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150243	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 41 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 53 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150317	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150337	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. in favour of 25 (DF, SF, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 71 (S, V, RV, KF, NB, LA and KD), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150404	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150438	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 2 (ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 87 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB, LA and KD), abstentions 7 (EL). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150504	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150523	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150539	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150556	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511150607	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I would like to postpone the sitting again, so I would like it to be for the last time until 1 p.m. 15.15.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511151519	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511151536	Thank you. We were just in over this with what the framework is for this, because it's confusing from end to end that all the concepts are mixed together, so we start with a crash course in what is of different types of care. It is private, it is a category, there are private day care providers, it is another category, and then there is municipal day care, it is a third category, and then there are daily offers, that is, what we know as day nurseries and kindergartens, and I have to say that we do not support this resolution, and the reason is that there are in fact different sets of rules for these different categories and that it is important to understand that it is a way of explaining to parents what they really have registered their child in, and it is therefore quite essential that you call yourself what you are. As parents, of course, you need to be able to see through what kind of arrangement you fall into, and therefore the consideration for transparency has been given to what parents have asked for, I would like to say that it is one of the most important messages about the whole discussion that has been going on in the day-to-day area, as it is too difficult to see through what rules are linked to what is involved, what norms are for whom etc. etc. This means that we were very satisfied in the Social Democratic Party with the way we got the country agreement under the previous government, for that is where this change of rule comes from; it was when the broad political agreement was reached on strong day offers, and it was the Danish People's Party and Radical Left, the Social Democracy and then the then government that made that agreement with each other. What also happened with that agreement was that we strengthened the requirements for quality and supervision of private care systems and that we introduced new rules so that private care systems alone could use the term private care systems, so that there was no doubt as to whether there was a private care system, which is one category, or whether one was dealing with another category, which is private day carers, these are two different things. That means, of course, in the way you advertise yourself or otherwise speak of yourself, you must say what you are so that parents know what they are dealing with. And that was important for the parties to the agreement, including at that time the Left, because there are a number of areas where those things are very different from each other. The rules must therefore make it easier for parents to see whether it is a day-care offer in which the child is admitted, i.e. either a day-care service, whether private or municipal, or a crèche or a kindergarten, or whether you are included in a private care scheme. This means that the legislation states that different place names and adjectives can be included in the name of the care scheme, which must not be advertised as a private day care scheme, if not so, and so it can be said that both private day care and municipal day care have a protected title, so you cannot call yourself day care if you are not a day care provider, it can only be municipal and private day care providers, it is they who can call themselves day care providers. We thought this was a good idea at the time in 2018 when we adopted these rules as part of that agreement, and we in the Social Democratic Party also think so three years later. But I can understand that the Left is no longer behind that agreement, and I look forward to hearing a deepening of that, because it has certainly puzzled me. If we are to look at what the differences are, I would say that exactly what it is about here is that you, as parents, know whether you choose a day-care facility, that is to say, what is called a day-care centre, private or public, or crèche or kindergarten, or what is, on the other hand, a private care scheme. And when we strengthened the rules back in 2018, it also means that there is a difference here, i.e. in the day offers there is work on educational curricula; there is a demand for parental involvement; there is a care guarantee for the parents, and child care cannot be terminated at short notice. In other words, it is that package, so to speak, that you as parents buy in and know you are entitled to if you as parents choose a private day care, a municipal day care or crèche/children's garden. If you choose a private care scheme, it is not if you choose the other package, i.e. private care, it is the case that you have to apply for subsidies yourself, and it is really very nice to know as parents that it is not something that is done automatically, but that it is something that you have to stand for yourself, and it also means that the care provider, i.e.. I would also, as a parent, think it would be relatively nice to know, when you are going to work, that there is actually the care system you have purchased. It is therefore important to know as parents that there is a difference between private day care on the one hand and private care on the other, because these are simply two different sets of rules. So it is clear that it creates a little frustration and confusion over a period of time when we go from the fact that the word day care was not a protected title to the fact that we move on to that it becomes a protected title, because of course it means that there are some who have been used to having to use the name that was not adequate for what they were doing, and then they must no longer change it. But when we make these kinds of rules, that means by its very nature that the municipalities enforce them, and that is why you will see that the private care systems are being asked for in, for example. their advertising to change their names, so that there is consistency between what they are called and what they are, and I do not really see how I can actually come as a surprise to the Left, which I normally also think has confidence that when we make rules, they are of course enforced. However, the government is still absent from the political agreements made with the then bourgeois government. I think it is a very good basic principle that there is transparency and a clear framework for parents to find offers for their children. Therefore, together with the Radical Left, the SF, the Alternative and the Enhedslisten, we have also chosen to go further along the transparency track in our agreement on minimum standards, where we also suggest that it should be much easier for parents to understand what conditions it is about children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152213	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and that is from Mrs Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152216	Thank you for that and thank you for explaining the various day offers. I would just like to clarify why it is that the Minister thinks there is a need to separate the terms, whether you are a municipal day care provider or whether you are a private fit. Why is there a need to make that separation? I think you know as a parent whether you have chosen a private offer or whether you have chosen a public offer, as well as if you choose a private school or a public school. Why is there a need for separation in the terms? Isn't it really just to discriminate against private people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152255	However, I think that is an interesting starting point, given that it was the Left that put the proposal forward. So it is probably more obvious for the Left to answer than it is for the Social Democrats: was it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152312	It is quite true, as the Minister says, that this was a rule that was introduced in 2018 and that we were all behind. It has just had unintended consequences, which is why we would like it to be changed now. This proposal is quite clear, and that is why I have to ask why we want to maintain separation. Why does the Minister think there is a need for separation in the terms? Do you not know, as a parent, that there is a difference between choosing a private or a municipal day care provider?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152338	Well, that's not the difference. Well, we have private day carers on the one hand, and then we have private passes on the other. So the difference here doesn't make between whether you're public or private. The distinction goes between day care or not being a day care provider, and that means that for the same reason that I think it is a reasonable idea that it does not say that some goods are sugar-free, if there is actually sugar in them, I also think it is a very good idea that parents can immediately decode what they have offered. The rules are different, but it is not a difference between private and public, but a difference between day care and care, and both can be private.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152418	The next brief remark is to Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152421	There is a difference between them, it is absolutely right and it is also important that you can tell the difference. However, do not impress the Minister, since there are so many who think that this is problematic and point out that parents cannot find their way around it. Because I fully agree that it is important to point out in some way in a purely linguistic way that there is a difference between the various things; but you do so in a way that the parents get confused and maybe choose things from, and then the passports themselves get confused about what they really are. Isn't it better to find another name?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152505	I don't think you avoid confusion when you change the name of things. I think that is how it will be during the period in which it is brought in, and it can be said that exactly what Mrs Krarup is calling for, namely a clarification that there is indeed a difference, I think it was created by that legislation and that is what was not before. Then it is clear that when you separate things from language, there will be a period when you have to get used to it being that way. But it is at least deeply confusing that some can call themselves day carers when they are not. Well, I'd expect there to be an expectation as parents that if it says you're a private day care provider, you're actually a day care provider. The problem with the old rules was that there you could call yourself a private day care provider without it being and it doesn't work. So, the private day carers must call themselves private day carers, and the private pass must call themselves private pass.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152547	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152548	Now I didn't help dealing with the bill L 160, or whatever it was called 2 or 3 years ago, but I have to admit that I don't understand that you weren't better at finding a linguistic difference, because they can all be day carers. But then you can say: day care with private care or day care within the municipal offer. So you have an explanation or a parenthesis or an additional description, because day care is just an ordinary word for someone who cares for a child. Therefore, it seems strange that someone should not call themselves that when it has now become common use. I think we should try to have linguistic clarity, but only in a way that allows private people to pass by to call themselves daykeepers, but with the imitation of something or other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152644	I was not the rapporteur either, but I was sitting over there, where there is now a jacket, listening to the debate when it was taken in this Chamber. I would say that it is clear that there is an adaptation to some new names, but I do not think that clarity will be enhanced by changing it again, because it is the habit of new names that takes time. I mean, what was confusing and what was corrected with that agreement was that some could call themselves day carers who weren't. It is, of course, just as you cannot just call yourself a kindergarten if you are not because there are certain quality standards and other requirements and rules attached to a kindergarten. You cannot just call yourself a free school or a public school if you are not, simply because it creates confusion. That is to say, it is clear that when the name is then changed, it will in itself create confusion for a period of time. But it is important that there is the consumer information, so to speak, to tell the parents that this is, for example, a place where the child's care can be terminated overnight, or at least at very short notice, or whether it is something that falls under the care guarantee, so that you cannot just say a child's care immediately. So I simply think that consumer information is important. Of course, you do not avoid confusion when you change the name of something. But it was basically exactly the same discussions that were also about the parentheses when the discussion was taken in the Parliamentary Chamber a few years ago. So you took it with your eyes completely open. There is nothing that is inappropriate or that we have not been aware of in relation to the resolutions and the points made, either in the motion for a resolution or in the opening remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152814	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Then it will be ready for the rapporteur's line to begin, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Jens Joel. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511152843	Thank you to the President, and thank you to the Left for tabling the motion for a resolution, in which we really want to change an agreement we made not so long ago. By the way, that was when the Left was in government. From my point of view, the agreement is aimed at separating various offers in the field of children, according to what they contain, what requirements you can impose on them and what parents can expect from them. I really think it is very wise for parents to call things what they are and not to call two things that are materially and materially different things, the same thing, just because it would be easier. One might ask whether it is not confusing to call it something different, but if it is because it is too confusing, the counter-argument is that one should only have an offer. We actually think it's nice that you can choose between different offers. That is why I would also like to say that the arrangement we have in the area of children and the discussion we have on legislation are not, of course, about whether there is more or less free choice and whether there is more or less public or private choice. But one might have the Left suspected, if I have to be a little sloppy, that they might have thrown themselves into this because they thought they could make a strawman, it was that the Social Democrats are against something that is private. Perhaps that is why the resolution says that with the rules of 2018, only public day care providers could be called day care providers. That sentence is in the motion for a resolution, and that is actually wrong. You can be a private day care provider. Therefore, the difference is not whether you are a public or a private person, but whether you are a private day care provider or a private person, because these are two different things. I actually think that, with respect for the parents, it is wise to draw attention to this. I also think that, although it is always difficult to get used to new things, parents can see that there is a difference between the various offers they receive. They can choose a private person, whether they like one or the other, but there must be clarity about what they are getting. That is why we do not think there is any reason to change the agreement that we made a few years ago, because it really puts a sharp focus on what is the content of the offer to your children. Against this background, we intend to vote against the motion for a resolution and wonder why the Left now thinks the opposite of what was done when one was in government, but of course we are happy to discuss what is the cause of the problems. We just don't think it's a solution to call it all the same, because then there is no confusion about the names, but if there is still confusion about the different content, then it is, in fact, a major discussion to take in relation to the parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153150	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153153	I think it is a pity that the Social Democrats will not vote in favour of this resolution. So I had hoped that we could reach an agreement on this, that when we come to adopt legislation that has an unintended effect, we will correct it. But I understand that, unfortunately, the Social Democratic Party will not be involved. I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that if, in 2018, as parents, you chose a private day care provider, which is what is today called a private fit, you would not know that it was a private offer, that is, that it was something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153226	But I simply disagree with the fact that that is what was chosen. So, if you chose a private day care provider in 2018 or 2016, the truth was that what was on the sign "private day care provider" could be both a private fitter and, by the way, a day care provider. That is the reason for the confusion, that is to say that today you are completely free to choose whether you want your child in public day care, in private day care or in private care. There is, of course, free choice on all shelves, and that is what the Left finds very confusing. But we think it is wise to have both the option of choosing and to tell the parents what it is they can expect in terms of content and not just of the name.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153311	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153314	I think the rapporteur knows where I am going with that question. Well, my point is that I don't think that the parents were confused in 2016 or in 2017 or in 2018 when they chose a private day care provider, they were well aware that this was a private offer and what kind of framework it was. Why is this discrimination needed? That's what I'm asking. Why is it necessary to call it private? Why should you not be allowed to call yourself a private day care provider? Is it really for the sake of the parents? Does the rapporteur not believe that it was aware of what offer was made in 2018 as parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153349	But you can call yourself a private day care provider if you're a day care provider. I mean, I don't understand, because it sounds like the Left thinks the problem is that now you can't call yourself a private day care provider. You can do that, but of course it takes you to be a day care provider. And it is true that before 2018 there was probably no confusion about the name, for then both were called the same. On the other hand, it could be a little difficult to guess whether the day care provider that was then provided actually lived up to day care standards or to private fit standards. And you couldn't find out unless you read in the operating agreement that there was to be with the municipality. And there I think, with all due respect to the parents, who of course read things carefully, that it is somewhat easier to decode that there is a difference between the names than that one has to read the operating agreement with the municipality to find out what the difference is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153437	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153459	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party we have incredibly great sympathy for day care. We would like to see far more children taken care of in day care instead of in kindergartens or nurseries, because it is a smaller and clearer framework. So if you want your children to be taken care of, day care is clearly a super good offer, and that is why we also want parents to be easy and clear about what they are choosing. Therefore, we supported this name change in 2018, so that it became quite clear that there was a difference between those who were under the law on daily services and those who were under the private care scheme. But the problem is it's just that it's causing trouble and people can't figure it out. Therefore, I would say that I think it would be smarter to name it in a different way, to let them all call themselves day carers, but then to call them day carers under the day care scheme or day carers under private carers, because it seems to be a deterrent if you say: No, I am not a day carer, I am a child carer. Then it sounds like you're something less good. It is a bit like a school set up on a different, slightly different regulatory basis under private law, not to call itself a school, but to call itself an institution, or if a hospital set up on a little different rules and on a private initiative is not allowed to call itself a hospital, but to call itself the medical wards or something else. It seems like a negative word, and it seems like you're less competent. You've made a law in the very best sense, because it's a good idea to want to make a difference to these things, because there's a difference between them, but I just think you can do it smarter, and it's too bad you haven't done it. I think we should take a positive view of this, and that is why I think it is a little hasty to reject it from the government's point of view. The Danish People's Party certainly supported this rule change, so that it was clear that there was a difference, but we just have to face up to the fact that it seems that this difference has come to appear in a negative way, and we do not want to do so. And we do not want there to be confusion in the day care area where we really want people to want to go and want to use. So we will not promise to vote in favour of the proposal, because I think it might be possible to improve the proposal. Perhaps one could become a little more linguistically inventive and retain the day care name from before L 160, but then subpoena something or explain in more detail what it is. I would say that it has been in operation so little time, so I think that going back to the day care word will not cause as much confusion as it will do to continue with the word fits. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153819	Thank you to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is clear, and that is the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Strøjer-Schmidt Strjer-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153836	Thank you. The SF cannot support the proposal. Private carers and day carers must meet different requirements, where day carers have several obligations, including: in relation to working with the strengthened teaching curriculum, thereby inter alia: learning, play and children's communities are strengthened. Therefore, in the case of different offers, it makes sense to describe the offers differently, so that parents too are made aware of the difference before choosing an offer for their child.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153904	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur here. Thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Lotte Rod. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511153916	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Left wants to roll back a rule that we made together when we made the big change to the Daily Offers Act. And I have to admit that for me this part did not actually fill so much in the debate at the time. For what we did, after all, with the negotiations and the amendment of the daily offer law, was, first of all, to get the game written into the purpose of day offers. In my view, this is the most important law on education policy that we have been making for many years, because I think it means so much to the direction we are going in, but also, secondly, because it was in these debates that we were given a non-para graph, in which we said that we should end now by imposing on our day-to-day offers all kinds of rules and concepts that are outside the curriculum. That's what I was preoccupied with back then, and actually not so much this question. Nevertheless, I feel today that what we agreed on at the time actually makes very good sense. That is why I would like to put a little more words on where the Radical Left is in relation to this. On the one hand, I believe that it is important that there is a freedom to establish oneself in different forms, so that if, for example, one is able to establish oneself in different forms. is a former municipal day care mother, who has run mad in the municipal rules, then you have the opportunity to establish yourself as a private day care provider. Conversely, on the other hand, I also think it makes quite good sense that some people are day carers, and some people are private, because I have an ambition that we should make an even greater effort to ensure that our children have a high educational quality, and that is why I also dream that one day we will succeed in educating all our day carers. I think that everyone who is day carers in Denmark should be educational assistants, and therefore it makes sense to think about whether you are a day carer or a private carer, which in many cases is a friend, a neighbour or someone who has taken on the task for a period of time. And I actually think it's quite important that it's two different things, i.e. whether you're a private day care provider or you're a private fitter. Perhaps, therefore, one can only hope that what comes out of the debate we have here today is that some of those who might actually think they were day carers, but who are really passing through, will want to become private day carers instead. For the more people who want to become day care providers, the more there is also continuing training for them. So it will be my hope that it will inspire some more to become day carers. So the Radical Left cannot support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154205	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Bjerre, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154211	Thank you. Yes, again, I am sorry that the Radical Left will not support this proposal either, given the fact that there has been unintended legislation. But I would like to hear from the Radicals whether it is not possible to see that the word passes is discriminatory against all the private offers which are, after all, who would like to call themselves day carers, and who have done so in the past, so that there is something else in the word fitting than there is in the word day carers; that it is just not an appropriate word to use, that is to say the word fits, also because the parents are not used to the word either, but are looking for a day carer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154251	But it's not the same. And so, in my view, it would be good if there were more who would be private day carers. For there are some other rules attached to it; there is another security. There is also another possibility of further training. So I wish that some of the private carers who are today actually wanted to become private day carers. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154316	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154318	I guess we'll look at it a little differently. In my world, it would just be nice if there were some more who wanted to look after children at all, because we actually lack some of them in the future. But if you make it harder to be a private day care provider or a private carer like this, by acting as the name police in this way, we won't get anyone else to look after our children, and that's what we need. So why is it that we need to discriminate against those who are subject to some other conditions? Why can't they call themselves day carers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154346	I hope, then, that the Left can agree with me that this is not just about more people wanting to be with our children, but also about them being able and present. And it matters that there are good training opportunities. My dream is that all day care providers should be trained as assistants because it matters that the adults who care for our children also know something about how children develop and how to support children's development. So my hope is then that some of those who are today private carers will want to become private day carers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154424	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left. There are no more brief remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154436	Thank you. After all, the day-care law makes a very explicit distinction between day-care and private children's carers. It can be seen in the day-care law that day-care workers are covered by the whole purpose clause, they are covered by the educational curricula and a number of other things that the Minister has mentioned, while private carers are not offered day-to-day services in the sense of the day-to-day services law. This is also clear from the legal remarks made by the then government when the proposal was adopted. Private provision is not a day-to-day supply at all within the meaning of the day-to-day supply law. The scheme is old, it is 28 years old and is from 1993. There have been quality problems with it throughout the long period. A little attention has to be paid to this right in 2018, but if you have a warm heart for the municipal day care, what I have, there is no reason to be particularly enthusiastic about the private children's carers, because there has been a marked tendency for the municipal day care, which meets the requirements of the community for the educational quality, to be greatly undermined by private care provision. It has been a continuous movement. If we look at the last 10-year period, there has been a move towards 1,500 municipal day carers, who had to meet all the educational quality requirements, have been replaced by private carers. I really think that, and this is not so much what the proposers want with this, it is strange that we have built up a part of our care system so that we have a group of 10,000 children to be cared for in a special system that does not have to meet the same quality requirements as you have to in municipal day care and that you have to in the day care institutions, but in return get the same financial resources. We really wanted the scheme to be phased out not because we are not enthusiastic about municipal day care, but precisely because we think that municipal day care is a very good offer. And what we have here is actually subversive to municipal day care. Until that happens, I think it must be said that there is nothing strange about the fact that in the legislation we have arranged it so that when you are not a day care provider, you should not call yourself a day care provider. Several rapporteurs have said that there is some logic in this, and if you look at the difference between day care and private care, there is a very, very large difference, as described in the day-care law. And that is a view that the government of that time had when we dealt with it three years ago. So, on the whole, I am puzzled by the proposal in its substance. And I am really sorry if there are some people in this Chamber who think that this is a blow to municipal day care, because I can say with certainty that they are doing the opposite. If you strengthen the private care systems, thus spreading them, then you undermine municipal day care, which is an extremely important care provision for thousands of 0-2-year-old children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154824	Thank you, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur and it is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154830	Thank you so much. I was actually prompted to ask this question because the rapporteur refers to the fact that municipal day care is being undermined. So, in New Citizens, we are very much in favour of parents having a genuinely free choice and of politicians not being allowed to sit and decide on what day-to-day offers to take advantage of. However, the rapporteur could not put a few more words on whether the rapporteur really does not think that it is the system that is failing and that it is precisely because politicians have for too many years put too many guidelines on municipal offers, so that parents actually just choose something where there are not all kinds of teaching plans and everything else for their children, but really just an adult who takes care of their children and gives them warmth and care, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511154916	In fact, I think that much has been done even by the previous government, a great deal has actually been done to strengthen the quality of teaching. The new curriculum, which was drawn up in close cooperation with the professional organisations and municipalities, was in fact a boost to quality. I don't think we should mourn that. I think it is very important that, where we use public crowns, we ensure that there is a high quality in the offer. It is not there in the private care systems, and I do not think it is a very good idea, when we want to use public funds for the benefit of our children, that we then say that it should be just as financially advantageous to create an offer that does not meet the general quality requirements, as it is to create a regular day-to-day offer that meets the quality requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511155005	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511155007	What the rapporteur says is that politicians know better than parents what good quality is in day-to-day services; that politicians know better than parents what their children benefit from. That is what the rapporteur is saying. And then the rapporteur also says that they are public crowns. Well, it's the Danes' money, which they should be allowed to choose to spend where they want to have cared for their children. Why is it basically believed by Enhedslisten that it should not surprise me that politicians know better than parents what good quality in daily offers is?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511155044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511155045	There are many politicians, there are many parents. So I don't think you can put it that way. After all, we are doing so in this area, in education, in health and in many other areas, that we are laying down quality requirements for the services which are to be financed publicly, and I do not really think that that is so. One might say: Is the patient not smarter than the doctor, is the student not smarter than the teacher, are the parents not smarter than those who legislate in this area? Well, I'm sure there are some parents who are, but even though we disagree, I guess we're all doing our best to ensure that there are the best possible offers. And that is why it is really a pity that you can withdraw money from the public sector for something that does not meet the quality requirements that are otherwise the general norm in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511155132	Thank you, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj from Enhedslisten. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511155153	What I can say with complete certainty is that it is important, at least for the Conservative People's Party, that there are options for parents to choose exactly the solution that is best for their children. There is the possibility of a crèche, there is the possibility of a municipal day care service, there is the possibility of a private day care service and there is the possibility of a private passer. This is how we have gradually seen in this debate that the categories are distributed. I am not normally rapporteur in this area, so I am not the greatest expert in this, but have taken the matter in the Chamber today instead of our rapporteur, Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. It was a conservative minister who was at the top of the table when it was decided at the time to make this change. It wasn't because it was a great conservative wish to make this change, but it was an important priority for other parties, and we ended up implementing this change. When I stand here today, I have some serious doubts as to whether this was a real change and whether it has had the desired effect. On the one hand, I fully acknowledge the arguments put forward in this Chamber today that parents should be able to locate what is different according to the arrangements they choose for their children. For example, it is an important point that the Minister made about choosing a private fitter, because it does not initially trigger public funds. It is a central point, then, that if you choose that offer, there are some other rules in relation to terminating the care. That's a very central point, and we have to make sure that communication reaches the parents, that is, that there's a difference between these offers. Conversely, I can also fully follow the argument about this with the name private pass, i.e. that there is something in it that may not taste quite right in some way. That is also what can be seen in the material to which the Left refers in this motion for a resolution. There are some parents and some pass that indicate that they somehow feel that this title devalues their work and the value of their work. And I can also easily follow that one does not say: No, how exciting, now must little Sigurd start with private fit. On 1 August, he will go to his mother's mother's mother's mother's title, which he has used for 50 years, and which he will naturally have a desire to continue to use. So it's just to be completely honest and say that I've been listening to this debate and I can see both for and against. And I'm making a completely different speech than I had prepared in advance. But it is just to say that, on the one hand, I fully acknowledge that there has to be a linguistic difference that makes it easy to understand what kind of care I am entering into and what kind of offer it is for my children. And it is important for the Conservative People's Party that there are many different choices to choose from. We pay tribute to free choice, whether it be in the area of the elderly or for our children and everyone else in the middle. On the other hand, I am also listening fully to the reality that has been experienced by the devaluation of private life with the title that has been created here. So I hope we can have a report in committee where we can try to address this linguistic clarity and perhaps also the need for clear public communication in relation to this. To be honest, it does say a little that there were several rapporteurs in this Chamber who came together before the debate started, just to try to reconcile what the categories are like. I was not one of them myself, but I sat with long ears to get the conclusions. This may be a sign that there might well be a need for clearer communication in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511155540	Thank you to Mrs Abildgaard, the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. It's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511155556	In New Citizens we want politicians to decide much less and the Danes to decide much more for themselves, including more of their own money. This means, among other things, that the money must follow the individual child. It must therefore be up to the individual family to choose exactly what day care or school they want for their children, or otherwise for older people when they get there. For us, the most important thing is that parents have the freedom to choose and that the child thrives. A few years ago, a majority in this House voted that private day carers should no longer be called what they were, namely private day carers. Of course, they must be given the opportunity to do so. When I was a child I have reached an age now, when I can tell you that my sister was cared for by a day care mother, Grete, and I can clearly remember how happy she was for Grete and to get there. I must be honest and say that I simply do not remember whether she was private or municipal. It wasn't that important. I was taken care of by our neighbor when I was very young, because at that time the maternity rules were a little different, so my mother had to get back to work early. And there it was really safe, and I was taken care of by the neighbor who went home with his children. We also want to make it much easier for Danish families to adapt to a much greater degree as they wish. It is also, among other things, if you want to take care of your children at home. That's why we, among other things. In the past, it has been suggested that you should be able to obtain an employment allowance if you wanted to take care of your children at home. We pay tribute to both the private initiative, but we also pay tribute in particular to the freedom of families. That is why, of course, we also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511155754	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There is no wish for any further brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Christian Democrats, and that is Mr. Jens Rohde. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511155809	I was so looking forward to coming up here on the platform and supporting this proposal from Mrs. Marie Bjerre, and I know now that I am inviting myself into the revues of the world and Jonathan Spang's show and something like that, but I feel the same way about this proposal after we have talked that I mean the same thing as the last one I have just spoken to. Because I think there are good arguments on the one hand and on the other, and that is why I was just so pleased that Mrs Abildgaard gave a speech which she had not prepared but which was very gifted, because it went into those issues and which I can actually endorse from word to word. If there is a difference in substance, they must also be called something different. But that is why you can go in to see whether you can make a linguistic clarification which does not make a group of people feel discriminated against, but I am simply not qualified to enter a substantive debate on this subject at such short notice. That is why I would like once again to endorse the words of Mrs Mette Abildgaard and say: let us see whether we cannot land a report that can make us somehow overcome each other's differences. However, on the basis of the above, I must say that I have been convinced, most of all, by the Minister's arguments and, although I had one opinion when I came into the Chamber and had spoken to Mrs Bjerre first, I think right now, and one must be a dungeon if one is argumentable, that there is a logical consequence in that we call things something different when the content is different. So that's where it's so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511160031	There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Marie Bjerre from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511160038	After all, it's always nice when a debate can move on to one's opinions. Well, I can only be sorry that it's upsetting, Mr. Knox. Jens Roh's position in the direction it does. And I hope sir... Jens Rohde may find that we can land where you can call yourself a private day care provider if you call yourself a private fit today. However, the reason why we are making this proposal is that there have been some shortcomings in the legislation we have and which I am very sorry about. Now I completely forgot the question I wanted to ask you. Yeah, it's about the argument that might get Mr. Jens Roh to move again should be, for me, if the rapporteur could not see that it has made it harder to be a private person, by no longer being a day care provider, that is, that is the problem. Then we'll make it hard in society to have these private arrangements when you can't call yourself a private day care provider. - Sir... Jens Roh didn't see that's a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511160143	Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511160145	Well, you have to look at what the substance is. If the goods can be described as different, that is, if there are three different things in their substance, then they must also be called different. Otherwise, it does not make sense to have three different sets of rules. Then you should slap it all together, and I can't figure out if that would be appropriate. But if there is one requirement for a private day care provider and another requirement for what you call a child care provider, then they have to be called something different, otherwise you cannot make a choice on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511160240	Marie Bjerre, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511160242	I fully agree with the rapporteur that we should call things what they are. But if you care for and care for children during the daytime, you must be a day care provider. Whether you are a private or a municipal person or whatever public operating agreement you are involved in, you are a day care provider. This would mean that a private school should not be a school because they are subject to different conditions than a primary school, so that it should not be called school. We just have to call things what they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511160313	Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511160314	Yes, and most of all I believe that this is exactly what we are doing with the legislation today. For there is a difference between the requirements of one scheme and the other. And if there is, I guess it's best to call them something different. That is my immediate assessment, and at least that is what the Minister has convinced me so far, and then we shall have to see who I end up talking to last time when you can have this doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511160346	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then we'll have to clean up if you can with a broken hand like that. Fine, thank you. The next is the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511160417	Thank you for the floor. I must honestly admit that when I tabled this motion for a resolution, it might seem like a small motion for a resolution and perhaps not one of the most politically important proposals in this House, but it certainly has a very good debate today and also shown that it is important to take that debate. In fact, I would also venture to say that the proposal here points to something very fundamental, namely that we call things by their proper name. If you care for and care for a child during the day, I think you should call yourself a day care provider. And then it also goes deeper than that. We were also talking about that in the debate because in the Left we would like to have diversity in our welfare offer, just as we believe that the Danes should have the right to choose the solution that suits them best. That is why we would like to see a society in which both the private and the public solve the welfare challenges. For the truth is that if we are to ensure that in the future too there are enough welfare offers and enough warm hands to take care of our children and the elderly, then we need the help that we can get, not least the help that is from private people. For the same reason, private welfare services must be able to compete with public welfare services, and it simply does not work out for private people who help keep the wheels running in the welfare society. But that is exactly what we have done when it comes to private services. In fact, with the amendment of the Daily Offers Act in 2018, it was introduced that private care schemes may only call themselves a private care scheme, even though they previously called themselves day carers. This means that those who have previously called themselves private day carers must no longer call themselves day carers; they must now call themselves private carers. And in fact there have been examples that private day care providers have been ordered to remove the so-called quote posters by the name of the day care provider, which the private care schemes have been hanging as decoration. But it gets worse, because the simplification of the rules has also made parents more difficult to find private care, precisely because day care is so common a concept that it is what you are looking for when you as parents need help to care for your child and that is whether the day care provider is public or private. For the same reason, the change has also led to much criticism from the so-called private pass. So they see it as discriminatory and condescending that they should not call themselves day carers, but only pass. A so - called private carer put it very well for me: that, of course, you would rather have someone care for your garden than you want someone to look after your garden, just as you would rather have someone care for your child than take care of your child. There's something in it about caring for someone who's loving, something close, something that's close, something that's warm. And therefore, it is not entirely irrelevant whether people in the private sector who look after our children can be allowed to call themselves day carers, regardless of which scheme they are then covered by in relation to the municipality. That makes me ask, why on earth does the Danish Parliament have to act as the name police in this way? I don't believe that we're gonna win any kind of society by making it hard for private people. Let day carers call themselves day carers, whether private or municipal, regardless of the type of day carer they are. People who take care of our children in the daytime and care for them are day carers. As was also suggested in the debate, one should also call it a private school, a private kindergarten, a private hospital, and if one follows that logic, one should of course also be allowed to call oneself a private day care provider. Not only is it about identity; it is also about making it easier for all parties • both parents and employees • when private passes can call themselves day care providers. For this reason, the Left wishes to change the legislation, and I would have hoped to support it in this Chamber today, but it may be that we might be able to find a solution. At any rate, there was a proposal from Mrs Krarup to call it a day nurse, but perhaps something more was added, and I hope that the Folketing will accept this in the committee we can have. Because, as I heard the debate, it seems that there is an understanding that the word does not really work. So maybe we can agree on day care with something added. It's a little like not being allowed to call yourself a school if you were a private school. I would also like to say that I do not buy the argument that has been advanced in the debate that you as parents do not know what you are choosing. So, if you chose a private day care provider before 2018 and if you were to feel such a type of private day care provider as today is a private fitter, then I think you were well aware that it was a private one. So that argument simply does not stand. What this legislation has brought about is simply discrimination against those who are private, and that is why we want this legislation to be amended. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511160944	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are some brief comments. Mr President, first of all, I should like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511160948	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur, who has also tabled this motion for a resolution, whether the rapporteur can explain why the proposal says that with the amendment we made in 2018, it was only public day carers who could call themselves day carers. Why is it in the proposal when we have talked throughout today's debate that you can easily call yourself a private day care provider if you are a private day care provider?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161012	The reason it says there is that a lot of people who are private pass today before experienced that they could call themselves day carers. And just because they're private, they can no longer call themselves day carers. They experience discrimination in relation to the public. So that is why it says in the proposal that they see that, just because you are private, you should not call yourself day carers. It is only the municipal authorities who are allowed to do so, and also the few who have a different arrangement with the municipality. But it may be that we need to clarify it if we end up in a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161046	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161048	I think that you could do that with advantage, because the fact is that you can call yourself a private day care provider if you are a day care provider. So the difference is not whether you are private or public, although I know that the Left would prefer it to sound as if the Social Democratic Party does not like anything private, but the discussion here is not whether you are private or public. It's about whether you're a day care provider or not a day care provider. Could the Left not, if we are to have a discussion about whether we call things by their proper name, have the proper thing that we at least recognise that this is actually what is being discussed, namely that there is a difference between the requirements of day care providers, whether they are public or private and in the content of care systems?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161124	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161126	There's the problem, though, is that you can't call yourself day care. In the Left, we do not think there is any need to have this discrimination in the name. Nor have I received any answer from the Social Democrats as to why this discrimination is needed in relation to what is called it. Why can't you both call yourself a day care provider if you're a local authority and if you're a private person, no matter what type of private person you are?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161202	The next person I would like to give the floor to is Mr Spencer. Jens Roh of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161206	But Mrs Marie Bjerre, who was in the Left at least once, who had such a golden rule that if everything becomes equally valid, everything also does not matter, and so, I just think this sounds a little relativistic, because if the Left does not want to eliminate the differences between services in the private market, does it make no sense to remove the difference in the name? I'm gonna take care of the negations here. Is the question clear? as you would say in "Quit" or "Double."
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161253	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161254	Maybe. Well, no, we don't want to erase the differences, but what is at the heart of this proposal is that the legislation we made in 2018 discriminates against private people because they can't call themselves day carers anymore, and that's what's problematic. We would like to see the possibility of having the arrangements that you now have when you are private and the free framework that you have. Of course, you have to keep doing that, but you have to be allowed to call yourself a day care provider, because if you are not allowed to call yourself a day care provider, it is much harder for parents to find these private care providers because you are looking for day care providers. It is so common a concept, and then there is something special in the word day care provider.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161336	Jens Roh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161337	But just because you feel discriminated against or violated does not necessarily mean that you are. After all, there is nothing to prevent those concerned from becoming day care providers. They just have to, as I understand it, and I may have misunderstood it, meet certain requirements in order to be able to call themselves day carers. This is known in a wide range of professions. So what is it that is discriminatory if the same people on a private basis can call themselves day carers if only they follow certain learning plans and not for example. Just can terminate their customers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161418	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161419	In other words, we do not get around the fact that people are discriminated against when they are not allowed to call themselves day carers, because there is something else in the word day carers, and it is harder for parents to find them when they are not allowed to call themselves day carers. That is why there is discrimination in not calling them day carers, and that is what we would like to see changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161438	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Lotte Rod of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161444	The Left rapporteur said something in the sense that private people were helping to keep the wheels running. Well, I guess we're delivering our kids to some adults that we want to play with our kids, are present to our kids, want something with our kids, and not because we have to keep the wheels running. And so, the private pass is not covered by the specific purpose of our day offer, the beautiful purpose we have made together. They are not covered by our teaching plans, where we have jointly written in that children have the right to play and to co-determination. So quite frankly, the Left, why is it that you are more concerned with the name than with the fact that there are more who choose to be day carers and who thus live up to the beautiful children's vision that we otherwise agree on in there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161537	Mrs. Marie Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161538	We are very concerned that there are more who want to be day carers who want to make welfare offers that want to be with our children who want to care for our children during the daytime. There we have to make use of the private offers that exist, otherwise we risk not having enough. My point is that it would be a completely wrong world if there was no room for private people. We must therefore make use of the private offers that are so important. Moreover, I do not recognise that public opinion should be better than private opinion in terms of content or that it should be better because it makes political demands on the public and does not impose demands on the private sector. Why can private individuals not be at least as good, if not better, in quality? They're making their own plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161627	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161628	Now the rapporteur of the Left must stop making it sound like it is a question of whether you are public or private. What we are talking about here is that there are some who are private day carers and then there are some who are private passers by. And I do not understand why the Left has made it its most important struggle, that the passports must call themselves day carers, instead of working for the passports to become day carers, so that they live up to our children's vision, our teaching plans, to what we agree is good children's life. Why doesn't the Left work for it instead of the name?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161703	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161704	This is precisely about the difference between public and private. There's no such thing as a public pass. You can only call yourself a private fit. It is a discrimination against private offers when individuals are not allowed to call themselves private day carers just because they are covered by another scheme. I am well aware that you can call yourself a private day care provider if you are covered by one scheme, but if you are covered by another, you cannot. So it's discrimination against the private.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161728	Thank you, Mrs Bjerre. There are no more brief comments. We're gonna have to get the booze off. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161750	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 18 May 2021. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161850	Thank you. The energy rapporteurs of all parties in the Folketing have traditionally chosen to invite the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply to a question debate in connection with the annual energy policy statement. That is why I would just like to start by thanking the Minister very much for standing today and say on behalf of the parties that we are looking forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161931	Thank you for the explanatory statement. And then we need to get the alcohol off before we welcome the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply for an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511161937	Thank you. I am also looking forward to the debate. It is, of course, such an annual event, and I had actually set out to go back and see my predecessor how many times it had been said that it was such a historic year, but unfortunately I did not make it. I do believe, however, that I would guess that there are quite a lot of people who do, because Danish energy policy has fortunately been marked over the years by the fact that we have made major decisions, that a great deal has happened. Nevertheless, I would venture to claim that there is hardly any year in which these statements have been made where as much has happened as has happened in the past year. We can, of course, make a small bet on whether anyone can come up with a year in which we have made just as much progress. The world's most ambitious Climate Act we have adopted a 70-percent reduction by 2030. And not only that we have passed the law, we are already very well on the way to adopting the policy to ensure that we achieve our objectives. If you look at the manko that was when we decided the law until the date when we have to live up to it and what has happened to it since then, then we have reduced the manko by 41 per cent. The reduction that we have 10 years to achieve has reached 41 per cent. 1 to 11⁄2 years. In other words, the reductions we have already decided will lead us to 55 percentage points of the 70. Is 55 a lot? Yes, if you compare, for example. with the European Union, and I think most people agree that the new objective that has just been adopted in the European Union is quite ambitious, at least much more ambitious than it had dared to hope for, and, indeed, it is quite an increase compared to what it has been like in the past. So we have already decided on measures that will lead us to achieve what the whole of Europe will have to achieve by 2030 on average. Or compare with the United States: President Biden, whom I think most people have been very positively surprised at how progressive and ambitious he has been in the climate area, proposed in connection with the climate summit he held a few weeks ago that the United States should reduce by between 50 and 54 percent. in 2030; but it is worth noting compared to 2005. If you compare it to 1990, the American reduction commitment or target is 43%. compared to the Danish figure of 70%, of which we have already reached 55%. Add to that that last week we also decided to make a very ambitious milestone in 2025; a milestone that will ensure that we push ourselves to make decisions, including in the short term. After all, it is always a balancing factor between launching initiatives now, knowing that they will only lead to reductions in the long term, while at the same time we must constantly take action to do things that can be done in the short term. So only if you look at that equation, and if you look at how much of our goal achievement here is due to our energy policy, it is of course a special year and a really, really good year for Denmark. In addition, of course, some very important decisions have been taken in a number of other areas. It is, of course, historic when we say that we want an end date for the extraction of oil and gas in the North Sea. We have decided that we will cancel the eighth round of invitations to tender and all potential subsequent tendering rounds, while at the same time, in 2050, we will stop to pull oil and gas out of the North Sea. Oil and gas have helped finance the Danish welfare state for decades. We are still the largest oil producer in Europe. It was an agreement to be financed by 13 billion. kr., that is, not a very small decision, but a necessary decision, because we want to be a pioneer, and because we want to show the rest of the world that we can actually make a transformation of a society that does not mean that we get more inequality, which does not mean that people are without work but, on the contrary, makes us a better, more capable and more competitive society but not just in the easiest way. We are actually doing it in those areas where it is difficult. Of course it would have been easier to say: as long as we can just pull money out of the North Sea so as to quit, let us do it and then invest that money in some green technology, and then everything is fine. We could have chosen that path, but we do not. We choose to set this end date because we believe that it is possible to make that transition. We also believe, moreover, that we are going to create more jobs in the green sector than we are losing in the black sector, and this is, of course, linked to the third major event that I will mention, which has taken place in the past year in the energy sector, and that is the decision to change the Danmark map. We are going to make an artificial island out in the North Sea, an energy island that will act as a hub for energy for large parts of Europe • initially 3 GW, in the long term 10 GW. As a rule of thumb, 1 GW can supply about a million households with green electricity. Plus Bornholm in the Baltic Sea, which will also act as energy island with initially 2 GW. Overall, this is huge amounts of green energy, which can partly help other countries reduce their CO2 So that we take the green current and convert it via electrolysis into hydrogen, and convert hydrogen into liquid fuels. It solves two problems for us: it does, of course, allow us to store the energy; but it also means that we can get it into parts of our energy systems where it is more difficult today. Overall, we are a pioneering country. Overall, we are pushing ourselves to develop new technologies, which will be very good for Denmark and for our competitiveness and other things, but which of course can also be used elsewhere in the world. That is how it is when you are a small country: if you want to make a difference, it requires you to take the lead. In our international, global efforts, we also have very concrete cooperation agreements with 16 countries, which overall account for more than 60%. of the world's greenhouse gas emissions. We help them with Danish know-how, Danish technology to be better at reducing their prints. We have increased our climate assistance. We are pushing in the European Union on a large number of important agendas in this area. And we are very aware that if we are not also active internationally, if we are not also both involved in the negotiations and lead the Danish examples where relevant, yes, our efforts mean less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511162743	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. And since it is a debate on statements, one brief remark is now available from each of the rapporteurs. There are a few inscribed, and first it's Mrs. Signe Munk from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511162753	Thank you for the opportunity to have this energy policy statement. There is something amazingly insightful and, in fact, such an enthusiasm by reading the energy policy statement. I don't think you can feel anything else when you're an energy rapporteur. And although we may disagree on how much more needs to be done and what the next step is, I think there is much to be proud of in the energy policy statement. The minister said, and I quote, as I heard the minister say, that if you want to make a difference as a small country, you have to take the lead. It reminds me that I and my party and other parties have asked the government a little about the investments through the Export Credit Fund, and there is the fact that Denmark can make a choice to actually take the lead and say: No, no export credit support is given to several heavy fuel fuel plants that are actually not given to any fossil energy at all. So will the Minister take the lead and stop fossil support from the Export Credit Fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511162905	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511162906	It is quite true that this is a debate that has been raised and I think we have also had a single consultation on the matter. We have already decided to stop support for coal, thermal storage, thermal extraction and, of course, coal power. And whether we should go further and also do so in relation to other fossil fuels, an analysis has now been initiated by the Minister for Climate Affairs, and according to the Minister for Climate Affairs, I'm sorry, it's me, I mean the Minister for Business; I've been a while lately, so that's why I'm mixing the hats together a little... that analysis should be available within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511162949	Thank you to the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. If he doesn't know who he is, I'll tell him. As a small piece of service information, the short comment has a duration of one minute, and the answer is also one minute. And the minister finally comes on again. I should now like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163007	Thank you. After all, there was a lot of climate policy in the Minister's speech, and I think that is quite fine. In relation to whether we are a pioneering country, I would say that yes, I think we are in some ways. But there are also some corners where we have not become, because other countries cannot just copy us. If we look at biomass consumption and biogas consumption, we are a place where we can only have the biogas at such a high level because we import soya from an area corresponding to Sjælland, and thus can have extra livestock in Denmark and therefore more manure that can be put into a biogas plant. And in the field of biomass, not all countries can do just like Denmark and import so much. So I think there is a reason why we have special attention on these two points. I would like to hear the Minister's comment on that. Something else is that I have seen more recent figures that there is a prospect that by 2030 54 per cent will be achieved. of the support for renewable energy goes to biogas. I would like to know whether the Minister does not see that we have ended up in a wrong place with the violent support for equal biogas, because there may be other technologies that, as such, need support during a start-up period.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163112	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163113	That was a lot of questions in it. To the first, whether others should copy us, I would say that it is no secret that we all agree, I think, that biomass should be largely phased out. But in Denmark, we have just chosen to take the lead by making sustainability criteria that are tighter than those that apply in the rest of Europe, precisely to ensure that it is the good biomass used in goose eyes. Using things that would otherwise be waste to actually create energy is not bad. Remember also: In relation to both the UN climate panel, the Climate Council and, I think, most other experts' projections, it is clear that if you are to stay below 1.5 degrees in temperature increases, we must have negative emissions. And one of the few ways to get it is to combine biomass with CCS. In relation to the level of support, and the percentage it represents by 2030, it is quite difficult to respond, even at a time when we are actually hoping that many of the things that we support today will be competitive and live without support by 2030. Biogas will hopefully and probably still be a fairly large part of Denmark's energy system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163222	Thank you. The next thing I would like to make is a brief comment, Mr President. Tommy Ahlers, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163228	Thank you to the Minister and thank you for your statement. It is true, as others have also said, and as Mrs Signe Munk also said, that this statement feels joyful. What is also pleasing in it are these large-scale agreements. That joy disappeared a little Thursday afternoon and Friday morning last week, when suddenly a very narrow agreement was reached only with red parties on the 2025 target and where the other parties, blue parties, which are also behind the Climate Act, were not invited to the continued negotiations on it. Should this be taken as an expression of the fact that this was the last statement that the Minister is going to make, where we are looking like we are looking at the broad cooperation on climate and energy policy? Now, are they supposed to be narrow red deals that carry this area on like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163316	I certainly hope not. It is clearly best for Denmark with broad agreements, but, on the other hand, it has to be said that we cannot compromise on the level of ambition. Once we've made a broad deal on the 70%. In 2030, it was not the case that we said to the Left: do you want to join in? And if you only want 65%. or 60%, we'll find each other. We said 70 percent. It's like the entrance ticket to join us. Well, luckily you guys went along, and that's good. Now I'm so excited if you'll agree to the 50-54 percent. in 2025, for the fact is that no matter how many meetings I have held with you, you have not come any closer to reporting out what you mean. You said what we originally brought wasn't loud enough. But what does that mean? Now there is a number that lies all the calculations you have asked a lot of questions, and we have answered them down to very zealous details. So now the question is for you: Do you want in or do you not want in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163405	Thank you. The next one to make a brief comment is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163410	Thank you. Thank you for your statement. It has indeed been an historic year. I will try to pack up two questions in one. I assume that, after this historic year, we are going to start another historic year and then another historic year, because the high pace we have now set in motion is still not enough and we need to accelerate. I assume that we will be called to debate an electrification strategy and that this will be a matter for negotiation in the coming period. That is one question. The second is that when you look at this good statement, you also think about the bumps that have been on the road and all the things that have not happened. And I am thinking in particular of the offshore wind farm, which has been planned for many years at Omø, and which could actually contribute to a significant reduction by 2025. Will the Minister make an energetic commitment to dialogue with the Commission in order to try to obtain an exception so that it can nevertheless be established? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163456	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163457	First of all, yes, we must have an electrification strategy this year. It also follows from the agreement we made last year, with various scenarios and so on, but in addition, we are already engaged in other, very important negotiations on the future organisation of our electricity sector, with excellent contributions from the author's party. In relation to the specific case, we are also in dialogue with each other about this. After all, there are clear EU rules here that we must follow. I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163530	Thank you. The next is Conservatives' rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163536	Thank you, Minister. That is a very fine statement. There are a lot of good things and a lot of plans, and we have come very far, said the Minister. But one area that the Minister also mentioned was power-to-x. Does the Minister think we have come a long way when we are still discussing a strategy and we are falling further and further behind on Europe's list of countries that have both strategies and projects? Even Poland has a power-to-x strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163605	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163607	This is clearly one of the places where we need to deliver more. I would also like to say, on the other hand, that it is not enough to have a strategy. It is also a little important what that strategy says. I think that most people who have followed the debate, also about the connection between ccs and ccu and ptx it will be a lot of abbreviations here • probably will agree that it is very clever that we find out what we actually have access to of what some call green carbon. I don't know if you should use that expression, but it's carbon that can be taken by catch from, for example. biomass and to be used in ptx. So there are a number of things that need to be put in place in the ccs strategy before we can create a ptx strategy. But I can assure you that we are working on the high nails, so that it too is ready as quickly as we can, and we will have to negotiate it this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163659	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163703	Thank you. At any rate, I can say that when we are not part of the interim agreement or partial agreement, it is because we have never been invited. So it's not like we've been sitting on our hind legs. But I would like to follow up on what the Minister says to Mr. Tommy Ahlers. Because, yes, it's about compromises. It is only about compromises, otherwise we will not all get along, and that is what is important here. I am very pleased about this, and I have told the Minister at several European Committee meetings that we have a minister who I think is constantly seeking a balance: ambition balance, ambition balance. I would like to commend the Minister for that. But that is only achieved if the broad compromise is constantly sought, because otherwise there are some who run around or at least get rid of the minister. I would therefore urge the Minister to come back to his ambition-balance strategy, which I think has been both fair and reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163808	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163809	Nor is it because I do not share the basic view that energy policy in Denmark is best when it is made broadly. I also have to say that on the very specific issue of a 2025 target, we have met many times and had the debate in this Chamber, of course, not Mr. Jens Rohde's new party; I fully understand that it has been a different process and you are new to that party. However, the Left, Conservatives and other bourgeois parties, who have pushed the government and said that we were not working fast enough, have not themselves wanted to report what they think. It's not that much about the public... I don't care about being honest... but even when we sit and negotiate, we can get any indication of what they think, and then you can't negotiate. Now it is an objective, and at least as important or even more important is how we achieve that objective, and there we are, of course, going for broad agreements when it is possible at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163913	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511163919	I guess I'm the one who might feel the most fucked up today. It is probably no secret to say that I thought that the government and the Danish People's Party were closer to each other in this area than the government was to the parties that make the minister minister, and also the Left. Compared to what the government had proposed, with a partial target of between 46 and 50 per cent. And as suddenly as a thief at night, you get a ritzaube message saying that now some crazy deal has been made with the left, which is not even the government's own policy. But, of course, that's the way it is. The Minister must treat us as he pleases. It is not us who make the minister minister. But can the Minister not understand us who have actually said from the start that it is a good idea for the country after corona with all the problems that the economy has, that you do not make a very narrow agreement, where you then potentially jump 8%. in relation to the government's own policy? We're usually able to figure it out. Why didn't the minister call?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164031	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164032	I didn't do that because, since we came up with the first play, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt quite rightly praised, of course, having found out that the reason why Mr. Morten Messerschmidt praised it, was that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has left the 70%. The Danish People's Party is now only in favour of 65%. I just have to say that we have different levels of ambition. We will continue to have objectives and policies that need to be pushed in the right direction. This is not an easy path we have chosen, I admit it. This is certainly not an easy way, and we do not know exactly yet how to reach the 50-54 per cent. This is one of the things we will have to negotiate in the coming year, of course, and the years after. I think we just have to realise that, despite the fact that we would like to have as broad a settlement as possible and as much support as possible, there is at least a conflict between the Danish People's Party and the government there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164132	Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply in this round. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. It is the case that the Minister comes to the end, even when it is a debate on the statement. Now we move on to the debate and we move on to the general rules for short remarks, so you have two brief comments, as usual, when there is a general debate. First of all, we need to get hold of the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164209	Thank you. A great deal has happened since we had a debate on Denmark's energy policy last year, not only because of our return and our continuous dance with corona, but because we have made significant agreements across the Danish Parliament on our way to the 70% reduction target. in 2030. With the Climate Agreement for Energy and Industry, we have begun a new era for the development of offshore winds with two energy islands • a new artificial island in the North Sea and in the Baltic Sea on Bornholm. We have set aside billions for the replacement of oil and gas burners and adopted sustainability requirements for wood biomass. We have set aside billions of kroner to support the green transition and energy efficiency improvements in industry. We have reached an agreement to cancel the eighth invitation to tender and all tendering rounds thereafter, and that after 2050 Denmark will no longer have to object to oil and gas in the North Sea. It is historic, and Denmark is the largest oil producing country to date. Together in the Danish Parliament, we have already delivered many good agreements that contribute to our reduction targets by 2030 and our goal that Denmark should be climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. The new climate projection confirms that we have come well along the way. We have reduced the shortfall to 70 per cent by 8.2 million. t CO2 renewable energy in our electricity consumption, and we want about 70%. biogas in our gas grid. This benefits our manufacturing companies, which can use green gas earlier than expected. By 2030 we will have reduced our CO2 compared to 1990, if we did not do more now. But that is what we are going to do, and I think it is not a secret, as was also said from up here just now, that we still have a lot of work to do. We're gonna have to, among other things. provide a strategy for CO2 capture and storage, because CO2 capture and storage is one of the technologies we do not get around that we need. That is why we have among other things. ECU 16 billion has been allocated for this purpose. kr. to support so that we can develop and scale the technology. The first carbon capture and storage pool in the North Sea is already open to applicants in June 2021. We must, of course, continue the ambitious expansion of green power, not only to supply power to Denmark, but also to deliver green power to the rest of Europe. In addition, we will hopefully have to reach a broad agreement on the green conversion of agriculture. In our proposal, we are pointing out the way to reduce agricultural emissions by 7.1 million. t by the use of known instruments such as the removal of low bottom soil and investments in new green technology. Last week we reached an agreement on a sub-target in 2025 at 50-54 per cent. This requires us to launch even more initiatives in the short term and, in the Minister's own words, to push ourselves. With those words, I would like to read out a text for adoption on behalf of the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that broad and framework agreements were concluded in 2020 for the green transition of the energy sector. The adoption of the Climate Agreement for Energy and Industry, the continued implementation of the Energy Agreement from 2018 and further action in the field of energy are good steps on the way to achieving the 70-percent target by 2030 and the long-term objective of climate neutrality nationally and internationally. However, Parliament points out that there are still challenges in the energy sector that need to be addressed. With new sustainability requirements for wood biomass, the challenge of burning biomass has begun, but its work and increased green conversion of the industry require continued efforts. Through energy policy, the Danish Parliament urges the government to drive the green transition in Denmark with a broad spectrum of instruments such as taxes, subsidies and regulations with further speed and to work even more for the global green conversion of energy production, including to work for a continued phasing-out of support for fossil energy sources. • V 120).
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164630	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for the adoption text that I am just getting here and passing on to the secretary. Here you go. There are a few brief comments, and the first one I would like to give the floor to is Mrs Signe Munk from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164642	Thank you for the speech by the rapporteur and the text of adoption. There is no doubt, as the rapporteur is certainly aware, that there are now a lot of city council politicians who see that there are many who would like to set up solar installations, farmers who enter into agreements with some of the major operators we have in the area of solar cells, but there are also some municipal politicians who are left a little confused and ask: is it now wise that it should come on that and that field? Wasn't it better that it was where there were some low-level soils, and on some large roofs etc.? That is why I see a clear signal from at least the municipal politicians with whom I am speaking that we, as energy rapporteurs in here, are taking the task a little on us and setting a clear framework for how solar power is to be built out in the country. That is why I wanted to hear from the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party how he views the SF's proposal that we make an announcement, such as: frame how to protect nature when setting up solar cells.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164747	I think, at least, that I should have an opportunity to learn even more about the probably excellent proposal that Mrs Signe Munk and the SF have put forward. However, as has already been said by the Minister, we do not want to deprive the municipalities of the possibility of planning their solar installations. But it is clear that when there is a stir out there, and I have been approached by several municipalities and by local politicians, we must look at what we can do. That is why we are prepared to sit down and have a talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164826	Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164827	In the SF we imagine that we from the Folketing identify some areas that are obvious in terms of making a local decision as to whether to set up solar cells. For SF to see it is a completely locally important task that you plan and have a dialogue with citizens about both wind turbines, biogas plants and solar cells. I just hear a clear signal from the municipal politicians about whether we in here from Christiansborg cannot give them a better framework, not retail management, but just a better framework so that they can make the final decisions out there in a good way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164858	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164859	I can't wait to talk about that. Because I think that SF is quite right in saying that it is not a question of either or. I think it is a question of boats and when we talk about the green transition, and therefore I look forward to having a talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164913	Thank you. Then Jens Rohde would like to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164918	Thank you. It is because I do not think I can see that the rapporteur has broken his fingers, and I just wanted to remind you that perhaps you could pick up the phone and call and ask some of the bourgeois parties if they wanted to join us. It may well be that we would have liked to have been in a proposal for adoption, and we have not heard anything. Now I have to be careful what I say because I'm holding this myself. With regard to the substance: what is the Social Democracy's position on the concept of technology-neutral climate policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164954	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511164955	I can start by saying that I know how the questioner feels. I've broken my arm four times myself, so I'm aware of how much trouble it can be to run around with an arm like that. And congratulations on joining the new party and your new plan. So, I am thinking that in this circle we have had several meetings where we have discussed the 2025 target, and that was also before the questioner himself knew the colour, and that is why, I think, there is nothing else behind it but that the questioner also has the opportunity to agree to the agreement that I also hope the questioner shares, namely a very good and ambitious agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165036	Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165037	Yes, the Climate Act is certainly acceptable to us, but now we have to see what we are voting on that text of adoption, because I heard it just like that. I would just like to point out that we would like to make ourselves available in relation to these discussions. When I ask about a technology-neutral climate policy, it is because the previous government had actually written in that it would like to look at such things as thorium-based energy sources, salt plants and such. What about the present government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165123	Bjørn Brandenborgs, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165123-2	I would say that we have said from the outset that we need technologies that we do not yet know, and that is why, as I said in my speech, we have set aside large amounts of billions for technologies that have not yet been fully developed. I have to admit that I am not an expert on any of the technologies to which the questioner refers, and therefore I cannot get any sharper on it. But let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165159	Thank you for that, and here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165200	I am glad that the rapporteur did not get into something terrible there. But now the rapporteur mentioned that the Social Democratic Party, like myself, is pushing itself, I think that was the wording, and that is not quite what I have seen. In other words, I am experiencing many processes in which the Social Democrats and the government are making a move, and we will have to fight to get our ambitions up. Well, we have seen this in the Green Housing Agreement, we have seen it in relation to 2025 targets, we have seen it in the context of sustainable construction, and now we have agriculture. The rapporteur also referred to the agricultural negotiations, where we come up with something that is real reductions of 1.6 million. In addition, there is some kind of technology thing in 2029 which might save the government, and then we will have to push once again for the Social Democracy to get higher in its ambitions. Can the rapporteur not see that it would be much easier to come up with more ambitious proposals that matched what the parliamentary basis has on good ideas?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165300	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165301	First of all, I would like to say that I am often happy when Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is also happy, and then I understand that one has a hope or a desire that the government is always happy with its parliamentary basis and not only on this issue, I think, but on all other issues too. However, I would like to say that we have made a great many good agreements together, and it can be said that the agreement on the milestones in 2025 is another good example of the fact that we have also listened to some of the good recommendations that have come from, among others. The author's own lot. And it can be said that we are putting our policy forward, and then we have a broad circle of parties in the Folketing here who would like to take responsibility for climate policy, and of course we are listening to them too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165349	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165351	Well, it is good that the Social Democrats are listening to the parliamentary basis. Then I have a good proposal, and this is about the agreement that needs to be made between KL and the government, about the conditions of the municipalities. I have noted that if we relax the plant ceiling and there is no doubt that the rapporteur can be positive about good ideas, then the municipalities will be able to afford to make a much greater effort in this energy conversion in climate change. So it was just good advice on what the rapporteur could bring, and it does not even cost anything, so it must be easy to implement quickly so that it does not take six months for that agreement to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165428	I always take good advice, especially when they come from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165437	The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Tommy Ahlers from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165440	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur, because we are now in agricultural negotiations and there is one of the projects that we hope will give a great deal, the SkyClean project. Does the rapporteur think that the pool we created for carbon capture in the climate and energy agreement last June could also be used for SkyClean projects in agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165502	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165503	Thank you for the question. I am not myself in the agricultural negotiations which, among other things, are taking place. The Left and other good parties are now in the process, so I cannot answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165514	There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. We're gonna have to get the booze off. Thank you. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Tommy Ahlers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511165547	What's that for? Imagine that said in South Jutland by my mother: What's that for? When she really had to scold me and really lift it all up, she said to me: What's it for? In fact, I think I will call my speech that today: what is it for? The first one, what's it gonna do for? You can see that in the agreements we have made on energy in the last year, right back from the broad agreement on the Climate Act in 2019, we all agreed to do something, do something drastic. It was followed by many broad agreements where we delivered on it from the Climate Act. That is also what the statement says and what the statement celebrates. We have reached in the climate and energy agreement to address a wide range of areas, the pools for power-to-x, for carbon capture, we have lowered the electric heating tax. We agreed on energy islands which simply change the map for Denmark • some of the most ambitious I have been involved in. We have made a rather wild deal about the end date for oil extraction in the North Sea, while investing in new energy jobs in the area around Esbjerg. And we need that. We need, when we talk about climate policy, that it often starts with energy policy. For changes in the energy system take a very long time, and it is the change in the energy system that creates the basis for some of the other sectors, transport, industry, to adapt. That's what it's for. The next one, what's that for? It's about the international. On the one hand, everything that Danish companies are still doing around the world to make a difference with their technologies and their products is what we in Denmark and also in other countries and, fortunately, the European Union agreed to, namely to set an even more ambitious target with the 55% reduction. in 2030. UK will go up to 78%. in 2035, Germany, considering neutrality earlier than Denmark, in 2045, the United States is back in the Paris Agreement, and Biden comes again and again with aggressive, ambitious action in this area. It's super important, because it's only when the whole world moves in this area that it really does something for the climate, where it's not just about the 0.1 percent emissions we're doing here in Denmark. Then it is also important because if other countries do so, we will have such a level playing field, and I apologise for the English word here, especially for Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, and then we get the conditions reset, because the Danish companies are going to demand that they invest in this, and German companies, English companies and French companies have to do so all of a sudden. That's what it's for. The next one, what's that for? ▪ is about the cooperation between us parties, the cooperation here in the Danish Parliament, the cooperation between climate rapporteurs, energy rapporteurs and the government. We actually have a very good cooperation, and thank you all for that in this Chamber. We have made large, broad agreements on very important things, and I think that most energy and climate rapporteurs have seen that those in the parliamentary groups outside their area think it may be a little nerdy, what we are sitting with, and so is, but we think it is important, and we share that. We also find good compromises, as Mr. Jens Rohde also mentioned good compromises in the past, so that everyone can be included in the agreements and so that all the views are represented, and so many parties on both sides of the House support the ambitious change. This is important because it is about long-term framework conditions for business so that they dare to invest. It can't just change from election to election. It is important to remember the balances in society when we make major changes, and it is important because this is expensive, we are going to spend a lot of money on this, and then it is also important that many parties are involved in prioritising how we spend that money and are prepared to say: yes, this is going to be expensive, we are going to prioritise in the economy. The last is for the minister, and here I hope I can hit a little the same tone as my mother: what is it for, sir? Minister? We are making a broad agreement on the Climate Act; large parts of that agreement are settled. Everyone is happy and proud that we could make such a broad deal. We have all stood, I bet, in speeches within the last year and a half, since the climate agreement, and boasted that virtually all the parties in the Folketing are involved in this. Then we rewind the time a year and a half until Thursday and Friday of last week, and suddenly the government backs up and ends up with such a little gullible way to make a narrow red deal on the 2025 target. There have been four negotiating meetings on the 2025 target, two before Christmas and two after Christmas, and the positions were largely, as the Minister also explained, because the government maintained that it should be between 46 and 50 per cent, for anything else could be dangerous for the Danish economy. The support parties insisted that it should be 50 to 54 per cent, and the Left and also Conservatives said that we should be higher than the 46 per cent, but we had a number of questions. We have asked these questions. Something was for coal phasing out at Nordjyllandsværket, some of which we have received an answer to, but we still need to find out why it is exactly so expensive. Much of it was for the agricultural issue, and we got that answer in many of the meetings, in relation to how much the government thinks agriculture can deliver in the short term, that it cannot be answered until there is an agricultural proposal. After this, and the last meeting around 2025 was about 20 March, the agricultural proposal has come, and it shows a way forward, also what the government thinks we can deliver on agriculture in 2025. There has been a climate projection in 2021 and it shows that it has gone much further than we might even dare to hope for. That's why it was so natural to get to grips with this 2025 target again and then discuss it with this new information, what you mean now. So did the Minister, but he forgot the broad cooperation and took hold of only three parties. There wasn't a single thing about the negotiations we were told other than this tweet, and there was no way for us to understand how to get to the 50 or perhaps even the 50-54 percent. in 2025, and I don't understand that. It must have happened that after this meeting on 23 March, the Minister has gained a new knowledge which makes the Minister dare to stand within 50-54 per cent and that it is sensible and that it will not harm the Danish economy to send jobs out of the country. Why isn't the whole contract circle invited over and given that information and then discussing it? If you look at some of the Minister's statements in the press, it sounds as if it was actually the Minister's plan, and it was really my impression, when we left the last meeting, that when new information comes in, we will have to deal with it again. That causes two concerns. One concern I have raised, and that is whether the Minister cancels the broad cooperation on climate policy. Does the Minister find it a pity that so many parties are behind this, does the Minister wish to terminate the settlement, which is also in the climate agreement? And worry no. 2 is whether the minister expects that once this 2025 target has been agreed with only three red parties, only those who will then deliver narrow agreements will reach the goal. And should the narrow agreements be reached and financed through tax increases and increased costs for business? There should be no doubt that we think it is fantastic if we can reach more than 50%. That is good, and that is also why we have told the Minister that they 46 per cent. was too unambitious, but we just needed the information to say what it could be. But 2025, when we look at how to measure that target, it has to be measured with an average between 2024, 2025 and 2026. This means that the first year, which counts on the average, where we have to figure out if we have reached it, starts in 21⁄2 years, and that is just in a minute. Therefore, it is also natural to have a discussion on how to achieve it and with what means. So we are left with a question: what is it for? I hope that today's debate will help me and all these people in the Folketing to learn more about it. Then, on behalf of the Left, Conservative and Danish People's Party, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises the seriousness of climate challenges and the need for rapid and ambitious action in which the energy sector plays a key role. At the same time, the Danish Parliament notes that energy is an area that requires a clear and long-term framework because large and far-reaching investments need to be made. Therefore, the broad cooperation across the middle is essential. Parliament regrets in this respect that the government, with the recent narrow agreement with the supporting parties, has chosen towards 2025 to adopt a strategy based solely on a narrow red majority. Parliament expresses concern that this will affect employment, competitiveness and social balance. The Government is invited to resume broad cooperation and, in this context, invite all parties behind the Climate Act to discuss how it can be demonstrated that a reduction of at least 50% can be achieved. in 2025, and how it is done with the guiding principles of the Climate Act intact. • V 121). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511170528	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and for the adoption text that we pass on to the Secretariat. Here you go. It is not actually forbidden to use English terms, but it is appreciated that one speaks Danish. We've also had power-to-x in this debate. Or power for something). Or power to something that the minister said yes. There are a few brief comments to Mr. Tommy Ahlers, and the first one is from Mrs Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511170557	Thank you for your speech to Mr. Knox. Tommy Ahlers. Now I must share a secret, both with the rapporteur and the rest of the House: in the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten we have created an understanding paper with the government, which clearly states that a green ambitious direction must be set for Denmark and that there must be an ambitious climate policy. And that's why we've been smashing on, not only in relation to the climate minister, but the entire government, to get an ambitious 2025 target. But the secret is that we also have an influence on where the government stands: we move their climate policy. And I like broad agreements, understand correctly, but what I love most is ambitious climate policy. And that's why I need to hear from sir. Tommy Ahlers: Tommy Ahlers had entered the negotiating room, had we ended up with a lower 2025 target than 50-54 percent, the same climate target, or a higher one? Well, there are three outcomes here: a lower, the same, or a higher, if mr. Tommy Ahlers had been in the negotiating room?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511170703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511170705	I think that is what we can call that in a really, really good question. And when we do the math on my napkin here because I only have a student assistant and not a whole ministry to help with the calculations, then it's quite clear that when we look at farm play and when we look at climate projection, we get higher. And that is also the information we want. We still need to be able to say quite clearly: what are those different blocks that could then get us all the way to 50%?? And I would hope that such a meeting had taken place, that we had asked about it and had become convinced and could then have gone out and said: We can see that; we can see that. But we just need to remember... No, my time is over, we'll take it in the next round.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511170743	You actually have a little time left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511170751	Well, I have extra time. We just have to remember that we have just come out of the fact that the Climate Council said about the 70-percent target in 2030 that the government had not shown the way there. So it makes sense when we set a new target in 2025 that we look each other in the eye and say: can it be illustrated? And that is why I look forward one day to clarification: is the road to the 2025 target illustrated?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511170809	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511170810	Well, then we basically disagree, sir. Tommy Ahlers and I, about why we set climate targets. Because in SF we set climate targets to push the policy through, because climate targets are what bind all politicians to the mast in terms of taking climate action, even when it becomes difficult. So I just have to hear the Left: will the Left only agree to the climate target of 50-54 per cent if there can now be the direct route to that with agreed initiatives? Or is the Left actually ready to set climate targets, also for 2025, that push more climate action through?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511170842	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511170844	We want to set targets, and that is also why we went along with the 70-percent target, because we are fully buying that logic of saying that we are setting a target, even if we cannot achieve all the way there. I just think there's a difference between a target that we have to achieve when we set it ten years from now, or a goal that starts counting in already in 21⁄2 years. This may be a different discussion. We do not demand that we be able to get the full status of all the elements there, so we are also helping to encourage us to think more ambitiously. And that is also what we have said in the past about the government's announcement of 46-50 per cent.: There we were afraid that it did not make us creative good and ambitious enough in the short run. So we're completely in the logic. But when it is in such a short time, we also need to have a little more in relation to what it is that can give it. Because it is foolish to set a target that we already know we cannot achieve from the start.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511170925	Then the Social Democrat rapporteur has asked to speak. Here you go, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511170928	Thank you. I also think it was a very good question that my colleague from the SF asked, because it has just been very difficult to get the Left to state clearly what they think about this 2025 target. And we would like to quote the rapporteur: what is it for? Why can't the Left report what the Left thinks? That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it might be a yes-no question. Tommy Ahlers assess: Will the Left join the goal of an interval of 50-54 per cent. for 2025? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511171012	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511171013	I hope we can get to that. I hope that, on behalf of the climate and on behalf of the Danish business community, we can make the two things go hand in hand and that we can ensure that there is still broad support for climate policy in this country, so that it does not become the government that, together with the Red Support Parties, has to conduct climate policy in a way that makes us poorer and that drives jobs out of the country, so that we miss the opportunity to create new green growth adventures in the light of this. So I hope so. But as it is in every debate, and the rapporteur knows that too, some questions are asked for clarification. You then go into a debate and say: we also want to be ambitious, but we have to be sure that we can also measure up to what we are now going out and say after a debate. That is why we are asking a whole series of questions. We hope, then, and that is what we are saying with the text of the adoption here, that we will have the opportunity to do, by inviting us over and then telling us what information the minister has received that is different from what was said in all the meetings we sat with, where the minister found that there is obviously no majority in favour of it. Because the Minister wants it to be lower than any other party wants. Some reported clearly, and others reported less clearly. I admit it, but I guess virtually everyone is more ambitious than the government. Then what has happened since the government has moved forward? We would like to understand that, so that we can also be convinced of the wisdom of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511171127	Thank you. Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511171129	[Sound emission]... clearly is perhaps so much said when nothing is reported out. But what I'd like to ask, sir. Tommy Ahlers for now, must be: when you take so much on the road, when you are not invited to a joint agreement, does that mean that the Left is now forever and is always done trying to make agreements around the government? Because you have to understand this: if you are so tired of not being allowed to be part of this agreement, it must be because you yourself have no intention of trying to make a majority around the government, which you are trying to do, not just in this area, but in many areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511171207	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511171209	Yes, we are doing so much in relation to this, because it is in an area where we have made a broad climate agreement and where we are all bragging about the broad cooperation because we think it is the broad cooperation that will bring all Danes into the green transition. After all, we all know some people who criticise the green transition. We can be afraid of green vests. We can be afraid of yellow vests. It's different how you see it. But by having this broad cooperation on climate policy, we try to ensure that all Danes are included: Land, city, those driving in an electric car, those who still want a diesel car for many years to come, those driving in a truck, those driving in a tractor; all of them we would like to bring with us. That's what we're bitter about, that's that we couldn't stand together on something as important as a sub-target in 2025, after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511171248	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. We just need to get drunk so we can get ready for DF's rapporteur, and that's Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511171317	Thank you, President. After listening to the Minister, both to the exchange of views and to the opening words, I would like to invite him to my home privately for dinner, both so that he could get out of the plant-based environment he seems to have come into with the left wing, but also for reasons other than gastronomic, because we have above our dining table in the dining room a painting showing such an adventure universe, where the immediate hero is chasing for the goddess of happiness, while the one who really loves him lies vain on earth, and one sees in the background that death is catching up with him. And this is very similar to the situation in which the Minister has brought himself. There are some of us who say, when the Minister plays out, that we can see ourselves in that and where we are begging that we can make a sensible deal • Let us now join forces a little. But no, that is not good enough for the Minister. He is chasing after the diffuse happiness that he thinks he achieves by going out to the edge of the abyss with the left, and he does not see that behind him comes the accident because he did not listen to those who would keep him on the financially responsible path. Then we must see whether the Minister should sit face to face the picture or with his back to keep his appetite. But there is something fundamentally strange about making such an agreement, as we saw last week, when we have had broad climate agreement for several years now, almost two years. This is almost equivalent to making a financial law agreement with one side of the Folketing, after which you conclude a half-yearly agreement with the other side of the Folketing, which then goes in a completely different direction. Then you can be a little disappointed. And when you ask how it can be, you're told it's because we have another target in nine years. But that doesn't change anything, Minister. We can then in the Danish People's Party, because we have a different financial responsibility or understanding in relation to this question, easily say that it would probably be wiser, at least while the corona is raging etc., to adjust the climate target down to 65%. and then at the same time help the government to implement an economically sound policy in relation to a sub-objective. That certainly cannot explain why, as a government, 8 percentage points are suddenly jumped from 46 to 54 and say: no, we would rather do that with the left. The only thing that can explain it is politics. Well, politics blows up all logical laws because it is more important to be a minister than it is to implement its own policy. And then you can get a little sloppy. That is why I am also pleased with the proposal for adoption on which we bourgeois parties have agreed today, and I hope, regardless of the fact that it is now as it is and that things are as they stand, that the Minister will nevertheless listen a little to it, not least in relation to the important negotiations we are currently having in relation to the whole electricity network and other essential things where it will be one, I would say, accident, if you create a new practice in which you choose to conduct things alone with one side of the Folketing. I do not think that serves the minister's reputation or Denmark. So I repeat my call: let us get back on the track where we listen to each other and where we try to find each other. And, of course, everyone must be affected by the corona and the increase in government debt, etc., which is the result of this, and, of course, we should also be able to have a discussion on whether the climate target should be adjusted by 2030 without simply throwing away and making an irresponsible agreement with the left. And just in relation to the climate target, I would like to remind you that if you did what we are proposing and went down to 65%, we would still be gone, I think, among the top three in the world and the top of the European Union. So the great disaster wouldn't be. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511171751	Thank you. I am in the middle of the Rules of Procedure because it was actually the case that Mr. Tommy Ahlers got 10 minutes' speaking time, so he got a little extra, you might say, today. Morten Messerschmidt He also needs it). That's actually how I'm told it was a wrong number here. You have 10 minutes when it is a co-operation, so I do not know if the DF's rapporteur has anything more to say?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511171820	Well, now it's like I'm trying to form some connections in my speeches, and that's why it's hard to start over now, but thanks for the offer. I think I'll give up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511171833	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Then we welcome the SF rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511171851	Thank you. Even though Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is a friendly person, I'm not sure he would approve if I took the 5 minutes and left for my 10 minutes. No, I'll stick to the time available for the SF. There is no doubt that the energy sector is, and has been, the crux of Danish climate policy, and that is why I would just like to say that although political discussions are often about some processes and various other things, there is a very uplifting reading in this energy statement, and there are a lot of important development tracks that we have laid out. What one should always remember is that even if one is on the way, one is not necessarily in the goal, and that is also the case with the green transition of the energy sector here in Denmark. We can actually see it when we just look at the dry figures: the RE share in energy consumption in 2030 is only 58 per cent, and the RE share in the flow does come up and just gets 100 per cent, but then it actually falls a little again. So we must continue to drive more green energy policy towards 2030. The same goes for the gas network, because although it is entering the green transition we have experienced with the flow, we are still only 73 per cent away. biogas in the network in 2030. So it is just to say that there is still very important green conversion that needs to be ensured in the Danish energy sector. In the SF we are full of good proposals that can be used to bring us fully into line with the green transition of the energy sector. It's getting rid of the private gas guys. It's getting natural gas, oil and coal all the way away in district heating. That's following the VE setup to the door. It is pushing power-to-x, or as the Minister rightly said, and which is what I like to call it, namely power-to-something, as it must be in Jutland, and having it moved from demonstration to production. We can also still save more energy, so there is a lot more we can do. The statement also clearly describes that the climate objective of the Paris Agreement, that is to say, that of keeping temperature development below 2 degrees and preferably below 1.5 degrees, does not only require Denmark to make a great effort. I mean, it's a matter of foreign participation. You can also see from this explanation that Denmark helps the rest of the world with their green transition, and very clearly it is when you zoom in on the energy collaborations we have with the rest of the world. Sometimes inside this hall there is such a delusion that it makes no difference in the rest of the world that Denmark is so far advanced in the green transition. But it does. For the reason that we have 16 very concrete energy policy collaborations with the rest of the world is precisely that in Denmark green conversion is not a theory and some exciting talk at the university; it is something we do practically. It is not the case that in the United States Denmark would have been asked to come and tell about how to set up more offshore wind turbines if Denmark had not done so. It is not the case that Ukraine had called the Danish Energy Board and asked if they did not have a theoretically good idea of how to get more renewable energy into the energy system. It's because we've done it. So every time there is the confusion in the debate that it is no use that Denmark takes the lead in the green transition, you can save yourself the many words and hand over the energy statement for 2021. Another very important step forward, as we did in 2020, is a matter which is very close to me personally, which is also very close to SF, and which in fact illustrates very clearly what important progress Denmark is making in these years, and that was to say clearly and clearly to the rest of the world: Josif has oil and gas production in the Danish North Sea been a major part of the Danish identity, especially in Esbjerg and for the people who have worked on these drilling platforms, and it has been a great part of the Danish self-conception that one was an oil producing country. Why was it so important to SF and to me? It was because it is precisely to show the rest of the world that in Denmark we believe fully in the green energy conversion. We are turning down both the consumption of natural gas and oil, but also the production, and we are actually saying that by 2050 it will be over. We are actually saying that no more large tendering rounds are being made in Denmark. It's stopped. We canceled the eighth round of invitations to tender. I am absolutely certain that there are climate activists in the rest of the world, that there are green politicians and that there are hopeful young people who will point to their government leaders and their politicians and say: You can also close the taps; you can also make a vital contribution to achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement and leave a large part of the fossil reserves in the ground, because Denmark has done so; they have taken that step. And there is no doubt that if you want to make a difference like a small country, you have to take the lead in using the words of the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. We have also taken other, historically important steps, and these are historically important steps. It is not all of them, but starting to build energy islands off the Danish west coast and in the Baltic Sea is it. And why is that? Yes, it is again because we are laying an important stepping stone to the electrification that the rest of Europe also has to go through, namely to take on board the great vision that is, after all, to get offshore wind turbines out into the North Sea and get them done practically. Again, the green transition goes from being something that may theoretically be possible to something that is happening in reality. In conclusion, there is always the important phrase in energy and climate policy, namely that we are well on the way, but that we are not in goal, and the SF has very many good ideas for the next steps in the green transition of the energy sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511172609	Thank you to Mrs Signe Munk. There are no brief comments. Signe Munk Then I clean). Thank you. Then we will prepare for the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go to the Radical Left rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511172632	Thank you. It is always a pleasure to have a summary of the year in the energy industry. As the Minister rightly said, this has been another historic year. We've had a series of big breakthroughs. It's been busy. It's been intense. As has already been mentioned, we can take note of the North Sea, where we have cancelled the eighth round of invitations to tender. I am particularly sensitive to the fact that we have adopted a climate law which is an ambitious, good, strong climate law. We haven't gotten far enough. This is not least illustrated by the Climate Council's crushing judgment on Denmark's climate policy: We have not done enough. And that is why it is clear, when you read the year's statement, that every year must be historic, and what we see this year we must repeat it and then repeat it. We have come a long way this year, among other things. with the adoption of the energy islands. Now I think that the solution is finally coming up on a scale where it matches the challenge. There's nothing funny and funny about these offshore wind farms anymore. It is on an industrial scale; it is a huge dimensioning. It is for the time being set to modest 10 GW, although it is as large as it is. But this is only the beginning if we are to meet the potential of perhaps 150 GW in the North Sea that the Commission is proposing. We are not just going to mess with Denmark's accounting here; we are going to help the whole of Europe with green power. But the pace must also be increased. In this year alone, we expect negotiations on ccs and ccu and ptx, and I particularly look forward to the negotiations on an electrification strategy. After all, in the future we will need twice as much power as we use today. We simply need to switch all sorts of other sources to power. We need to get the transport on power, and we need to get the heat on power. The heat pumps and the new technology must rush into a very, very high pace if we are to have a realistic chance of achieving our ambitious goals. So more must be done in one year than in the last five years, and that is how it should continue to go forward. When you read this account with all the things that have happened, a special source of regret is of course the setback of the year, for there have been some of them too. Here I would like to mention the gas pipeline to Lolland, which will mean that more companies will be connected to the gas network and that gas will be used and then precious biogas will be used in sugar production for many, many years to come. I am also sorry for the fate that has become the Omøhavnsvindemøparken. Here we could have both received 23,000 tonnes of CO2 and I would very much like to call on the government to fight vigorously with the Commission to get this project up and running in good, fair coexistence with bird life, which we are not trying to threaten. That means there's a bump on the road. Not only do we need a higher pace; we also need to stop making these bumps on the road. But, of course, it's gonna be a fight. Of course, I would also like to call on V and K to support the 50-54 per cent target. reduction in 2025. It will allow access to the concrete implementation and it will be able to restore some of the cooperation that I can hear the bourgeois parties seem threatened by this ambitious announcement. I must assure you that has not been the intention and the agreement is open and one can agree with it. And I would certainly call for this to be done so that we can continue to have these debates in agreement in an attempt to reach where we want to go. For a peculiarity of Danish energy policy is precisely that policy extends across the middle. It is not the case that every time there is a change of government you get a new policy on the contrary, we have here a policy which is broadly based in the Folketing, and it should very much like to remain so. It is also our only chance of achieving the great task that we have set ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511173040	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511173105	Thank you. In the spring they saw the sentence: We dare, where others hesitate. It may well be, and now the statement is from the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, so it must actually be the Minister's statement, which then also covers the government's position, or refers it to Denmark, that is, that it is Denmark that dares, where others hesitate, or how should we read it? I think that a little too much is sometimes hesitated. I think that we should include the people in the transition to renewable energy and in the implementation of energy savings. Therefore, municipalities, associations, co-owned energy companies are important in the conversion process, and it is important that we all get along and see it when we make energy policy. The green housing agreement with settlement of the queue for renovations in the Landsbygningfonden was a very important agreement. The government did not think that it could just go out and wind up a queue of 17 billion, but we managed to make commitments for renovations to EUR 15 billion by 2020. At the same time, we got an agreement where there are also new opportunities in relation to a green guarantee, which hopefully can boost even more renovations in general housing. I think it is a good example of how we have had some processes where we had something better done than the government's initiative and we found new solutions. Civil Energy Communities could also be part of the joint climate and energy efforts of the future. But with the legislation that has been adopted, I do not think that is where we end up. There is no real prospect that the roofs of housing associations will turn into energy-producing roofs in some community with neighbors. We think that in the Enhedslisten is a shame. In the past year, we have changed the conditions for neighbours to large renewable energy plants, and I hope that this will be a success. What we had originally was something that had become prehistoric, and I very much hope that we will come to a situation where we will have a better neighbourhood for large renewable energy installations. If we look at the municipalities, there is a refurbishing delay in relation to the buildings. This is partly true in the regions too, but it is particularly true in the municipalities. We think it is very important that we arrive at more renovations of municipal buildings and that we arrive at a much better indoor climate to ensure a better working environment, and it can be ensured that this year we come to lift the plant ceiling. In general, we think that we should give the municipalities better opportunities to participate in the sustainable transition. There are many places where municipalities have set targets for CO2 There is a very clear tendency for renewable energy installations to increase. We hear about a lot of huge field plants with solar cells that get local resistance. It is local farmers with large farms, and it is some energy companies that are marking and deciding the development and then maybe put their plants in a place where you can get the cheapest grid connection, which does not always mean that there is local support for it. Frankly, I think we need to find solutions where we use the many flat roofs of the cities and we need to limit the conflicts in the countryside around these large solar installations. So there is room for improvement on that point. Energy islands are the next development step for offshore wind turbines. We are about to export electricity from huge installations at sea. This is a huge new step for the Danish wind turbine industry. In relation to Baltic Pipe, which was just to be a gas pipeline that was dug down in Denmark to bring Norwegian fossil gas down to Poland, unfortunately, it happened that an extension of the fossil gas pipeline was adopted mainly to Lolland and Falster to two sugar factories. It is a project which clearly has a socio-economic bad effect and in which Energinet did not recommend it to be implemented, but where it ended up being approved by the Minister. This seems to us to be a major mistake. We are going to electrify the industry, and now there is the prospect that not only two sugar factories on Lolland and Falster will choose gas, but that it can become a large number of companies, rather than being committed to electrification. We think this is a bad chapter in energy history. Biogas is too expensive in relation to the climate effect. The aid is being blocked too late, and it is not the fault of the current government, it is the fault of the previous government. There will just be an extra bill of 6.6 billion, which the Social Democratic Government has just found a solution to it just like being included in the economy forward-looking. It is always good to know that if you really want to, then the government can find 6.6 billion for good action. We have written that behind the ear in the Enhedslisten. If we look forward a little, there is the prospect that by 2030 will over 50 per cent. of the support for renewable energy goes to biogas. I think it helps to illustrate that support has been raised to an excessively high level, because if you look at 2030, there is a forecast that says that only 13%. of renewable energy comes from biogas. We believe that this support has reached an excessively high level. I choose to bring it forward here because we have these agricultural negotiations where you never know what is going on. Enhedslisten believes that we should have more geothermal in district heating, and the framework conditions will be checked here this year. These are long-term investments that we need to secure. We need to ensure that we get more geothermal in district heating systems. We generally think that district heating fills too little in the energy debate, and we must ensure that there is a good interaction in our overall energy system. There is too much planned in systems that are not concocted enough. We need to electrify society and the possibilities of district heating can be better exploited. Denmark has ended up with excessive imports of biomass, which must be phased out. At the same time, we have biogas production, which can only be so large because we import soya from an area larger than Zealand, so that we have the opportunity to have far more livestock than Danish fodder crops can feed. Is Denmark a pioneering country? Can we copy our energy supply? No, we cannot do that, and it is mainly because of the large imports of biomass and soya. But we are a pioneering country in terms of district heating, large wind turbines and an electricity system that can handle large amounts of electricity from sun and wind at the same time, and we are a pioneer country in terms of high security of supply. We must remember this, and we must also bear it in mind when we consider whether there is an export potential for Denmark. There is no point in Denmark working alone to increase green investment. We must also work towards a rapid phasing-out of black investment abroad. It can be done much better. This also applies to Danish state funds such as the Export Credit Fund. A decision has been taken that coal will no longer be invested, but the government will be prepared to make the same decision when it comes to other fossil fuels. It is a shame to undermine the government's efforts to make Denmark a green pioneer, including in our international efforts. What can we look forward to? The next step will hopefully be to introduce a CO2 One of the good proposals that the Climate Council has made to politicians is that this is a simple way of introducing something that can influence a change. We are about to have to land an agricultural agreement in which the government has come up with a proposal that has real reductions of 1.6 million. t, i.e. a 10% reduction. in relation to the emissions in 2030. You then have some birds on the roof that can give significantly more. So we have to come up with some real reductions, and we think that a level of 8-10 million. t by 2030 will be reasonable. We dare where others hesitate. At least that is something we will vouch for in the Enhedslisten. We don't really know about the government. Perhaps it should look back at what it was like with the processes around the 2025 target, the green housing agreement, the sustainable construction strategy and now an agricultural initiative. Is it not often the case that we have an issue where we have hesitated a little too much and where we then have a long way to go, where we need to use a lot of political forces to push the government to a higher level? Is it so reasonable to push the government's so much? Yes, it is when you have an understanding paper, where you have defined some things, what is the government's baptism certificate. We have implemented some things such as the Climate Act, but we therefore need to achieve binding reduction targets for the agricultural sector and to use agricultural aid to make the sustainable conversion of agriculture. There are plenty of things we have to work on here in 2021. I hope that we will have an even better energy policy statement 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511174103	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511174126	Thank you. It's a nice green picture, this statement gives of where we're going in Denmark, and we all want to be a leading country and get the first goal in many areas • not only to win the battle, but simply also because we want a green, sustainable and climate-friendly country to live in. The rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Tommy Ahlers, earlier here called his speech: What is it for? I have chosen to call my speech here: we must bring everyone with us. For there are many good things in the statement • there are very many good plans and agreements, and there are also some concrete things that have already been implemented, for example. the phasing out of oil and gas guys and an energy renovation pool but the problem is just sometimes that you can sit and do a lot at your desk, but when it comes out in reality, it's a lot harder. For example: was there in connection with the energy renovation pool a lot of those who sat out there and were ready to search, who didn't know that you had to have a valid energy label in advance. Most of those who have lived in their house for over 5 years have not, and a new energy label costs 5,000 DKK. Several people have written to me that they ended up paying $1,200. And then sit in line for 10 hours. That is, not only were they queued in half a day to participate in a lottery, but the ticket cost more than DKK 7,000. They would never have done it if they had had an idea of how it was connected, but on the website was the only communication that in the last years it had taken a few days to empty the pot, so they figured that when they were ready, they would succeed. So they probably won't go looking for a pool again, because you have to have an energy label less than 3 months old, and if they don't win, they can stand to lose the lottery again. It's just an example of how it's very important that we get everyone on board. We must bring all citizens. One year ago, all the climate partnerships were ready with all their good proposals. They were just about to launch them when the Prime Minister shut Denmark down. The whole business is on the verge of jumping. There is a great deal they want and they also have many solutions. It is 11⁄2 years ago that a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament adopted the Climate Act and also that ptx, mentioned several times, is an important technology that can transform green energy into liquid fuel, for both it and the other two good abbreviations, CUU and CCS, are, of course, essential to achieving our targets by 2030 and to free us completely from fossil fuels by 2050. Yet it just doesn't really happen enough, because a strategy is just not enough. We could hear from an earlier KEF meeting that the new CEO for Ørsted said that the only thing they wanted to do was actually get a clear framework conditions • simple, because then they can get started. Because while we sit here and think and want to do it so nicely and properly, the other countries are driving. Although the statement says that we have also been green during the Corona crisis, we are not the only ones who have been. Both France and Germany have adopted their strategies, and they are not just sitting at the drawing board, but have them converted into major flagship projects. Even Poland has a power-to-x strategy. Now, of course, we do not know about the quality of it, but it just says something about the whole of Europe moving forward, and they do, because the EU has set a target of at least 55%, and because, together with the government, we have supported the government in it, we have created a huge recovery package for the whole of Europe, with 37 per cent. must go to the green switch. So it is important that we also keep up with our companies. We are all talking about a climate agreement. We all want to be green. We will, and we have given our hands on it, sign it. Because what we are facing is all too important, too important, for us to make this a political joke. And that is why we were really sorry that we did not just come here in the last 50 per cent agreement. It would have been great if we could stand there and be there; then we were all there, and none of us stood on the platform. So both our business community, our citizens, but also the Folketing, want to be part of the green transition. And I certainly hope that the Minister will take note of this in the future. Last but not least, there is talk of how far we have come. At the same time, there are proposals for the hockey staff and the technology. The report also mentions that it is very good that the European Union has research funds and Horizon Europe and that we are very good at taking back funds. The problem is, of course, still that it is not real funds; they then lie with the second resort, but we are still against the funds we receive from the European Union in the Danish 1 percentage objective for research. We find this extremely problematic. We are even stronger now, and because of brexit, unfortunately, Danish universities and our knowledge institutions are now at the forefront of being able to take back funds from Horizon Europe. But as long as we just set them off in our research budget, they do not give what they really have to do, and then the talk of a hockey stick and the technologies of the future becomes more theoretical than real. So, again, we must ensure that we get everyone involved, including our research and experts, and also ensure that we have the means to do so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511174743	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511174746	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. There are, of course, many important tasks to be done, among others. to complete a power-to-x strategy, but there is also just an important framework to set. It's all about this 2025 target. And the Conservatives need to know that it is an agreement that is open to the Conservatives. I have always known the Conservative People's Party as the greenest Therefore, if the rapporteur now knows that Conservatives can accede to the agreement on a 2025 target of 50-54 per cent, will the Conservative People's Party accept it, in other words, set the ambitious climate target for 2025? Or do you want a lower climate target?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511174824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511174827	Thank you for the question. And I would also very much like to sign Mrs Signe Munk to put good pressure on the government to be ambitious and green. I thank you very much for your ambition, but I would like to go back and talk to our climate rapporteur about it, as I cannot take that decision alone here. But thank you very much for inviting me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511174848	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511174850	Well then, I just want to give you an argument on the way, because in addition to the fact that it is absolutely crucial that we set climate targets that make us beat up the CO2 reductions because we have a responsibility for the next generations, a generation contract that I know the Conservatives are extremely concerned about. And then I would just like to say that the Conservatives may of course be the party that makes that agreement broad, because they would be the first bourgeois party to join the 2025 target.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511174922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511174924	Thank you. I always take good advice from sharp colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511174928	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur, I can see in the Chamber, is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511174944	Thank you. The coming are mountains in flames of lust for life and singing birds that will sing flimsyly and strongly about the resurrection of the earth. The coming is thunder of voices proclaimed over the city's pretoxicating abyss with the strength of the sum of all senses. We conquer our planet again, break the images of the stiffened cement computers of us. We are the new people, our souls we sing out, so the mediocrity of deceivers and rulers will burst into pieces and fear. We are the new clarity gained in the fight against the machines, we are the new creative power that creates the beauty and eternity of the ruins of the old in technology, in nature, in science, in the art of unity, in the city, in space. The coming is the victory and wisdom gained by the child's song about the flower's electric wave signal. The coming is the new/old, the alien/of course/known, the recognition of the healing context found in friendship and words between stars and people from the world. Michael Strunge, Life's Velocity, 1978. When I brought it along, it was beyond just kicking a little life into the debate, because it is immensely important when we discuss these major changes in society that we all have to be a motor of ourselves, that we dare to talk to dreams, that we dare to create something fantastic, that we dare to believe that we can create something fantastic, that we are not only talking to fear, that we are not only scolding, but that we dare to dream the big dreams and dare to say them, but that at the same time we understand that it all depends on us getting everyone along and that we can make the compromises. So, what's the point? It may seem like an anachronism, as a contradiction, that you stand here talking about dreams and think Michael Strunge is fantastic, and that you stand here and think that Mr. Tommy Ahler's speech was good and Mrs. Signe Munk's speech was fantastic. How can you do that? Yes, you can if you have been sitting in the European Parliament and when I mention it, it is because it has the Minister. The European Parliament can hear some fantastic speeches where there is really a wingsus of history, the great dreams. The European Union is created by the great dreams, and you can feel that, and even though the waves can also go high, and even though there is the same Sturm und Drang as in Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's painting over the living room, which almost seems like a depiction of Goethe's •The young Werther's sufferings • from 1774, you can make the compromises anyway. It's the most amazing thing. In the house where the differences are enormous, there are 27 different countries, 24 different languages, widely different cultural backgrounds, historical backgrounds, economic backgrounds, geographical backgrounds, it matters when negotiating agricultural policy, I should like to say that I usually manage to land broad compromises between the Greens, between Christian Democrats, between Liberals and Social Democrats. That's what makes it beautiful, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, that is to say, despite the great differences and even if you dare to move out there where the dreams get air under your wings, you are able to land broad compromises. And that's what this is all about. And that is actually what I would like to mention, as in my question earlier, so that when our climate minister sometimes gets a bit of criticism of the support parties, and I myself have been in one of the parties, that is, he must have the heart warm, but also have ice cream in his stomach. Firstly, there is no one in the European Parliament who, when the Minister comes to Brussels, does not know the Minister for his climate action during all the years that the Minister was sitting in the European Parliament and that gives something to trade with, and secondly, it is clear that the government in its policy actually wants to balance things. Then we can discuss hockey batons, and what do I know, but the balance the government has been trying to keep on this issue so far, among other things. By making the broad settlement all the time, it tipped off last week. Now, as I said, we were not part of it ourselves, because it is a new situation and something like that, and I fully understand that, but I understand that the bourgeois side feels a little taken by the nose or by the underrun, because they have been involved in making the big deal and then suddenly partial agreements are concluded afterwards. That is the sure way to not get everyone involved, and if we do not get everyone involved in the changes in society that we are making here, we will end up with the yellow vests, and we must avoid that for everything in the world. We in the Christian Democrats think it is fantastic about the great ambitions, and we, as the first bourgeois party, Mrs Signe Munk, want to join the milestones. We would like to, but we would also very much like to have an open-minded discussion on technology neutrality, and that is what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen to Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg thought it was something worse to get involved in, and there he had of course realised that it also includes a new and modern approach to nuclear power. And no, I would like to stress that it is not the policy of the Christian Democrats that we are going to have nuclear power stations, as we know them, in the backyard or in the fields. However, there is already the fusion technology of European ITER, which is also nuclear power, and then we think it is sensible, if this is to be a sustainable transformation, to look at research carried out in the field of salt power stations without prejudice, as I know, does not pose a great risk either in terms of terrorist attacks or waste. We believe that Danish research institutions and companies and energies should be assessed according to the same criteria for sustainability, waste, natural resources and economy as any other energy production. This must be the right way to do it instead of falling in love with certain technologies, where we do not know in advance which will in future be the most advanced. As I have said, it is always our goal in itself to try to achieve broad conciliation and to be involved in broad conciliation, and we hope that this will also be the future of these discussions. For one thing, you have to remember, and that is that, regardless of your own ambitions, you must always listen to the doubts that come from others, and in the end it is not crucial what color the cat has, as long as it can catch mice. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511175941	Thank you. Now the rapporteur read from Michael Strunge with great commitment, so I do not think anyone was in doubt that it was a quote, but for the sake of good order and for the sake of the rapporteur, one must always remember to say when the quote starts and when it ends. But there is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511180000	After all, there is no doubt that Mr. Jens Rohde has lost his heart in Brussels, and this is an honest matter. I left this behind and returned to it when I returned from Parliament to the Folketing here, but when Mr. Jens Rohde speaks so warmly about the broad settlement for the sake of the broad conciliation, would he not like to clarify it a little, with reference to his European commitment? So, isn't there anything weird about making a broad settlement without the parties that have promised that we agree with what was the government's starting point? I could see myself in the proposal made by the government, yet the government chooses to make a settlement which is diametrically opposed, at least quite different from what they played out with, and then makes it with the left. - Sir... Jens Rohde may help us, with the experience he has from the broad settlement battlefields in Brussels, to understand the Jens Rohde Forligs? ) No, no, that is plural's genius, what is behind it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511180105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511180106	You always have to be a little bit careful about motif researching, but you can do that exercise on your own, I don't think I need to do it up here from Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511180126	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511180127	Well, then let me ask you something else, when we cannot interpret together, otherwise something very festive could come out of it, and perhaps Mr. Jens Rohde comes home at the dinner table too. Jens Rohde then I can read). Now that the Christian Democrats are joining this red deal, does this also mean that the Christian Democrats are joining the climate agreement itself on the reduction target by 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511180152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511180152-2	Yes, it does, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511180158	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. Then we are through the rapporteur's line. We're gonna get a little booze off here first. Here you go to the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511180228	Thank you, President. Oh, my God. Thank you for a lot of really, really good speeches. In fact, I do not believe that in such a debate before I have tried both to be invited to fine dinner, even with a view, I understand, to a slightly erotic painting of course, I have actually been invited to that before, but not here in the Assembly Hall and poetry reading. There was Michael Strunge. In fact, I think the President also overlooked the fact that there was a single quote from Mao without it being clearly stated in the speech. I've even been scolded in South Jutland. It's been a pleasure. I believe that what we must all agree on is that Denmark has come very, very far with the green transformation of our energy policy. It is clear with the very big decisions that have been made, about a 70-percent reduction target by 2030 compared to 1990; about going into a new era of sea winds with energy islands and putting an end to oil and gas in the North Sea; and then I have not mentioned all the other very big decisions that we have made, about phasing out oil and gas pine etc. etc. These decisions, of course, bear witness to how ambitious a policy we have pursued in Denmark. In this debate it has come to light that, after all, there are also some differences. Before passing on these differences, I would just like to remind you that, for the most part, these agreements have been made by a very broad majority. Having said that, I must, after all, point out some of it a little, I would not call it hypocritical, but at least a little problematic in the way that the Left argues in particular. For from the Left, I can now understand that more important than the government actually agreeing with its support parties on a very ambitious objective that we intend to achieve, it is that the Left was given an answer to its questions. We should have set it aside and waited for the Left to get an answer to their questions, despite the fact that we have held a number of meetings on it, despite the fact that there is free access to ask all the questions you want, despite the fact that everyone can also see that there is a certain amount of political play in this, since the Left, last time we discussed it in this Chamber, said that they were very afraid that if we set the target too low on the part of the government, it would become a sleeping pillow for the government. Now we set a goal that is high. Then all of a sudden it's a problem too. If you think that sir... Tommy Ahlers is always a quiet and calm person, you should see him if he sees the chance to get a majority around the government. Then the pulse comes up. It excels, sir. Tommy Ahlers in. He did it just last year. Right after we had this debate, he brought the undersigned in a minority in consultation because he wanted to have some negotiations on incorporation requirements. It was too slow, and when were we going to negotiate them? The next day. So the fact that it has to be so wide does not quite stand for the Left if they have the opportunity to bring the government into the minority. And peace be to it. That is the parliamentary game. I just think it's part of the overall story. We want a broad majority. It is clearly best for Denmark. It is just as clear as Mrs Signe Munk, I think it was, said that it cannot of course mean that we fundamentally compromise with our ambitions. Have we seen examples that we have had to make agreements without the Left? Yes, the agreement on road transport. This is one of the most important ways of achieving our goal. There's no left. The Left has long been asking for an initiative in the field of agriculture. They've got that, but now we can't figure out what the Left thinks. When will there be a play from the Left? In other words, we also want the large opposition party to be part of Denmark's climate policy, but that requires them to have a policy. On Funen, where I come from, we have seen a very active environmental policy, namely Erling Bonnesen, and he also makes flaming speeches. It's with a slightly different sign than when sir. Tommy Ahlers is giving speeches. So you could start by answering whether you want to join in 50-54 per cent. What do you really think about that CO2 Tommy Ahlers would like to get very, very high, but as I thought you heard some a little different signals from Mr. Erling Bonnesen, when it emerged from the Environmental Economic Council, that the model that Mr. Tommy Ahlers had supported or at least something similar would cost 19,000 jobs in the food sector? So in all silence, it's easier to negotiate with parties, you know what you mean. Maybe it was a little easier for Mr. Knox. Tommy Ahlers to join the debate with a little weight if he had a policy in the backpack. Having said that, thank you for a very good debate. There are important negotiations ahead of us in the coming year. One of the first ones we meet, of course, is how to create a strategy for CO2 It will be one of the technologies we need. This will be one of the technologies that we will also have to meet globally if we are to achieve the targets we have set ourselves and keep ourselves below 1.5 degrees temperature increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511180811	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511180815	As the Minister knows, I always have the bag full of new proposals to improve energy policy. I think the Minister is familiar with this after two years of very good cooperation. That is why I have a new proposal today. For the Minister quite rightly said that we have an ambition to phase out oil and gas pine at home with the Danes. But it is also an ambition in which we know very well that we will not get rid of the gas guys with the billions of grant pools we have set aside. In SF we have looked beyond the country's borders and discovered that in the Netherlands and elsewhere we are working on a ban on gas guys. In the past, when we have had the discussion, there has been a discussion about whether EU legislation is in the way, but apparently there are countries in Europe that set themselves that goal. So will the Minister take part in looking at it and implement it in Danish legislation so that we can send the natural gas guys fully into retirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511180922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511180923	Now Mrs Signe Munk said she always had new ideas. Despite the fact that I would like to start by signing off on the good cooperation, it is not quite possible to call it a new idea, even from Mrs Signe Munk. I also believe that it was possible to get written into the agreement we made before Christmas I think it was the financial law agreement; a number of agreements were made before Christmas, so I can't just remember what one of them was about where we committed ourselves to examining what was possible for it at European level. As far as I am aware, the rules of the internal market are not allowed to prohibit a particular heating technology, as is technically the case. But there is no doubt that we share a common ambition to phase out oil and gas pine. So, of course, we look in all directions. I will certainly also look into the information that Mrs Signe Munk brought with her today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181012	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181014	But what's so amazing is that while we've got you thinking about it, other countries are moving. In fact, Austria has also set a stop date for both oil and gas pine. That's why it's interesting to find out. So I just want to hear the Minister: if it is not possible to make a stop on Danish soil, will the Minister be ready to put a very high tax on if you reinstall a gas guy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181038	We are not there yet where we are going to reopen the part of our energy and industry package that we made less than 1 year ago, almost 1 year ago, but less than 1 year ago. But at some point we have to do so, and there we have to go to the various instruments that are open. It is clear that what we actually have in relation to the European Union is crucial. I would say that the fact that some countries are working for something is not the same as that it can be done, since we are working for a number of things ourselves at European level right now, knowing that this is not possible. That is why we are working to change it, for example. the phasing-out of petrol and diesel vehicles by 2030 is understood as new on the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181119	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181122	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. When the Minister goes so hard to ask where it was, Conservatives and Lefts now emphasis was placed mainly on the Left here in the final debate that was in connection with the 2025 target, then I think this really is politics when it is worst. How can the minister of one hour change his mind in relation to what has been mentioned in the negotiations from start to finish? I had the impression that we were waiting for the government; that we were waiting for the government to move. There are hardly any parties standing anywhere else than the government did. What exactly enabled the Minister to change as much as 8%? additional to the 2025 target, which we did not have the opportunity to take part in a discussion on?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181210	We have said from the outset when we presented our proposal that this was the starting point for negotiations. And it also has something to do with what time you would negotiate it. We said that it was perhaps very sensible to wait until we had seen the new climate projection and until we had seen an overall agricultural proposal. If we are to present it before that, which, among other Left and Conservatives, insisted that we should, then it is clear that then we will have to put ourselves at the cautious end. So what actually happened, which I think the questioner also knows very well, was that we got a new climate projection that brought us closer to the target • mostly due to biogas, but also because of a few other factors • plus that we presented an agricultural proposal where we can see that there seems to be support for the reduction target that we have put forward. That's why it means that the manko has been brought down. It's still big. It's still ambitious. But that's what's made us move. So it doesn't change the way you have exactly the same information as us, and despite the pressure and pressure that you put on and say: Now we want a more ambitious policy... that when that policy comes, you can't bite to fuck.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181312	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181313	The Minister doesn't know that yet. For what I look forward to hearing is how the Minister has found out that we can actually move up to 50-54 per cent. If the Minister can convince Conservatives of this, of course we agree with the objective. We think it is strong But does this also mean that the Minister can come up with agreements in the climate legislation that we thought we shared, for example. together with the blue block if you can call it that in relation to the farm proposal, and that we should make an agreement there? Perhaps we could agree on that right now, perhaps even in one hour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181350	That all depends on the level of ambition. We would prefer to have broad agreements, but these are not broad agreements at all costs, just as they were not in relation to the Climate Act. If the bourgeois hadn't backed the 70%, then it would have been without the bourgeoisies. Fortunately, now you did. I also hope that you will support the 2025 target, but if you do not, we must try to get it through ourselves. And we have a majority for that, so we get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181415	Thank you. Then it's mr. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181418	Thank you, Minister. I guess I just have to arrest the comparison between the 70-percent target and the 2025 target, because the 70-percent target was agreed before we made a climate agreement. It is true that the rhetoric was that if you said yes to the 70-percent target, it was an entry ticket for the debate. But now we are negotiating under the Climate Act, and that is where we have the broad agreement, so I fully share Mrs Juul's view that this is a good thing, and I said this in my speech too, if we can achieve the 50%, and we would also like to be convinced that we can do it, because that is what we have to do, and then we have to stick to it as with the 70% target. But when we see the information available to us, as I said earlier, we cannot quite see the way there, so I would also like to ask what has happened since the Minister said during the debate on R 11 on 21 December: 'That is one of the reasons why we are not so high. Because we do not think that we will be a pioneer country if what we are reducing leads us to move jobs out of the country. So that was the argument for 46 per cent. What, then, has changed in the meantime?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181522	I have just replied to that, but it is nevertheless remarkable that the last, Mr President-in-Office. Tommy Ahlers stood in that place and talked to me about exactly that theme, he said: such a goal must not become a sleeping pillow you have to set the goal so ambitious that you push yourself. That statement can be looked up. And now that we do so and set a target so ambitious that we have to push ourselves, Mr. Tommy Ahlers doesn't really know if he's in it. The two new things that have happened have happened several things, but these are the two most important things: that we have a new climate projection that shows that we are closer and that we have presented an agricultural proposal that brings us well along the road. There will still be a shortfall of about 1 million tonnes and perhaps a little more until 2025, which we must then seek a majority in the Folketing to find.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181606	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181607	That's exactly what I'm saying: what the government was playing out with was too unambitious and that you had to be pushed to become more ambitious, but we needed some information, and then more information came along, and then it's natural to call the parties you make a law with, when this is part of that law, and say: Now we know this, and we're ready to move here. Well, let's have that discussion then. I have my calendar, so let us put a meeting in the calendar where we take that discussion and where the Minister can then explain what has happened. Because I also feel that I can count on the fact that we are about one million tonnes short, so I have a specific question: has a plan been made to reopen some of the agreements we have closed now to achieve precisely the 2025 target?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181651	I think so, sir. Tommy Ahlers can hear it himself. He says you need some information and that as soon as you get that information, you get it. That information is there, and Mr. Tommy Ahlers has also read the climate projection, and he also received a technical review of it. Sir. Tommy Ahlers has also read the farm play, and he has also had a lot of technical reviews of what was also, I think, a little criticism that there were too many of them so you can't really claim that you lack information. So what is the question is whether you want to join in saying: well, now we have about a million tonnes and perhaps a little more • we would like to agree to it setting that goal and thus commit ourselves to helping to find the roads there. Apparently, the Left won't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181727	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181732	Now the debate is turning to such a little more to be a climate debate, so I guess it's legal to move on in that direction. After all, the Minister himself mentions the initiative in the field of agriculture, where there is something about such a development path that is the most important. There's just a CO2 t on fat feeding of cattle. It is not, of course, because there are the large calculations behind the other figures, which are very large numbers. I would like to hear the Minister's reflection, in relation to if it does not become more concrete than it is now with the development trail. What does the Minister think the Climate Council will judge it for? We had, like, a schedule where there was something that we have achieved, something that can count completely and fully with. And then there was such a white field in the middle of the illustration, which did not really talk to, because it was something too airy, that the Climate Council only counted it in its inventory. Is there not a great risk that the government will end up in the same place if we do not make the development trail more concrete in the negotiations that are under way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181837	No, there is no risk of that, as long as we have already moved in that diagram. The chart starts with a technical potential, analysis, strategy, project, adopted policy, implementation. We are already in the process of making a proposal, so there is no risk of that. Having said that, it is clear that we have to agree to do this in a way, so we have some certainty that it will also lead to a result. But I also have to say that if you look at what the Climate Council says, it appears that they say that in the implementation trail it is what is about the things where we know the instruments and where we can just implement them now. a. Now we're already over 8 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. T, I think it is, so we are getting close to what the Climate Council says is what we can do in relation to the implementation trail. What does that mean? Yes, that means that we have to get to the development trail. It is not a choice that with whether to develop and scale up technologies. We have to do that, also according to the Climate Council, because there are not so many of these instruments left to be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181941	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511181942	If the exercise is only about finding 1 million. t, I already have a 1⁄2 million. Here. It is moving the ecology from the development trail to what is achievable. Because we can look into something where, through what we have decided with the Finance Act, and through the trend for ecology, it is realistic in that sense that we will double the ecology by 2030. And if things go too slowly, we can take some political initiatives. So that's where I can move 1⁄2 million. a. Can't the Minister just find the other 1⁄2 million? t? We're in the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511182012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511182013	No, we're not in the finish line. Well, that's only in relation to the 2025 target. Excuse me, but that was exactly why we had a little long, thorough discussion on that 2025 target. That's why we don't just pray for sex overnight. Because it was a little important that we all agreed that no matter how ambitious a 2025 target we set ourselves, it is of no use at all if we do not know how to move on to 2030 and even to 2050 thereafter, where we have to be climate neutral. In other words, the worst of all worlds and what we want to avoid is that we make some decisions to make reductions on the short track, which means that we block ourselves from making the right reductions on the long track. But I also agree that ecology is a great potential.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511182053	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place on Tuesday 18 May 2021, as mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511182150	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511182208	Thank you for that, President. I just had to make sure it was the real B proposal that I started talking about before someone stopped me in it. Today we are going to deal first with motion for a resolution B 232 tabled by the SF. And it is a motion for a resolution which concerns a voluntary labelling scheme which clarifies whether digital retouching or body changes have been applied to the people depicted. The resolution instructs the government to take the necessary initiatives to ensure that the necessary basis can be established for implementing and establishing such a voluntary labelling scheme. The reason for the proposal is that the proposers consider that a label should be created to draw children and young people's attention to the use of retouched photos. This can be done either by using the existing brand No retouch or by establishing a new brand. It is also clear from the proposal that it is the authors' hope that by establishing an official label for non-retouched images, a new trend can be created among companies which will set a positive agenda in this area. I think it is a very interesting proposal that has been put forward. I would say that I read it in such a way that it is not the wish of the proposers to create a ban mark or warning label, but rather a voluntary watermark or pointer in some way or other. And we, as a government, believe that the resolution deals with a very important and very relevant subject. We are also generally concerned about ensuring the well-being of children and young people on the Internet, and that is why the government has already started work to investigate how to better protect children and young people when using digital media. Two inter-ministerial working groups have been set up in connection with this work. One focuses on children's and young people's digital life and education and has to include: look at how we can concretely create more and better security for children and young people on digital media. In this context, the working party will, inter alia: consider possible measures to limit the exposure of children and young people to harmful content on the web. There are already rules in the Marketing Act to ensure that traders have good practice and that the marketing they use should not be misleading. It also follows from the Marketing Act that traders marketing themselves to children and young people must design their marketing in a way that takes into account the specific protection needs of this target group. Marketing aimed at children and young people is therefore subject to a more stringent assessment than when the marketing is directed at adults, and less must be done before the marketing law is considered to have been infringed. In this way, Retouched advertising may, according to the circumstances, be contrary to the requirements of the Marketing Act for good practice and the prohibition of guidance, and it will then be the Consumer Ombudsman who will have to decide whether retouched marketing is contrary to the rules of the Marketing Act. The government welcomes voluntary initiatives as a starting point, and the government also welcomes the fact that the Federation of Influents & Bloggers under the Danish Journalist Federation is also aware of the problem. As the motion for a resolution shows, it has drawn up ethical guidelines, including: it appears that one should draw attention to retouched images that change the proportions of the body if one has many followers who are under 24 years of age. As also mentioned in the proposal, there is already this brand No retouch, which is a non-profit brand that recognises photos and advertisements for not being digitally retouched. And it is also an opportunity to create a new brand if you as an industry want to go that way. The basis for setting up a voluntary labelling scheme is thus already in place, and it is therefore not a prerequisite for the government to establish a basis if the industry wants to set up such a scheme. And if, because of retouching, marketing is misleading or is directed at children and young people in a way that is contrary to the rules of the Marketing Act, the consumer ombudsman can intervene today, as I have said. So in this way I would like to say that we are very concerned about strengthening the well-being of our children and young people. This is true both when we talk about getting out of the hard corona period that we have been through now, but the more general when it is well-being on the web that is filling more and more for many children and young people. And that is why we would very much like to enter into dialogue with the parties behind the proposal, but also with the other parties of the Danish Parliament, on the possibility that in the further work of the committee here we can sign up to a report or something similar in order to find common ground on this agenda. The starting point is that there is, in this way, a basis for making the voluntary scheme. As such, it does not require the government to do anything special to create a basis if you want to go this way. But that is why there may well be other aspects of this agenda that we could share in pushing. At any rate, we are very much in agreement with the intentions underlying this, and we agree that children and young people should not be left alone with the pressure, it may be to see very perfect images of other children and young people, celebrities, influencers who use various filters and retouching. So although we cannot as such support the motion for a resolution because we do not believe that there is any basis, we would very much like to see whether we could possibly work on a report if there is an interest in it in the committee afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511182817	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511182821	Thank you for the floor. I can tell you that the creators of No retouch are sitting here in the Chamber in the audience, and I certainly do not think they feel that the basis is there for you to just start doing this. They are appealing to cooperate with them and that we like to put ourselves behind this proposal and give it some weight and some attention in relation to children and young people. So I just need to know if what the minister says when he says that we have to make a report.I think that is actually positive in itself is that it could be a report that establishes a basis for us to start making such a public mark in line with what we have, for example. The Ø mark, which emphasizes that there is something here without pesticides and which is a positive mark. Could it be part of the report, or is it a rejection of the very idea that the public is supposed to understand this task?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511182921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511182922	Now it may be that I have misunderstood it, but I understood it primarily that the resolution was about the government providing the basis for making a voluntary mark. But I may have misunderstood. In any case, it is our experience that, within the legal framework, a voluntary labelling system can be put in place. Then it may be that there are some other circumstances that make it difficult anyway. Or maybe we'll talk past each other in terms of the basis that should apply. My starting point has just been: is there something in the way that you can do that? Legally, at least there isn't. Then there may be other things, and we are completely open to discussing what it is, in order initially to learn more about each other. So it's clear that if we're gonna be able to control this now we're already in the middle of the conversation, we're gonna have to have some kind of control priority here. But that's not where we're going to start. I think we should start by finding out whether we agree on the problem. I think we are. Do we agree on what are missing? I do not think we are, because I have a little experience of talking past each other about whether the basis is there. I think we should start by agreeing on what is missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183032	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183034	That sounds really good, because then I still have a hope that we can move on this way. At least I think I am impressed by the fact that Norway, as a country with which we compare ourselves, is actually starting to do this. The City of Copenhagen has also investigated it in the past, but abandoned it because it would mean something to the economy in advertising contracts etc. It was simply too difficult to get started, and so it fell. So I actually believe that this is an agenda that is germinating out there, and I think it is a huge problem when we have children and young people who are so preoccupied with a ideal of perfection that they really cannot live up to. But I look forward to a committee work on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183118	So do I. In fact, I believe that it also filled a little today when the party leaders had a debate here in the Assembly on the whole question: do we have tech giants and social media as the megatrend, that is, sufficiently unifying and with a view to what kind of problems it can cause all the positive things that lie in it? Here I believe that, as a Parliament, we have a task at all in coming up with the joint analysis. One of the things that is my analysis is that well-being is a place we risk losing our children and young people if we do nothing. What model we have to choose to solve it, we have to discuss with each other, but we are open to doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183159	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no more brief comments. So now we are going to get to work with the rapporteurs, if the Minister would just get ready for his Socialist rapporteur. Maybe it's the same bubble. Here you go, sir. Malte Larsen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183229	Thank you very much. At home with us there are currently four teenagers at home, so the discussion here is quite present. My four teenagers are constantly bombarded with shine pictures and ideals, which can be very difficult to live up to. Of course, they handle this differently, even if they know very well that they are shining pictures, and that you may not have to try to live up to the pictures you see to the same extent. The authors of this report want to introduce a voluntary labelling system which, for example, allows advertising to point out that people in pictures are not retouched, that is to say their appearance is not manipulated. The label should cause fewer people to assume that manipulated images are unedited. The proposers want this done before the end of the year. I have the greatest understanding of how important it is to protect our children and young people from unnatural and misleading ideals of appearance and the like. We live in a digital age where especially young people are constantly exposed to edited versions of the truth. They do so both in advertising, but to a large extent also on social media, where bloggers and influencers exhibit a shine picture of their own lives. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the critical sense of precisely manipulated images should be a central part of the digital formation of youth. As an idea, a labelling system like this is also very good. As mentioned in the report, other labelling schemes have made good changes in other areas. The proposal contains many relevant considerations. We take note of that with interest. The issue of annotation of image manipulation is a good idea. Having said that, business is free to raise the bar in order to take account of the welfare of young people. So many thanks for the proposal and the good intentions behind it. This is a direction with which we very much sympathise. However, we do not support the proposal as it stands. However, as the Minister also mentioned, we are happy to discuss the proposal in committee and perhaps, as the Minister said, we can be able to land a joint report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183501	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183506	Thank you for a fine rapporteur's speech and also thank you for recognising the proposal. What I would like to ask is what the rapporteur says about the fact that business is free to lift the bar itself. Does the rapporteur think that there will be more people who want to lift the bar if we are, like, frontrunners on a brand than if the business community is just going to have to carry out this task on its own? In other words, would it be a good thing for us to put ourselves in front of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183541	At any rate, I am reasonably convinced that the signals we send from here are also being listened to by the business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183552	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183553	Well, that sounds really good, because I think that what we really need is to show our children and young people some positive body images of ordinary people, and I think we will do that the longest if we also establish a brand. But now we have to see what we can do together in a report. At least I have an optimism about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183614	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183620	Thank you. There are no further comments to the Social Democrat rapporteur. While it is being prepared, I can say that the next rapporteur is from the Left. This is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183644	Thank you for the floor and for focusing on the mental well-being of children and young people. It is certainly a social problem that children and young people experience having to live up to the unattainable because of digital retouching. That is why I am glad that there is attention in the debate and that I am allowed to discuss the subject today. I would like to start by saying that I think this is a very sympathetic proposal, which is behind some good intentions. It is clear that I am concerned that more children and young people are experiencing poorer mental health. We must, of course, do something about that. That is why I fundamentally agree that we, as a society, must support attention to the issue. Today we already have a regulatory law. According to the Marketing Act, traders may not use misleading or false images if they distort the consumer's behaviour. In addition, good marketing practices involving consideration for children and children, including their vulnerability, lack of critical sense and credulity, must be followed. We therefore welcome the establishment of a voluntary labelling scheme to support the existing law in this area. As the proposer is aware, there is already a non-profit brand that recognises photos and advertisements for not being digitally retouched. The Federation of Influenter & Bloggers is also aware of the issue of developing ethical guidelines. We also know that Children's Terms are aware of what can be done about the problem. We think it is very positive that voluntary initiatives note the well-being of children and young people, and we very much welcome this. Although the Left has sympathy for the purpose, we have doubts as to whether this motion for a resolution is entirely in the hands of the dial. That is why we want to discuss it in committee so that we can find a good solution together. Business should not be imposed on increased demands with artificial voluntaryness, but we still want to give them the opportunity to take the good initiative. That is why we want to find a solution that can accommodate all parties so that the voluntary labelling system is given more attention than is currently the case. That is why I also welcome the Minister's proposal, so that we can possibly land this motion for a resolution in a report in which most parties can see themselves. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Left would very much like to look at opportunities to help children and young people's mental well-being.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183924	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511183925	Thank you for another appreciative speech, and then we will see how far we can run it together in a report. What makes me stand up and ask a question is that the rapporteur says that the Left is not so much in favour of imposing demands on business. I don't see that we do that with this proposal either, because it's just voluntary. So does the Left not believe that it is within the dial, in relation to the fact that we are at least avoiding companies having to live with increased rules or additional costs, because it is precisely a voluntary brand?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184005	It's clear that we think there's a lot of good in this. That is also why the rapporteur hears me speak so positively about the motion for a resolution. We just want to make sure that the business community does not get any more burdens from the proposal, and we also need to be sure that this labelling system is precisely what we need to address. Are we going to have a control body? What exactly do we want? That's what we just want to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184035	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184036	Well, I'm sure we'll be able to discuss that. I perhaps miss a clarification of the burden which the Left believes this proposal could put on businesses, because it is not intended at all to be a compulsory mark such as the one introduced in, for example. Norway. This is actually a voluntary brand. So I think I might miss something a little more elaborate about the position of the Left in relation to it, i.e. what kind of dangers you see.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184109	Well, it is not certain that there are dangers to the rapporteur's motion for a resolution, but we will only be sure that there is not. That's just the one short thing. I understand that the Minister for Industry has already started work and we need to find a good way to support it so that we find a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184129	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184134	Thank you. I just cannot help following up on the issue that comes from the SF when it is that the rapporteur on the Left says this with a burden on business. I mean, I think that we have to take it seriously, basically, when we know what the consequences are, that is, the way images are manipulated and the retouching that is happening. This has consequences for children and young people in particular. The image in which they reflect is distorted. That is why I would just like to give the rapporteur of the Left an opportunity to reply that it is obviously more important for the Left than a possible burden that could be. Now, I know that the SF gave the opportunity for the Left to reply to whether these were really burdens, but even if it were the case that this was the case that the business community should actually undertake a task, wouldn't the Left think that it was worth it when it comes to our well-being and our well-being for children or young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184237	We in the Left are also very concerned about well-being and the well-being of children in particular. It is clear that this is also why I am standing up here and actually embracing this resolution, which I hope is what I am hearing. Therefore, it is also that we hope that we can find a really, very good solution. We just do not want more bureaucracy in Denmark and certainly not at a given time when business is having a hard time. So we just shouldn't go down the bureaucratic road. I don't think so either. Enhedslisten or anyone else. So we just need to land this in a really good solution that makes our children feel better. And we can all start with ourselves, if that's how we should start looking at our election posters or something, compared to what we run around doing every now and then.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184322	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184325	I can reveal that my election posters are not retouched, although sometimes you might want to, but it is with a glimpse in your eye that that comment came there. I would just like to ask again, and perhaps more precisely: if it would be a task for business that they had to promise, would the Left still be ready for business to take up a task if it were in the interests of the well-being of children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184355	After all, I cannot answer that question here on the floor, because what exactly does the rapporteur suddenly propose? Are we going to have a huge control effort? Is business now going to have a forced mark? Are we under duress? Because in the Left we are not ready for coercion. We're not too forced. We like Dove's commercials, where they celebrate the natural bodies and all that stuff. We love the way of volunteering, and we've seen how bloggers do a lot to support these initiatives. We welcome this, and we are very pleased about it, and we would like to find a way of supporting it. That is why I stand up here and am quite positive about this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184436	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Can I ask the rapporteur just to prepare for the next rapporteur? The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184511	Basically, the goal of being perfect must be to be imperfect. There is no perfection, and yet there are some who are trying to do so. That is one of the reasons why the SF has today chosen to table this motion for a resolution. This has certainly been done on the basis of a good approach to how we can enhance the well-being of young people in particular, but perhaps also from a slightly different approach forward towards this culture of perfection, which we have at least been developing here in Denmark over recent years, and where the media images and many new pop-up media are the ones that come suddenly and that very cheaply can provide graphical solutions and get into all sorts of places in the everyday life that both children and young people and older people experience. That's why it's also true that we have to look at how to make the experience better, I almost said, compared to not having this perfection culture. I think that, for example, is the case. is liberating to see Jane Fonda, who is 83 years old, still operating on l'Oréal's advertisements worldwide, all around the world. But I also know that she may well have not even led the knife I have been a few times on such a kind of self-paid change course of her body. It's another part of this culture, that people buy themselves for extensions of the perfect. You buy yourself something, so you get a little more self-esteem. The only question is whether it is the right medicine for the right people. I guess it's not. And I know very well that the SF is not wearing it as a separate part of this motion for a resolution, that is to say that it will take action against those who get liposuction and have the wrinkles removed, vupti, etc. But it's a little connected anyway, because it's part of that perfection culture. That is, when you experience that young girls want breast enlargements already in almost confirmation gift, yes, you can choose to laugh about it, but that is actually what you see in places. That is a sign that something is not very good. It is the thrivs to which we return, and at least the Danish People's Party wants to help address them. How we get it done in relation to this motion for a resolution, yes, of course I hope that, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, we can have a report in which we can illustrate what is actually a broad political desire here at Christiansborg. However, there is no desire for us to embark on some kind of detailed regulation in relation to legislation. In the Danish People's Party, at least as such, we cannot support the resolution itself. In fact, we believe that this presents a number of challenges, for example because we know that a great many of the advertisements in which young people reflect do not come from Danish media houses. They come from Twitter commercials or Facebook ads or on Instagram, or whatever. I don't know much about the latter, I'd like to say, at my age. But these are at least some of the places where advertising comes across national borders, and they come in a big light bulb. We in Denmark will find it very difficult to navigate it at all if we came up with a labelling system. Foreign media would not be interested in that at all. They'd still be gone. And, of course, we know that many of the broadcasting permits that exist in Denmark, at least in the case of television, also come from other countries where you may have different legislation. In any case, there will be a whole series of questions which we will also have to deal with, among other things. in relation to controls and, above all, sanctions in cases where they occur, where they are violated by deliberately tampering with images, etc. We need to start from a sensible report. The Danish People's Party would like to take part in this, but we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184935	Thank you, and there is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511184941	Can't the Danish People's Party see anything positive at all in that we feel the images that are not retouched so that children and young people can see quite clearly that these are some ordinary people and some who look like me, with all the defects that I now have, and which give them a sense of comfort that they are good enough as they are, and that this is actually what we can achieve with this labelling system? If we just said that all the images that are retouched should be labelled, we would not achieve the positive body consciousness or the battle with the ideal of perfection that this proposal contains, and in reality it is the case that many of the ads and influencers that children and young people are exposed to on Facebook and Instagram that Danish companies are advertising there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185040	That is true, but it is on foreign platforms that they put up something, I have to say. These are foreign platforms, and therefore it is very difficult to make rigid legislation on it. Now, the rapporteur himself mentioned Facebook and Instagram, and I know that Facebook has hired our former Prime Minister as a police officer, but that does not change the fact that it would be very difficult to navigate around in relation to where these media come from and what licences they operate from, and therefore it is not just as easy. I do not want to say that it is a quick fix that SF is out in with this motion for a resolution, but it is a little over there, because there are just so many questions still missing, purely practical questions that I think we have to deal with significantly before we embark on anything like what the SF is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185129	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185131	So, at the risk of accusing the rapporteur of not knowing how Danish companies advertise on Facebook and Instagram, I would say that they are the ones who make the advertisements. They do the commercials themselves. It may be on a foreign platform, but it does not have to stop them from using a positive, voluntary mark on the images they use in the advertisements there. Danish companies can take that responsibility, and we can easily get something out of it, despite the fact that it is happening on other foreign media platforms, because they are the ones who put their own photos up there. So, of course, you can do something with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185213	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185215	But many of these things are being worked out outside the Danish national borders. There are also a number of different websites, which you can go in to take photos from ▪ which are otherwise legal and all and which you can also use on Danish websites etc. Then I know that there are influencers and others who do such a little more personal advertising, etc., where they themselves make the pictures and everything else, but when you come up with the proposal here, it has to be able to embrace everything, and I just think with all due respect that the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF does not make it clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185252	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185314	Thank you for that and thank you very much for the proposal. After all, this is an incredibly complex and pervasive issue that pervades a great many aspects of our society. We are generally living in a culture of perfection, of which no one in this Chamber can refuse to be a part. We salute and we reward the beauty of our society. We do that at work, we do that in the media, and we do that between each other in relationships. Young people and children learn very, very early how to look and how to behave in order to be seen and heard and recognized and loved. Of course we have a problem there. When we see these very retouched images in the media, like the technology perhaps in particular over the past 15 years, since Photoshop entered the entire industry, we can see how there has been an extreme worship of some rather exaggerated beauty ideals. Of course, there is nothing we in the Radical Left would rather than go into that debate and try to help bring about a change. But I must also say that when I look around this Chamber and think of our other colleagues, perhaps just a few, who are under 20 years of age, it is perhaps also a group that will be judged a long way along the way as a bunch of boomers just coming and pointing the finger at young people and saying that they should put a mark on, for example. These influencer ads. I think, and I say that at my own expense, but I think there might also be a point in that when Sofie Linde with her huge instagram account with about 50,000 followers goes out and does something without makeup from her everyday life, where she just goes home on maternity leave, it has much more effect on young people and in the way they may see themselves, so that it gets a little more loving and they relax a little more and try to take out the big python button. So, as far as I am concerned, the thing about going in and setting up a labelling system is not something we have to do in this round. We had a similar discussion when we dealt with B 54 earlier this year, which the Minister will remember as well. It may not have been in this area, but I am not quite sure that it was enough in the area of children. But there we just landed a report that took care of it by pointing out that we would like to have this debate and that we would like to work for the well-being of children and young people on the Internet. It seems to me that this also has to be included in a report. The only question is whether a report moves so much, because it is so that it is there in a report, and then the industry operates in the same way as usual. But perhaps just when it comes to following the work of this working party, which will then make some recommendations, after a bunch of experts have been sitting there looking at how to actually deal with this problem, I think there is perhaps more to be done for us politically there than by setting up a labelling system. In fact, when we end up having to vote on this, we will probably end up voting yellow, and we will do just as much because we want to signal that this debate is important, and that it is so important that we move something and get the signal to the young people that we really want them and that we really want to help them. That is how the radical camp will stand, but again thank you very much for the proposal, and thank you very much for a very relevant debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185708	Thank you, and there is a brief comment to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185714	I would like to know whether the radical rapporteur does not think that it could be a little too random if it is the case that we should wait for icons like Sofie Linde to display everyday images of themselves. Wouldn't it be better to give children and young people a pointer instead, so that they can tell what to do about real models? In any case, I think that would make a decisive difference. I am deeply concerned when the young girls actually in 1,900 cases turn to the Children's Phone about body and appearance, and that very many of them say that what is the problem is the photo-shopping. In fact, I think we have an obligation to do something. And it is true that many other things can probably be done, but I do not hear that others are putting forward proposals as to what we should do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185810	I think that, if you are going to go down and work on something that actually works, then for example. should do as in Norway, where you make a command that it should be marked if anything is photoshopping, but then I think we should take it from there. There could be, for example. well stand the photo shop when you have a picture that is somehow manipulated. The problem is then just as soon as we hit Instagram, where young young influencers in perhaps 16-17 years fill their pictures with filters. So you're gonna tell them to follow these rules, too? You get into a grey area where the market really keeps finding ways for the consumer around this, because they operate with this basic need for beauty, which we are somehow now, for example, I am. art historian of education has celebrated ever since the Stone Age.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185856	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185858	Let me remind you now that the proposal is about advertising, not about children and young people who put filters on and experiment with it, we can see that a great many of them do. I just think it's gonna be a little too random for us to hope that Sofie Linde or anyone else like to be frontrunners in this debate. It's better with a mark. I do not know, it may well be that we are discussing the labelling system in Norway, but it is precisely a compulsory mark, which I have heard is not entirely supported in this Chamber. So you couldn't consider starting with this brand, which is a voluntary scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511185937	Yes, and there I am, like the Social Democrat rapporteur, that the industry is already completely free to introduce and, by the way, to extend this label, 'no retouch', which already exists. So for me, that's where it's supposed to start, and it's really a trend setter. I mean, when something becomes a trend and honesty becomes a trend, it's first it gets wind in the back, and there I just don't think what we do politically necessarily does. I would very much like to send the signal and help send it through a report. Let's put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190007	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Here you go to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190025	Thank you so much. I have been looking forward to this and thank you very much to the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting it forward, but also thank you very much for the huge work that has been done in advance of it. I don't think any of us have been able to avoid noticing that, and it actually matters. Now I was called boomer just now, although I am still in my twenties, but I would say that somehow this is also something that has had an impact on the way political work has been going on for me and for a lot of people who are active today. I remember being in Norway to do an activity, which was one of the first activities we did across borders. This is probably not the kind of activity I am going to do today, but we had some stickers like those on cigarette packs where we actually pointed out that pictures were retouched. I was actually surprised at how crazy some of those retouchings actually were. I remember that there were advertisements for a fashion brand, and if you actually took the time to stop and look at them, you couldn't even understand that you didn't see it when you biked or drove by. But it was so that the legs were simply a butt, and then some ribs were missing in relation to the waist, and the chest was then with breasts. That is to say, when you drive and just see it on the move, you see a lot of shapes and a lot of pictures that make it put some thoughts in your head that you want clothes like that too. The fact that a body is so twisted in this way helped to show me that retouching is not always just about the small details. Sometimes it is the case that an image is made quite basic and very unnatural about. After all, this is something in which many children and young people are mirrored and which, as many have said, has an impact on their well-being. They get a distorted picture of what is normal, what to look like, if you are to be known, if you are to be accepted, if you are to be well liked, if you are to be popular. Even well-known people have actually turned to fashion magazines and said: Hey, stop it! I don't want to get retouched like this. They have experienced that some ribs have just disappeared or that their legs have been made thinner. I would like to acknowledge this campaign to be positive, and I actually think it is a pity that no more people are embracing it 100 percent, because I would really like to be fresh enough on those labels which say how many young people, how many children, both boys and girls, who have eating disorders and who live with the consequences of the distorted picture today. But this is the positive way. Okay, let's go to a story. So let's do it, but I actually hope it will be something that is committed. We certainly support the resolution and then I hope that we will produce a report that is not just words but can actually help to improve this area. So thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190355	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190412	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution, for which I believe there are many good and relevant considerations. Personally, as a multi-annual board member of the creative industry, I have struggled a lot with advertisers and advertising being their responsibility: that you don't tell anyone that wrinkle cream vupti, vupti makes you look 10 years younger; that you not only use ultra-thin models, which even get rid of the absolutely last invisible layer of fat, or just that annoying bump that you have under your arm there between the bra and your arm, you know; that you don't remove any imaginable gegrowth, bump, redness or bias, so that young people don't reflect in shine pictures, that is, where the breasts are tall and the hair is shiny and the skin is soundless. It has helped to have that focus, and there are actually companies and media that have changed behavior. Dove, who has also been mentioned here earlier today, is one of the most famous, but they have also made it a virtue that it is precisely their brand that you have to be normal, and they have orange skin and freckles on their models. There are even artists and musicians who show delles and hair, so we can see that they are people and not just beautiful casings. Some of the very fun types that I really like to follow are e.g. Finnish artist Iiu Susiraja, I think they say so. She's the one who throws the broomstick under her breasts and makes other funny photos. It is also the Australian Celeste Barber who imitates model photos. They have a huge influence on the perfection culture and make it easier to laugh at ourselves and not take ourselves too seriously. On the other hand, the culture of perfection has also regained its strength. Influencers have become more skilled at staging themselves, and today we can all download a filter that seems to make us more beautiful. Makeup, light and a good photographer don't really do it anymore; it's obviously not enough. Politicians also know it from election posters and banners. It is tough diet to see yourself blown up in size, and I also recorded in connection with the last election that I was not the only one who, despite my advanced age, had unusually smooth skin on the posters. You can have a lot of opinions about that. Personally, I'm quite comfortable with a little glorified photos. In fact, I really want to be free of the press photos you take from below, or where you look the most tired and uncomfortable and that is of course said with a smile. Because when we go back to earnest, we must remember that we already have good legislation in this area. We have a marketing law that already says in section 1 that you must not cheat and you must not mislead. Good marketing practice is actually a very good guide. At the same time, there is no doubt that many companies will make a virtue in the future out of authenticity and transparency and hardly go quietly about it. They're gonna brag about it, because there's plenty of profile in going against the current. And even now there is also a labelling system that can be used if you want to clarify what you stand for. Conservatives therefore do not believe that a new labelling system will actually make the big difference here. That is why we cannot support the proposal, although we like and sympathise with the intentions and recognise the issue. At the same time, I must remember to say 'and I do not know whether to say this now', that I shall greet the KD and say 'they will also vote against'.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190719	Thank you so much. There is one brief comment, and that is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190723	I just want to know if it makes no impression at all on the Conservative rapporteur that so many children and young people are calling in to the Children's Phone on the basis of concerns about body and appearance, and a lot of them indicate that they are experiencing this pressure that comes from photoshopping ads. Couldn't it be a very, very nice way to draw attention to what can one say, the normal thing, that you feel some things, so we get a positive body consciousness and say: Here are some ordinary people that we can mirror ourselves in • some that look like you and me?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190805	But I do not believe that it is a labelling system that will make a difference. It's the kind of women my age who think it means a lot. I don't think it's going to make a big difference to young people. On the other hand, it can make a big difference that young people see other people, are in the swimming pool, are at football, are discussing it in their family, that you surround yourself with some friends and acquaintances where you actually have this dialogue. There are a lot of other things that need to be done. However, it is not going to change anything whether or not a voluntary labelling scheme is being put on the table. We simply do not believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190837	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190840	I think we are simply overlooking the fact that the language that children and young people have with each other today is pictures. Those are many pictures, and they are many more pictures than when Mrs Mona Juul and I were children and young people. So we've had time to get used to the fact that there can, what can be said, be tinkered with the pictures. I just think a lot of kids and kids can't figure that out. That is why it is a challenge, and that is why I think that a labelling system could actually be what could serve as a kind of pointer for these children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190913	I think that once you get used to such labelling schemes, life goes on. Unfortunately, I think we should have confidence that young people actually know that things are photoshopping. It doesn't make them less insecure to know. There are other things at stake here that we cannot solve by putting an extra label on an ad, unfortunately. There are other things that need to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190935	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511190949	Thank you. Where I come from, we have such a saying that you can't make oak furniture out of chipboards. In the present, it's just before you can. We recognize that you can go a long way about it. I feel the same way about this proposal that if the industry thinks it's fine, then they should just get started. This is not something that we politicians should interfere with. And if the industry thinks they can see a purpose in making such a scheme there are a lot of such schemes... then it may be that there are some companies that think that it can actually be a promotion tool, that is, a marketing tool that they can use to make themselves visible out there compared to others. I think that is quite fine. But to go from there to that is something that we should start to think in here that we can shield the young people from that is a bit of what I think lies in it too. I think basically is a wrong approach. Well, we're not gonna shield the kids, because I don't think anything good's gonna come out of that. And there I think there is a task for both the parents and the school and for society as a whole in order to enable the children to look at it here and be able to relate to it. Then perhaps I also think that you will see as you also see in some places some of these counterwaves that are for it when it all gets a little too artificial. Some people wear makeup. I guess that's some way to hide your true self. It's a covert thing where you try to make yourself nicer. And you get your hair cut and all sorts of different things. Some people use pushup bra or something else to make it look a little better. Is that fake, too? Sometimes, when you go out on the first date, you may try to hide all your bad points and try to present yourself a little more sympathetic and appealing than you really are. There are a lot of things, and I think that we are doing ourselves a disservice if we try to protect the young people from all that, in other words to shield them from reality. You can't, because reality is out there. But to navigate and teach them that I think is a worthy task, both for parents and also for the community. So it has to be the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511191209	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511191211	There is no doubt that we must teach children and young people how to navigate it, and that is where I see the benefit of a labelling system, because it can actually be used to navigate it. However, I just wanted to know whether the rapporteur thinks that we should also abolish the 'E' mark, the 'Swan' mark, the 'Keyhole' mark. In principle, it could have just been said that companies can get to grips with this. Should we abolish these marks?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511191240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511191241	I have not just taken a position on each brand, but basically, if there are too many brands which the Folketing imposes on the companies, I do not think that one should do so. So if there are any of them that the industries out there have a lot of objections to, then I think we should talk about whether they should remove them. But I do not think that we should impose something on them from a political point of view, and I have not yet seen one of the steps taken in here by Christiansborg, which is imposed on the business community, which will not end up costing any money. So, somehow it ends up giving a bill to taxpayers, and neither are we in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511191315	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511191317	No, but the point of the labels I mentioned earlier is that we have given them to guide consumers, and this is precisely where we are talking about a voluntary label. So I really think that the rapporteur's concerns are completely unfounded. It's a voluntary mark that you can use. We just need someone, namely us, to put us in the front line to create it and spread it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511191341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511191343	Well, basically, I think I have a different view of what is then voluntary. When something comes in here from the Folketing, the business community feels pressure to do so. It may well be that it is spoken as voluntary, but the business community out there also knows that the next step, if they do not introduce it voluntarily, is that there will be a coercion around it. This is what we have seen in history. You go down and say, yes, we recommend, and we just advise, we hope that you will, and if they don't, the other thing comes, and then it becomes coercion. And we simply do not want to go down that path. But if the business out there thinks it's a good idea, then more power for them, then they just have to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511191414	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511191427	Children and young people and people in general need to learn to relate to the world in which they are, and this includes both the fact that you can actually look up to what other people do and endeavor to try to become just as capable, but it also means that you have to recognise with yourself that there you cannot stay there, either because you simply cannot do it, or because what you see and experience is a picture that no normal human being can live up to. There is no doubt whatsoever that it is also challenged by the advertising industry and that the advertising industry uses very much retouched images, just as we others do to some extent, because the way we present ourselves is not necessarily the right thing to do. I can tell you that I don't wear a jacket and a tie at home every day, I don't. But I really like to do it when I stand on the platform, because I think that you then signal a seriousness about things. But I find it difficult that we take one thing out where people decorate themselves here via digital means and in certain industries and say that it is a separate problem and that we saw in all the other cases where you do it, just like leaving it alone. We should cover it all by teaching our children the best way to do it, so that they can both handle one thing and the other, and it's a little strange to me that we have to care so much about whether things are retouched in a computer when every day, including in this room, we see things getting retouched before people get to the camera. Well, there is a relatively small proportion of the female members of parliament who have gray hair, I have noticed, and it's still wild that having gray hair is mostly something that hits the male members of parliament. But it could be that it is because in our ideals we do not care so much whether men have gray hair or not, while women care more about whether they have gray hair or not, and that is something to be welcomed. There's also all that stuff about lying under the knife. Now it's said that on a computer you remove a rib so you get extra thin. Well, you also hear about some people getting ribs removed in real life. So are they the ones that are about to be models because, like, you can't cut into the computer and you have to cut into reality? Then it may be that there is a little more filling in the breasts on the computer, but if the alternative is that the models have to lie under the knife to get more filling in the breasts, is that better? And why isn't that a problem? So let's teach our children that they must commit themselves in this, instead of believing that the sacred grave is well preserved, if we take one small corner out of it to beautify life and then say that something needs to be done about it. I also think that, if there are any NGO initiatives or any other voluntary initiatives in which we try to deal with this in one way or another, we are very welcome to do so, and I am sure I will also applaud it. This is the field of the thousand flowers; what is best can be allowed to work, and everyone can do what they want. But if we make one centralized model from in here, it may be able to set foot for all the other ways of doing it, because that is the way we have done it, which is now the authoritative one. So I do not think we are getting anything out of this, and that is why we are voting against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511191852	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we can go to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511191911	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate. There have been many such diverse views in it. It can be said that the disadvantage of asking the business rapporteurs about something that really really is very much about children and young people is that with the companies and the business perspective it is going to fill well well. I regret perhaps a little bit that this is not in the circle of child rapporteurs, because then I think perhaps the debate would have been a little different. Most people who have children or young people in their homes know that children's lives are very much online and that pictures are their language. We need to understand and recognise this as adults, and it is just highly unregulated. There is a minimal degree of enforcement in relation to what children are exposed to by advertising from companies and influencers on the social media they are moving on. It is very much and many times advertising which does not represent reality but which is retouched. At any rate, I find it deeply worrying when the Children's Phone receives so many calls, which are about body and appearance, from children and young people. It is especially girls who experience that they are under pressure to be perfect, and some of what they indicate as the problem are these photo-shopping images that give them that pressure. When you are 12-14 years old, you just haven't developed the critical sense to distinguish between beautised models with perfect proportions and the more average body, and that has a consequence. One can read in the report from the Children's Terms of Last year that 38 per cent. of all girls in the 9th grade simply work to beautify their images on social media. Imagine if we could make a counter-trend for that. In Norway, they have legislation on the way. A proposal was presented here in mid-April to make it possible to label retouched campaigns. By the way, it is a model that Children's Terms have also recommended. In fact, in the City of Copenhagen you have also had a look at it because you have advertisements on bus pedestals, but you gave it up because you had concluded some contracts in terms of advertising, which meant that it would cause problems, i.e. because they had already been concluded. It would cost a lot of money if you suddenly had to change those contracts and that's why you gave it up. But I think that both things show that there is an awareness of this, both at home and abroad, and I think that Denmark has a very proud tradition of taking the child protection perspective seriously, and I really think we should do that here too. The marketing law already states that children and young people must be taken into account in their natural credulity and lack of experience and critical sense, which makes them easy to influence and easy to influence, and I think this proposal is in fact a good continuation of precisely that objective. When children and young people are so preoccupied with a perfection ideal, I think we should show them that people are not always beautifying versions that have been made thinner, have got smooth skin or have had longer legs or narrower cheekbones. I do not think they should feel bad about not being able to live up to the ideals, and it is against this background that we really want to show them ordinary people, create a positive story and show some of what we want more of. Because if we just make a model where we feel what is retouched, we just don't get the body positivity and the consciousness about what lies in highlighting real people and that can break with this ideal of perfection. And that is actually one of the same things we do in connection with the "E" label, where we highlight what has not been sprayed. This makes it easy for consumers to navigate, and with our proposal it was the idea that companies could just as easily brand themselves taking that responsibility. We can see that some have begun to do so. Everything for the ladies is for example. Begin on it. And I do not want to reject what the Radical Left is proposing, namely that at some point it should be compulsory to label what is retouched, but I also know that if that is where we start, there will be some who are shouting bureaucracy and new rules and asking what it costs companies, so that is why the idea from us was that this should be based on voluntaryness. I think it is positive that we might be able to land a report. I look forward to that work. I have also listened that it might be a little difficult to get together on something. At least it's in a lot of directions here. The Minister mentions the committees in the field of children who are currently looking at how we can make more digital child protection. I know this is not part of what they are looking at, and I do not think we can expect a solution to be found there. I understand that the Danish People's Party is not very enthusiastic about this, but perhaps I missed the rapporteur's suggestion of what to do to help the children. I certainly believe that it is easy to do something, even if they are tech giants, because it is Danish companies that target their advertising against Danish children and young people or people who are older. They put their own pictures on, so of course you will be able to apply a voluntary label to exactly those photos if you want it as a business. It has nothing to do with the fact that it is a tech giant that has its head office in another country. The industry can just get started, says New Citizens. We have mentioned it and have reversed it, and in principle they could also do so in connection with the keyhole mark, the Ø mark and the Swan mark. After all, these are all marks that we are very happy about today and that help to set a direction and make it easier for us as consumers to navigate the market, and I do not necessarily hear that somebody is thinking that we should abolish those marks tomorrow. I would like to thank you for the debate. I can tell that this may be a debate that needs to mature a little, and it may be that we are going to take it back with each other. Time will tell. But I look forward to the work of the committee and thank you for the many remarks and speeches.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511192605	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511192610	Thank you. I do not understand the rapporteur's dissatisfaction with the business rapporteurs who are. We're friendly and good people. For my part, I can say that at the same time I have 20 years' experience of working with young people, and that is precisely why I have the position I have. For that experience shows me that the thing about protecting young people and making them not have to think critically themselves, and not teaching them, is not the right approach. It makes them worse to navigate the world if you go that way. For us, it is also a little bit about: what is the role of parents in this? It's kind of something about how you can make this stamp, and then you're a public school education institution and as parents you don't have to take that responsibility on yourself. Then you are free to take on the training task that actually lies there. That's what we're afraid of when you go this way. So on the point of ripening the debate, I would say: no, we actually have this position here because we believe that this is the wrong way to go. But I would like to ask the rapporteur: does it really mean that in the perfect world it should be made compulsory? Now this proposal is about voluntaryness, I know that, but if the SF and the rapporteur could decide for themselves, would they actually make it compulsory?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511192719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511192720	But if we had thought it was compulsory, we would have put it forward as a proposal for a compulsory system. In fact, we believe that there is something positive about children and young people getting something they can navigate after we highlight some of what we would like more from companies using the opportunity to fire and say: we are doing what you want with this proposal. Perhaps I have a different opinion from the questioner. I don't think we should take away the opportunity for parents to form their children and talk to them about this. I see this mark as a supplement to the work. It's two things that have to go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511192801	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511192803	But should it also apply to private people who post something on Instagram? Is that to be the case there? And now this is about retouching, but what if shadows and contrasts are changed in an image? It is also a manipulation of reality that you can beautify a lot of things by changing colors and shadows. And is it also according to the rapporteur's position that retouching should be labelled if you change shadows and contrasts and everything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511192831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511192833	I hope the questioner has read the proposal because it concerns advertising. So it is clearly not something that deals with private services, yes, it can of course do that if it is influencers, but then we are again over in the commercial area where we already have arrangements for it to be marked as advertising. What our proposal aims at is retouching, and that really means that it is after-treatment of the image, where you cheat on weight, you can say, and make people thinner, give them leaner cheekbones, or whatever it may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511192909	Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511192911	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I do not think it was the case that all the business rapporteurs swept it off this board for the sake of the burden on business; I did not listen to that. At least that's not how it was from here. My arguments are, of course, that there is Who is responsible, and what are other options that might be able to resolve matters more effectively? But my question is this: can the voluntary label that already exists not be used?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511192954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511192955	Well, what the owner of the voluntary label has said is that she would like to make it available to us if it is that we want to use it in a labelling system. But it will probably not get the same validity if we do not put some force behind it and do something to check whether those who now use it voluntarily also use it correctly. So I think it takes more, and I actually think the owner behind the label wants some action to be put on it. When I said this with the children's rapporteurs, it is because the children's rapporteurs are typically much more willing to act than the business rapporteurs, who think very much about business policy and businesses and so on. But that is the way things are now; one cannot always choose where one's motion for a resolution is being dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193052	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193053	No, you cannot, but fortunately we are all people and have different rapporteurs, and I listened that this resolution was taken down very positively, but that was not exactly the solution. I would just like to make a comment on the fact that the labelling that already exists can be used. Every company is free to write or make itself noticed or brand itself that exactly they have chosen that their adverts or their way of communicating should be that and that way, and I think we are simply going to see that in a larger and larger way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193129	I also think the rapporteur knows that if we are politically behind a label, it has a different weight and value, and it will be something that companies will be more oriented towards. That is also why we are behind all sorts of other brands, because we want to highlight something positive, such as. The Ø mark, which is just about showing that here is something that has not been sprayed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193152	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193155	As a man, it is such a rather strange debate to be in, because if anyone is exposed to unrealistic idols and role models, then it is young boys. It's Superman, and it's Spider, and it's Arnold Schwarzenegger and some. These are role models that are stopped for boys, and they are hard to live up to, that is to say. However, I would like to ask Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt if there is anything to gain from the fact that it is like knocking down on photoshopping photos if the female models are instead placed in their lips and in their breasts and in their buttocks. Is there anything to be gained by just like closing that path by doing it digitally, in return for saying that the only way to do it is to put yourself under a surgical knife?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193258	I do not believe that it can be equated with that development, because what this scheme is supposed to bring about is that we have created some positiveness about the way we look so that we can all reflect ourselves in it. There will be no need to lie under the knife at all, because one would prefer what is common.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193317	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193319	Yeah, but listen, Pamela Anderson can live up to this brand. She's not necessarily retouched, but we all know that she's filled with all sorts of artificial things to look like she looks. So what is gained by girls being presented with shine pictures that have not been retouched via computer, but which have been retouched by the surgeons and which can therefore live up to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt's quality mark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193356	The point is that today you don't have to lie under the knife at all. It is not necessary because you can just retouch it all, and that is what you do, and I think there is a problem when children and young people's world consists of pictures and massively many more pictures than when I was a child myself. It just makes it a lot harder to navigate, and I would argue that there are also many people my age who may get harder and harder to navigate in this digital world, among other things. And also because we get deepfakes. We simply can no longer trust what we see, and therefore a labelling system that can be trusted that the image is not photoshoped will be something that children and young people could navigate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193435	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193438	Thank you, sir. President. I was just briefly aware that the rapporteur, in her reply to Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservatives, referred to something about which I heard the word 'control' being mentioned at least that control could not be ruled out. At any rate, I am very interested in knowing what kind of control it is that SF would like. What's it gonna cost? What should the sanctions be? In other words, someone must also impose sanctions if, in the context of a check, someone is caught in having violated them. How did the SF come up with that part of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193516	We have just not determined how such controls are to be carried out, but it does not make sense to have a label that is not somehow supervised when applied. The idea is, of course, that it should be about the images being genuine, and that is why you have to have perhaps some kind of control body, we have not determined how, but it is also with the Ø label and with all sorts of other brands. There you have to look to some extent at how it then works.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193548	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193549	The rapporteur is, of course, right on this last point. I am not saying that such a list should be provided for everything, but I think that when you come up with a motion for a resolution you could give an indication of what you are imagining, for example. the cost of money, the type of controller, where the task might lie, and the type of sanctioning that could then be issued to the influencers who are criminals. It is of course not insignificant when you are discussing a new law that you want to impose on the government that you also have a little control over the other part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193625	No, but the lucky thing is that if the Danish People's Party supported this and was involved in a report work, you got an influence on what it should look like, because we have just not taken a position on that, so we are very open to discussing if the Danish People's Party is ready to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193638	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193653	The debate is open. We give the floor to the Minister for Industry first.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511193716	Thank you so much. The motion for a resolution we are debating here has been tabled by the SF, and it is about the introduction by law of a Advertising Yes Thanks scheme. Such a system would mean that only citizens actively indicate that they want to receive printed advertising, i.e. advertising. shipments without an address that have them distributed to their mailboxes. The proposers have among other things: Reference to the agreement, which is called the Climate Plan for a green waste sector and circular economy, which was concluded between the government and a majority of Parliament's parties in June last year. In connection with that agreement, the government promised to re-examine the possibility of introducing a Advertising Yes Thank you scheme in Denmark, and so I should just like to inform you here today that the government is still in dialogue with the European Commission in order to clarify a number of legal issues in relation to the EU legal framework for such a proposal. We in the Ministry of Business and Industry have held meetings with the European Commission to discuss the possibility of introducing a Yes Thanks scheme in accordance with EU law and, unfortunately, the final conclusion of the dialogue that has been there is not yet available. In relation to the very background to the decision-making basis, the authors of the motion for a resolution point out, among other things: on the possible environmental gains that may be by introducing a Yes Tak scheme. To this I would like to say that we fully acknowledge this in the government, in other words that there may be environmental gains by introducing a Yes Thanks scheme, and that is also why we discussed such a scheme in the context of exactly the climate plan for the waste sector that I mentioned earlier. It can be said that the precise environmental effects are still subject to a certain degree of uncertainty. I say this because in a report from 2018, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency estimated that two years earlier, in 2016, approximately 113,000 tonnes of addressless shipments were redistributed in Denmark, while those called GRAKOM, in connection with the resolution here, have submitted figures indicating that the amount of offer papers in 2020 was about half the figures that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency had come up with. So there is a discussion about the extent which has not yet been fully drilled. But, of course, there is a reduction in paper advertising associated with a positive environmental impact in relation to the amounts of paper waste from advertisements that would otherwise be collected for waste management purposes. The final environmental impact of a Yes Thanks scheme is, of course, dependent on how the scheme is received by citizens. It goes without saying that one thing is to make a scheme, another is how many people subscribe to it and get into it. Having said all that, and there is reason to dwell on that, and it is also one of the cornerstones of the proposers, I can read out, there are also some drawbacks, and I think that is also part of a debate today, by introducing a Yes Thanks system. For example: is the possibility of being able to distribute these so-called addressless shipments really important for association magazines, for local newspapers, and therefore it can have consequences for local communities and association life in Denmark if a Yes Thanks scheme is introduced. In addition, a Yes Tak scheme will have derived negative effects on e.g. printing works, distributors, distributors and local news editors, which include: After all, jobs and important contributions to local communities are at stake. I also think it is important to take into account the fact that today we really do have a fairly well-functioning No Thanks scheme and what is called a No Tak+ scheme in Denmark, which is a more flexible arrangement for those who would just like to receive selected advertisements and catalogues in the mailbox. As has already been said, the climate agreement on the green waste sector agreed that the government would re-call the parties to the agreement when the final conclusion of the dialogue with the European Commission, to which I referred, is available, and the parties to the agreement are then convened to discuss within the contracting circle whether there is a basis for introducing a Yes-Tak system. In other words, in the contract circle we will have to discuss possible benefits for the environment by introducing a Yes Thank you scheme, so that we can offset the disadvantages which the scheme may also entail and which I have tried to explain a little. As I have said, there is still no final clarification of the facts surrounding such a proposal here in relation to EU law, which is why it is too early for the government to adopt a completely unambiguous line in relation to what B 262 is proposing, and so we are looking forward to continuing the discussion on this subject with the group of agreements which will be convened, as I have said, and so today the government cannot support the legislative proposal before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194250	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194255	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. There is no doubt that there is a huge waste of paper here. Whether you listen to GRAKOM or listen to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, it is crazy amounts of advertising that are distributed every year in Denmark. That's why I think it's important to get to grips with this. I understand from the Minister that reference is made to the work that is being done in the European Union, which has been referred to for a year now. But I would really like to hear what the government's position on this is in principle. Does the government have a desire to change the legislation and make a yes-than-you regime if you can for the EU? That is, in fact, what is relevant to discuss today. So, do you think it would be sensible to turn the system upside down?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194342	I would like to start by saying that I very much agree that it is important to take the debate and it has been going on for a long time. I now believe that the European Commission, and indeed us at home, have been laid down by corona management, so I hope that there is some understanding that exactly the year that is being pointed out may have been other things on the plate in the various contexts. Well, well, I think it's dilemma-filled to be completely honest. I can easily see the paper argument, and I can easily see the environmental argument. So I can also see an argument in relation to an association life and some local communities which have access to some opportunities: local newspapers, association magazines, jobs, etc. I think that is a dilemma, and I would like to have the opportunity to discuss this further, including with the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194436	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194438	Thank you. I think we have had many opportunities to discuss it, and we are doing so now too. I hope that the government will soon have a slightly clearer line on what it means here. I have to say something about local associations and things like that. Well, if some local scouts want to hand out a little magazine about their activities, they can still get away with it in the context of this. But I would really like to hear the Minister, because he says that Advertising No The Tak scheme is working well, whether he believes that the scheme is working well if thousands of Danes receive advertisements, even if they do not really want to, just because they have not signed up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194514	I think it is well-functioning in the sense that it can at least some of what a 'yes' system could do in principle, namely sort out some advertisements. Then we can always discuss whether it is being used sufficiently, in other words it is being used and widely used, and I think that could be something that could be taken into account in such discussions as we shall then have in the circle of agreements once the dialogue with the Commission has been completed. Because there are also opportunities to achieve a greater degree of dissemination on the No Tak+ scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194554	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194559	I think it's a little funny that the minister is talking about local newspapers and so on. Because it doesn't have to be part of this. On the contrary, it could be said that there would be a thriving market for local newspapers in relation to advertisers who are not today because they are making their own advertisements. Well, if we put it aside, we can talk about this dialogue with the Commission. Whether there is corona or not corona is a long time after all, and the Commission usually responds very quickly. So I am really just curious about when that dialogue has been started with the Commission and when answers are expected. Because I think that one year with corona is also a long time, compared to how I know the Commission's normal response times, which are very fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194637	If there are people from the Commission listening, I can only confirm that we have had a good dialogue with the Commission, and especially here under Corona, in relation to a very, very effective treatment of aid packages, etc. What I am told is that the expectation is that, after all, we will not have to wait so much longer and that we can have a conclusion on the dialogue with the European Commission on this side of the summer break. So this is not something that is so many months ahead. But all that is, of course, with all the reservations that are always about such a thing. So that is the expectation, and it does so that we can initiate the discussion that must be in the circle of agreements once this dialogue with the Commission has been completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194722	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194724	Well, that's good. It is just so rare that I have heard that the Commission should take so long on this. But if you've really contacted them a year ago, and it's gonna take a year, it's gonna have to be hard stuff. But I would like to ask you about the local newspaper thing again, which is also something we are very concerned about at the moment. We're worried about these media deserts. And if you look at it from a slightly different angle than just from the caring agenda, as I hear the Minister does, this proposal will not be able to create a platform for a flourish for local newspapers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194753	The agenda! I can see where the rapporteur is going to say: let us play that the advertisements were gone and then the adverts moved into the pages of the local newspaper and thus also ad crowns and revenues. I'm just asking the open question, is that what's gonna happen? Will that transformation take place out there? I am concerned about local newspapers because I know that the contribution of local newspapers to many communities is huge, even though the articles may not be megalongs etc. And I think there is a real problem with local newspapers. I am also listening to the fact that there are concerns from the Joint Council of Rural Regions and others in relation to this agenda. So I don't think you can just sweep it off and say: let's just try, and then we hope that local newspapers will be filled with exciting ads and thus survive. I think this requires an independent and thorough analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194847	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194849	Thank you. I am a little surprised that the Minister was so long in spitting in his ministerial speech in relation to saying yes or no to this motion for a resolution. The conclusion was: we do not know, the Minister said, and we are waiting for some dialogue meetings with the European Commission. Why can't the government say if they're for the model we have today, called No Thanks model and No Tak+ model, or if you'd rather put your claim on there being an option model? Other countries have actually looked to Denmark to get inspiration from the model we have, where we take care of both those who do not want these printed advertisements and printed matter etc. Why can the government not have an opinion on this without them having to ask in Brussels?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511194945	On the one hand, I thought my conclusion was quite clear: we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here, and on the other hand there is a renewed dialogue with the European Commission, which, as it were, is based on a political agreement in which it has been agreed that the government should do so, so of course we will do so when we enter into agreements on it. And then I also think it is quite sincere that it is a very difficult area. I can easily see that No Thank you and No Thank you+ can do a lot of good things. Then there are some who will say: but it is not doing so today. So that's where we have a challenge. Is that the answer, then, to make the No Tak+ scheme more widespread, or should an actual Yes Tak scheme be introduced? I think we have a dilemma in which we should weigh up some green wishes that we would also like to meet, in view of the fact that there are some local concerns primarily, I think, around the country of origin, which makes me unable to say today that it is just the happiness of a Yes Thanks scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195048	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195050	I hope, then, that the Minister for Business is aware that around 90% of the population is in the region. of all the printed matter that comes out actually ends up in a recording system and is recycled seven to ten times. So I think that environmental debate also reaches absurd heights here in the Danish Parliament on Tuesday evening, because it is not such a major environmental agenda that we should at least not raise it in relation to this in concrete terms. There, in fact, we in Denmark have just proved that we are able to make a good use of the resources we use. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195129	You can always discuss it, and there is also a discussion that lives on this whole issue of paper. What kind of paper is that? How many times can it be reused? What are the original components of this? Can it be made greener, the paper? However, I do not think we get around it, regardless of how we turn around and how it is that there is a paper waste issue here. As I tried to reproduce, the Danish EPA back in 2018, estimated that it was 113 t addressless shipments, while GRACOM recently said it was half of it. Whatever figure is right, there is an environmental issue here, and I do not think we should neglect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195215	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195218	The reason why I am standing up is because I understand from the Minister that the Commission's response is on the right track. Then the Minister is going to decide on the dilemma that the Minister is facing, i.e. whether it is yes or no, or what it is. That is why I have some doubts. Now the Minister calls it a dilemma where the Minister and I come from, we call it the mischievous. Why so disgusting? Can't we hear anything more about whether it's yes or no please?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195255	I always admire political colleagues who are thus able to boil down a dilemma to a quick decision. I think this is a dilemma. I really think so, and then you can believe it or not. I think this is a dilemma, because on the one hand I can see that there is an environmental potential here. I see there's a lot of paper. I can see that there are a lot of people in the larger cities, I think, who would like to be free of those advertisements. On the other hand, however, I can also see a large part of our country around us, where we ourselves come from, as the rapporteur says, she and I, where advertising is another issue and where it fills more and where it also supports some local activities that are good for our communities. So I don't think it's so easy just to say: let's have a scheme like this here. And now that we are engaged in a dialogue with the European Commission, let us have it completed, because then we will have an answer to our relationship with EU law, and then we will at least be a step further before we can reach our conclusion on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195405	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195407	Yes Thank you will limit the competition. Yes Thank you will hit local shops and rural areas. Yes Thank you will threaten more local newspapers. Yes, the Tak scheme will mean the loss of more jobs. Nevertheless, the Minister will not take a position. The Minister nevertheless hopes that it is only the Commission that can take a position on behalf of the Minister, and then the Minister will not be able to take a position here. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195431	No, because I was very clear about the government rejecting this resolution and not voting for it. But it is glorious if the Left has adopted such a position. I think there are some sincere dilemmas here which I think the Left will overlook if one only looks at one side of the argument and reads up as the rapporteur does here. There are also questions about our environment and our climate, which live in these many, many tons of paper that are not dealt with by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195508	Then it's Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195512	Thank you very much. I am a retailer myself and use both local newspapers and distributions that we send out. If you said that you said yes to a Yes Thank you scheme, does the Minister think that there will be fewer advertisements and that foreign webshops will get bigger and more wind in the sails?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195539	I am quite sure that fewer advertisements will be sent out. Whether you can bring the end to the end and thus also conclude what will happen in relation to webshops and international webshops, I dare not put my head on the block about here. However, I am sure that there will be fewer paper advertising in circulation, and that is why I also say that I think there is a concern that weighs heavily, also for the government, in relation to local traders, local newspapers, local communities, printing works and jobs on this agenda. Now I understand that it is very easy for some to take a very clear position in this matter, but I can't help thinking: what if there was a way through this, where you could make the advertising distribution greener, that is, where you could achieve some of the beneficial benefits that are for many communities, but do it in a more sustainable way and have higher green standards and requirements? It could be that there was actually a third way through this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195643	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195646	Yeah, it could be that did it. I know it's FK Distribution that stands for most of this. Where I come from and I'm sure it's the same up where the minister comes from... it's the young people, girls or boys around the age of 13 who are dragging around on a wagon. It can hardly be a more green distribution, at least in the vicinity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195715	That's right. If you zoom in on the mode of transport alone, I'm not sure it can be much greener. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on that. But that's why it might be that there were conditions around the paper or the printing ink, or what do I know about the distribution to these young people who wear the drawcars. After all, it is not the case that these weekly newspapers are printed on every corner of the street. I'm just trying to address here, that it might well be that you could achieve the benefits you want environmentally without having to take the negative consequences you're going to have, out around society. That is why we think it deserves a more thorough debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195751	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister and then we move on to the rapporteur's line. First of all, it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511195816	Thank you for the floor, President. The proposers want to introduce a system whereby instead of being able to say no to advertisements, i.e. physical offer papers, they must say yes to them, so that fewer advertisements will be distributed. The scheme must be amended in order to reduce the environmental impact. In the Social Democratic Party we are also concerned with the agendas that the authors of the motion for a resolution mention in their presentation. In Denmark we absolutely must spare the environment and climate where we can do so responsibly. And, of course, we also need to reduce waste where we can. This is an important part of our own green transition, and it is an important part of being a green pioneer country. As with other aspects of climate and environmental change, it is important that measures are taken in the right way and that, at the same time, attention is paid to the consequences of the changes that are being made. In this case, it is essential to consider that the distribution of offer newspapers also includes a large number of journalistic free newspapers. In many areas of the country, these newspapers represent the most local journalism available and therefore the newspapers are an important part of local democracy. With an Advertisement Yes Thanks system, the curtain is currently in danger of being pulled away under this type of local journalism to the detriment of local democracy and cohesion in these areas. In addition, advertising serves a purpose, especially for local operators and for small shops in the neighbourhood, which are already threatened by Internet commerce and online advertising. It is also worth noting that, as can be seen in the consultation answers, more than half of Danish households are registered No Thanks or the so-called No Thanks+ scheme, where the household can specify what you want and do not want to receive. It can be seen as nothing more than an expression that the current No Thanks system on long stretches has the same effect as a Yes Thanks scheme. In the Social Democratic Party we agree that it is important to reduce waste as much as possible. The aim is, of course, that offer papers should only be distributed to recipients who are sure to use them and get value from them. The proposal is based on good considerations. We in the Social Democratic Party are prepared to work further on the aim of reducing the unnecessary part of distribution and to spare the environment as much as possible. Whether the best solution is to give greater attention to the current arrangements or to create a new system, we do not believe that it is quite clear at this stage or with this proposal. Against this background, we cannot support the proposal, but must take note of the recitals and sympathise with the intention. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200101	Thank you. There is a brief comment, first from Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200106	Thank you. I am glad, at least in the end, that they say that they are sympathetic to the intention. That's nice. I hope there will soon be some action relationship to push this. I think it is a little strange that the Social Democrats continue not to really want to take a position here. And then the Minister says before that it is obviously very easy for some to take a position. Well, we've been discussing this for 10 years. It was in the government base in 2011. So it is not some new debate in which we have had to find a position quickly and think for and against. Can't you come to a conclusion soon? That would be really nice. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Social Democrats think that it is a sensible principle to assume that people want to be spammed with advertising.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200158	A great deal has happened since 2011. The world has evolved enormously. The impact we get from outside and online, and the large Internet platforms that compete directly with small local businesses, are developing violently, and a lot of people in the hinterland feel threatened and depressed. This is, of course, some of the things that we are actually paying attention to here and which I think the rapporteur is almost overlooking in the approach that is here. As a direct answer to the question, what if everyone in this country is actually so informed that they know what they are doing or are not doing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200246	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200247	The problem is that there are a lot of people who have problems signing up for this scheme, find it difficult, and experience getting a whole lot of advertisements when they move. I get a lot of inquiries from people who find this scheme extremely difficult. And what is at the heart of this, and what I want to hear from the Social Democratic Party, is whether you think it should be difficult to make the green choice or the black choice. I think we should organise our society in such a way that the green choice is always the easy choice. Does the Social Democratic Party not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200320	It is, of course, a very simple presentation of something which is much more complicated than what the rapporteur is saying here. I could well imagine, as the Minister also mentioned, that these products actually go in such a green recycling direction that the problem over time is minimized. I think it is fantastic that everything is developing in a greener direction, and I also believe that it will happen here. As I have said, we are very concerned that this resolution will not be balanced in relation to the directions we have described in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200352	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200356	We are very concerned about reducing waste where we can, just not when we can do something, apparently. So I have to ask the rapporteur about this, because the rapporteur is a little weave, as to whether it is right to make a Yes Thanks system, that is to say, to say yes to filling your mailbox, or whether you should actively say: No, I will not have stuffed my mailbox with it. What do you think is the right way? Do we have a position on how to proceed with this agenda, where tons of paper ads are distributed in the mailboxes to citizens? In other words, we must have considered a position in the debate over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200436	Yes, and I actually thought the Minister explained that well. On my own behalf, I would like to say that I think the system is quite simple and straightforward, and I will then receive one advertising per week as I have asked for, together with the two weekly newspapers which are not being discussed here. I think it works as it should, and I am very pleased with the scheme. And I am quite convinced that a large proportion of the population is. That way, I feel like I'm helping to reduce the waste of paper. After all, there is no reason to produce something of paper for me that I am not going to use. And, by the way, the paper we have here will be collected and recycled where it will now be, according to the municipal scheme that exists in the municipality of Randers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200514	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200516	I still don't understand why you mix the weekly papers, the local papers, into this, because they have nothing to do with this. But what I am actually hearing from the rapporteur now is that we are satisfied with the system which today and we do not think it should be changed. Are we satisfied with the spread of the present system and do we think it is good enough as it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200536	I say that far along the way it works, and I believe that people think for themselves. After all, the questioner has an approach that may say that you do not believe that people themselves make a positive choice. Then I say, in relation to the delivery of the advertisements, that it is going on with the weekly newspapers that they are each other's prerequisites when it is possible to do so. The rapporteur sits and shakes his head, but now I have had 13-year-old children in the house who have distributed advertisements and weekly newspapers in the same tour, thereby helping to make delivery more efficient, so that it is also cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200610	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. And then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200638	Thank you for the floor. SF has tabled a well-discussed motion for a resolution on a yes-than-you scheme for advertising instead of the No-Thank you scheme we know today. The Left believes that the current system is well-functioning, easy and fast to change if you are unhappy. The offer papers are the Danes' preferred advertising form when looking for offers, and the vast majority of Danes who receive all advertisements are happy with them. This is especially true of the elderly. That is why, basically, we see no reason to change the existing system. However, I would nevertheless like to go into a little detail as to why, for good reasons, the Left does not wish to support the motion for a resolution. Advertising printing is an important means of marketing, especially for small and new companies that are trying to enter the market. The proposal will mean that the small local window cleaner, gardener and bicycle helper will find it harder to see. We are dealing with small self-employed people who do not have very much money at their disposal and where household advertising is an effective and cheap means of showing what you have to offer. The Left does not want to take away the opportunity, because we have a great understanding of how difficult it can be to reach customers with limited resources. Especially with the corona crisis in mind, it seems very inappropriate to make it more difficult for them to restart the economy. The proposal is particularly problematic for local shops in rural areas, which are very much using household advertising. Many self-employed people fear bankruptcy. One example is the local bike dealer who fears no longer being able to reach the new and existing customers. A yes-than-you scheme may mean that consumers instead of choosing to buy the bike in Bilka, where they are still looking to trade. I bet if you finally choose to put a yes-thank you sign on your mailbox, it's mainly yes-thank you to Bilka and Netto where you shop most. That is not yes to the local shops, such as the bicycle dealer, who can offer the same as the large chains. The Left does not want to create an imbalance in competition. All large and small businesses must have a chance on the market. I also think that the proposal discriminates between forms of advertising. After all, we cannot say no to social media advertising, which we must understand is what the proposers prefer. Nor can we say no to advertising on TV, radio and magazines and newspapers. In the Left, we have nothing against advertising. However, I am surprised that the proposers will strengthen Facebook and Google, which already have something similar to the monopoly on online advertising. The resolution is based on climate-friendly reasons, but basically it is Denmark's smallest environmental problem. The graphic industry is at the forefront globally in the efforts for environment- and climate-friendly communication solutions. The number of printed matter is decreasing every year and those remaining are printed on sustainable paper that is recycled. With these words, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200932	Thank you. And there are brief remarks. First, it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511200937	I think it is interesting to hear the Left talk about the small businessman being locally distributed advertising when I look in the mailbox of people who show me what they have been getting from advertising over a week's time. Then it's the big chains that hand out piles of ads. For the small traders, they announce through the local newspaper and thus reach the readers who are local. So I don't understand that argument. Now that you are so fond of this scheme that exists today and say that it is very easy and well-functioning to say no, could you turn it on your head and say that it is just as easy to say: 'Yes, thank you, I would like to have a lot of advertisements in my mailbox', as it is to say no, thank you? Why is it that it is considered a better solution that we should actively say no to spam?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201028	I really think I explained this very well in my speech, but I should like to clarify it. If you say no, as many Danes do about half, I think it's as I understand it. You say no to advertising in general, or you say no to someone If you're going to turn it over to say yes, you'll most likely say yes to Føtex, who might be nearer to me, it's the one that's closest to me because you think that's where you act most. You can't put your little flyer in the bike shop. And yes, there are some coming from the bike dealer, some coming from the local store, some coming from the local pizzeria, something coming from all those who are in the room, and they won't be able to do that all of a sudden. I think that's a shame and a shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201117	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201119	But I still do not see the argument in relation to the fact that it would be much more difficult to say yes. Then you underestimate the Danes in relation to it. I would like to know whether the Left agrees that we need to look at how we are reducing resource consumption and reducing the amount of waste, i.e. whether we are satisfied with the many tonnes that are thrown out every year and that something is recycled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201146	I certainly think that we should look at how much can be recycled. A lot is being recycled today. Much is printed on recycled paper. If it can be done better, I think that this is something that we must do something about. But I think, if I'm not entirely mistaken, that SF thinks it's okay for their candidates to hand out printed matter. Shouldn't the SF start with itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201213	Then it's mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201216	Thank you. The rapporteur says that the current system is well-functioning and easy to use and that you can simply opt out. At the same time, we fear a 'yes' system and talk about the major consequences of it, because so many fewer advertisements will be distributed. It really shows that the Left knows very well that there are a lot of citizens out there who really do not really want advertising and do not intend to sign it up if you are to actively do something about it. So is it not really the truth that the Left knows very well that there are a lot of citizens out there who really do not want the advertisements, but you do not want to make Yes Thanks because you would rather have all those people keep getting advertisements?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201302	Should we not start by saying no, I will actually start somewhere else, because I could look at the other rapporteur when I started mentioning these flyers that the SF candidates are running around with now. This is a huge problem, because as politicians we can put them in the mailbox, whether it says yes or no, thank you on the mailbox. Then we'll have to put them in. I think politicians should start with themselves. At the same time I would like to ask whether it is not correctly understood that the SF voted against a Yes Thanks scheme when we started this because they liked the tax better? That's when you had the opportunity to do something about it. I think it is a little hypocritical that we have this discussion. Because I care about the urban environment and the community. Have you ever heard of shop death? This is gonna lead to shop death. I think it's too bad we're discussing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201353	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201354	I hardly know where to start with so little time you have here. I think it is absolutely crazy to compare political flyers with advertising. I hope that we in this House agree that public education and political campaign and democratic debate are more important than Netto can spam everything and everyone with their offer papers every week. I really think that what is exciting here is also the consumer perspective. I mean, whose mailbox is this? Does the Left not think that, from the outset, it should be the citizen's mailbox that the citizen has power over it, rather than that it is the companies that have power over it and where the citizen should say so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201435	It's super elegant to sign up for a No Thanks solution. And if the rapporteur has problems with that, I am happy to come down and show you how to do it, because it is super easy. Otherwise, I think that the party should start with itself and then don't distribute these printed matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201450	There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511201516	The motion for a resolution which the SF has chosen to table cannot be supported by the Danish People's Party. The weekly newspapers will die, and this is something that the rapporteur naturally wants to minimize and peace be with it, but it is an indisputable fact that there is a direct link between advertising, advertising and weekly newspapers. It is the advertisements that allow the weekly newspapers today to be distributed to all households throughout the kingdom at relatively cheap and affordable prices. The removal of advertisements to all those who do not automatically opt them out in this opt-out and opt-out model that we have today will mean that there will be far, far further between the advertisements to the mailboxes, and thus it will also be considerably more expensive in distribution costs to get the local weekly newspapers out. That is what is called distribution costs, and I hope that SF is aware that these are the consequences of it. I also think it is a pity that we are making this a major environmental debate, since the figures speak their clear language. 88.5% of all paper in Denmark is recycled between 7-10 times. This means that, when Mrs Jensen gets her almost criminalised brochure at least according to the SF, she should not actually have such a bad conscience about it, because the environment is actually under control. All Danish prints are produced according to the Swan brand. The level of pollution, the principles of colour and everything else are under control, and when the Minister said in his speech that you should look at the printing ink, I would just like to say that this has been done for several years. The Swan brand is an extremely well-functioning model used by the Danish factories producing printed matter. There are not many of them left, I should like to say, because just as many printed matter are not produced in the past. Press cases are of great importance for local democracy, local jobs and young people's leisure jobs. Keep in mind that over 10,000 young people here in Denmark have distributed brochures and weekly newspapers as their first contact with the Danish labour market, and when you ask them when they are 50 years old or even older, they will still be able to remember: Well my first job was when I was walking around and distributing advertisements in Smurium Nedre. It's easy to remember. That is why we in the Danish People's Party also think it would be a shame to compromise with it. We also find it a pity that voluntary organizations, such as the Scout movement, are being cut off from being able to make money in the areas of Denmark where it is the Scouts who do not share, as Mr. Carl Valentin touched on their own brochures, but handed them out to others and paid for it to the scouts' cash register. What about rural areas? What about all our grocery stores a little further away than Østerbro and Nørrebro? What about all those shops? There is simply the weekly newspaper essential for them to be able to come out with their advertisements. On the day when it will be twice as expensive to get its advertising out, and it will be when there are no weekly newspapers, it will certainly not end very well in the view of the Danish People's Party when it comes to the desire for it to be better. It's actually gonna get worse. Then I would like to mention something that I have been very puzzled about. After all, we have received a number of consultation answers, and here yesterday one came from something called Plastic Change. It was from an employee who has to be directed plastic changer and polical mastermind. It was on behalf of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, the World Nature Fund, the Council for Green Conversion, World Forests and Plastic Change. The e-mail said that all these associations generally support SF's proposals. What I'm just wondering is that the employee who sent it out, in other words a hearing answer on behalf of all these organizations, is an employee of Mr. Carl Valentin. At any rate, it should be possible to distinguish between being a consultative party and being a politician. So it's not a reasonable form of work to invite the Folketing to mix these caps as well and thoroughly as they have done. I think so, sir. Carl Valentin has to come back to the office. The Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202018	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202023	Thanks for the speech. I can't help but hold on to some of that, like sir. Hans Kristian Skibby mentioned this in relation to the local media and weekly newspapers. It may well be that I read the motion for a resolution incorrectly, because I actually understand it a little opposite of that, Mr President. His Kristian Skibby says. If it is that it will be an option, that it will be an announcement Yes Thank you, then it will actually be an advantage in practice for local newspapers and for weekly newspapers, because this proposal does not deal with local newspapers and weekly newspapers. So I just want to know if the rapporteur cannot explain why it is that he thinks it would be bad for local newspapers and weekly newspapers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202118	That is perhaps the difference between the rapporteur and me, which comes a little out of the country, because the weekly newspapers are filling more with people outside the large urban areas. There the weekly newspapers are both a local life nerve like the primary school and everything else, but it is also a place where many of the advertisements are printed. But if you suddenly want to increase advertising in the form they have today and with the margin they have in distribution, there will be so far between the mailboxes by means of a yes-than-you system that it will be all too expensive to distribute the weekly newspaper that is what is called the total cost of distribution. It would be under massive pressure if this resolution were to come into being. That is why I hope we have not misunderstood anything. Well, at least I've made an imprecise statement. But that is because the weekly newspaper is more in the hands of people in some parts of Denmark than it does elsewhere in Denmark and I also hope that the rapporteur understands that this is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202223	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202223-2	Now the rapporteur must not be cheeky. The local newspaper, where I come from, also means a lot. After all, advertising in weekly newspapers will become even more important, and this will mean that advertising revenue will actually go to some of those who write locals enjoying and supporting the fact that the locals will actually also be covered. So I'm just wondering if the rapporteur has any evidence that it would be more expensive for the weekly newspapers to come around and be distributed, or whether it's just an assumption that the Danish People's Party does, because the hope might be that the advertisements would move into the weekly newspapers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202304	That is the crux of the matter. I also think that we were talking about this in the speeches of the previous rapporteur. In fact, I think that the rapporteur of the Left was quite clear about this, in relation to the fact that there are different types of companies. And I understand that some of these companies just want to book into the local weekly newspaper with three pages for the local Super Brugsen etc. There's no problem with that. But it is the retail trade and all the other shops that we also have to take care of. The total cost of a young person of 13 years of age going out and putting something in a mailbox must be earned, and if suddenly there are not seven advertisements, but only the weekly newspaper, then the entire turnover must be found on the weekly newspaper, and then the income from the seven advertisements is gone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202346	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202350	The rapporteur says something interesting. If you had an advertising yes-thank you scheme, there would be much longer between the mailboxes that would want a weekly newspaper. In other words, it is only because you have to say 'no' directly to spam in your mailbox that you receive it. So with the argument put forward by the rapporteur himself, does the rapporteur agree that it is, of course, because, as it stands today, the system does not actually offer the citizens what they want, namely to avoid advertising in the mailbox?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202421	In other words, it is the rapporteur's choice to call it spam; the rapporteur himself must be the target of that. But that does not change the basic premise. If you botanize this proposal, you will see that it will have the indisputable consequence that there will be longer between our weekly newspapers because they will simply not be able to pay the costs of distributing all their weekly newspapers. I myself have been working in distribution for many, many years, so I dare say that these are the conditions, and we cannot change that in negotiations in here at Christiansborg. If you choose this approach, there will be a marked drop in those who actively go in and say: I just don't want to receive those advertisements. And that means, of course, that there will be longer between the snaps, if you may say so, and that means that the economy will not be able to hang together in relation to distributing these weekly newspapers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202509	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202510	But it's funny about this argument again. That's what I'm asking you about. Isn't that just an argument that the scheme that is today is so ads No Thank you doesn't work? Because if people were actively to ask for advertisements in the mailbox, far fewer would do so. That is what the rapporteur says. So that is an argument that the regime that exists today is actually giving people a lot of advertisements in the mailbox if the rapporteur does not like to call it spam that they do not want, because they would never ask for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202540	That is the way the rapporteur interprets it. I think it is of course a pity that SF thinks it is just spam, but it is one of the prices that we have free weekly newspapers in the Kingdom of Denmark, and I am actually very surprised that we have to see today that SF suddenly has to be a banner leader on some kind of declaration of war or vendetta against all of the country's weekly newspapers. Well, that's what we're experiencing. Their operating costs are already under pressure. We do not need to have the extended Baccalaureate to know about this; in fact, it is a situation which is widely known, by far, in most places.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202617	Then there are no further brief comments and we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kathrine Oldag.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202638	Thank you for that, President. In fact, in the Radical Left, we have been in favour of a yes-than-you-go scheme in the past. We discussed, as the SF rapporteur has also pointed out, ten years ago under the then S-SF-R government. At that time, we also ended up making an advertising tax instead, but nevertheless the discussion was also very relevant at that time. However, in my view, and in our view in the Radical Left, something has happened to the development, both of the distribution of advertising, and of the digitalisation of the market to such an extent that we actually believe that a Yes Tak regime is perhaps not really the right way to go. The Minister has previously pointed out here in his speech that there is a third way, and that sounds in many ways quite radical. Sorry, it's gonna be a little distracting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202737	I would just like to ask for some silence in the Chamber so that we can concentrate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202743	Thank you. I'm sorry, but I just had a hard time concentrating. The Danish People's Party has also presented a very, very thorough review of the various facts, what it is like with the different stages of the distribution, and what this is all about. I feel exactly the same way as the minister, namely that this one is not black and white. In 2020, FK Distribution has, for example: The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer was approved by the Council. is recycled paper, and 100 per cent. of it is the Swan brand, which DF has also pointed out. Moreover, this is also expected to decline. It would be possible to work politically to introduce additional environmental requirements for the distribution and quality of paper and the proportion of re-use or the volume of advertising, which is also shrinking. These commercials are getting thinner and thinner. We also have a climate image which, for us in the Radical Left, would probably be the key to talking about. It's a little the one with the prune on the counter: how many tons of CO2 And there we are down to something called 70,000 kg of CO2 It is also expected to fall because we have introduced a green tax reform, which will impose a CO2 to that extent is 51 percent. of Danish households registered with a No Thanks scheme, and we see no reason to change that either. When the prune is going to be on the counter and we have to press the button because we also want to embrace this proposal that has good intentions, we might end up voting yellow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202932	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and the first is from Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511202937	Thank you. It was not the most negative speech that has been from the platform today, but it has clearly been the most surprising. I'll say. In 2020, the support parties, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the SF sent out a joint press release stating that we want a Advertising Yes Thanks scheme. Radical Left climate rapporteur, Ruben Kidde, writes on June 12 on Facebook, and I quote: A third of all paper waste comes from promotional newspapers and advertisements, which many archive directly in the trash can. Therefore, the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten propose to introduce a Advertising Yes Thanks scheme, so only those who actively choose adverts will get them. If you agree, he writes in the end. What has happened to the Radical Left since then? How did you end up in a place where you want to vote yellow, where you are not quite sure what you mean and where you talk about things having evolved? They haven't evolved since 2020, have they?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203035-2	You can also, what to say, look at some of the consultation answers that come from both the industry, the Danish media and the Rural Council. When we look down over this discussion, we see very much a division into country and city, which are also other rapporteurs have talked about. For us in the Radical Left, this matter is probably not as clear as it has been before. We are also proposing and have supported the waste agreement. After all, we have entered into and nodded to it, and it says that the government of the European Commission must check whether this is possible at all. We would actually rather put the discussion there, which is why we are also putting it yellow now, because we really want to be involved in discussing this. We're split up on this, too. In fact, it is not necessarily the evils against the good or a black-and-white discussion, one might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203137	I think this is a huge failure. I just have to say that we are now in a place where we are in doubt and not in absolute certainty and where we will wait for the European Union and something like that against last year's direct proposal that we go out together with all the green organisations that back up. It is the Danish Nature Conservation Association, the World Nature Fund, the Council for Green Conversion, the World Forests, Plastic Change, the Consumer Council Think, the Danish Waste Association and Advertisements Yes The Tak Association, that is, a huge group who together have tried to raise this agenda. And now the Radical Left is faltering. I find that worrying, and I think it is quite clear how much power some lobbyists have in this matter, when it is possible to change the views of the Radical Left to be hesitant now from having been very positive, and from the fact that the Radical Left itself has proposed it a year ago. I'm really disappointed. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203229-2	We just don't think this is necessarily a quick fix on this problem, because we totally recognise that there's a problem with the paper supply. But I think we are more in agreement with the Social Democrats on this point. We do not think this is such an easy agenda and we would rather discuss it when we have a result from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203252	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203254	It is just to be sure: what has been asked in the Commission is about the legal issue, so if the Commission says that it is fine and that we in Denmark should just get started, does the Radical Left still believe today the same as the Radical Left did last year, namely that we should have a Advertising Yes Thanks scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203315	Well, I think the questioner will have to arm himself a little with patience, because it should not be a secret that the Radical Left parliamentary group is divided on this issue, and that is also why we are voting yellow. We would very much like to wait for the European Commission to come to terms with this issue. The legal issue divides itself into all sorts of different types of legal issues. It is, of course, from human rights to trade agreements etc. when you review that note.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203342	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203343	But again: we have not asked the Commission to assess whether this is a good solution or whether it is a bad solution. We have asked them for a legal assessment, in line with the agreement entered into with a desire for a Advertising Yes Thank you scheme, including by Radicals. But the rapporteur was on this third road, which was supposed to be extremely exciting and something like that is something that can then be put into practice a little more? Because I would like to end with the many thousands of tonnes of resources that are being used in this way; I would like to give power over people's mailboxes back to themselves. So what's this third way? I heard a little something about some charges or something about a claim for the Swan Mark or what's it like?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203422	After all, the Swan brand is already a requirement today • it is at least a requirement from various suppliers and customers. The paper is already swan-marked 100 per cent, so that way we can't go any further. But that is why you can look at what other types of demands we can make on the volume of advertising. Or you can also look at whether you really should try to nudge companies into moving to the digital. Well, more and more supermarkets get apps installed now that you can find your adverts, and that way is probably the way forward. It was not so clear ten years ago, but it is the path we are going to move along, and I think that will also be the case for local newspapers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203502	Thank you to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. There are no more brief comments. And welcome to Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten... De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203520	Thank you, and also thank you for concluding by saying Enhedslisten • De Red-Greenne, because some of what I really think is very good about the proposers' proposal here today is that the green is made the easy choice, and I almost think, without putting too many words into the mouth of the proposers, that we also have good ideas on how we can also secure the red. Because if you listen to the arguments that come to Parliament, it sounds as if there were a series of companies that would go bankrupt if we did this, but I know that Enhedslisten said to the government on 1 May that we should make a green job plan, and I hope and am really sure that SF fully agrees that in the context of the environmental measures and climate measures, all the measures we are going to take to ensure that we have a green conversion, we must, of course, ensure that continuing training is followed up for the people it is going to affect, so that they have a concrete transformation and can have even better opportunities in the future, but that we also have to ensure that some really good jobs are created, so that the green conversion actually offers opportunities instead of restrictions. That is why I have to say that I am very much in agreement. If we were to say anything about this motion for a resolution, which was to be made quite simple and brief, it should be that it is about making the green choice the easy choice. You could also listen to the other arguments that the EU is standing in the way, that it costs jobs and that companies cannot enter the market. I think there are some misunderstandings, because this can easily be a good thing, and in fact I almost forgot the wildest argument I have heard, and that is that it would be bad for the environment and that it would be bad for the climate; nevertheless, I think that is pretty absurd. Anyway, having said that, I believe in it, at least from my own local newspaper, that the fact that you actually support the fact that a good journalistic piece of work is being done that takes on local perspectives and will make much more use of your weekly newspaper will have a huge impact. I believe in the argument that you can actually see the positive and put on the yes cap and say that we should say yes to advertising, instead of saying no to advertising. I have long ago, because I have got a new address, ordered a no thank you to the advertising mark, and I just wanted to say that it is actually not quite simple. It takes a long time, and you get a complete stomachache over all the paper that gets thrown out. And that is the reality for a lot of people: it is paper, and it is a duty to ensure that the paper is sorted in the right place. Quite a lot of people do not actually read the advertisements that are coming, and I also think that there are many studies that come up with clear answers time and time again. So for me and for Enhedslisten, this is an opportunity to make the green choice easier. That is a positive way to do it, and frankly, let us challenge the European Union if it is that they are actually going to stand in the way of this. I have to admit that there are some things about tax havens and some other things where the government is annoyingly slow, about what the answers from the European Union are, and there we are at least in the Enhedsliste ready to challenge, if not this could be a way we could take the lead and move forward and also inspire other countries and be inspired by other countries that have already done so. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203917	You're welcome. But it's not over yet. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511203925	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Enhedslisten for their support, which I had also expected, since we went out together and proposed it, together with the Radical Left last year. After all, the rapporteur asked a little about SF in relation to green jobs and what to do about people who might lose their jobs. In other words, we are fully involved in continuing training and that there must be a proper transition if you lose your job as a result of this. And that is the way it is when you make changes in society: sometimes there will be some who lose their jobs, and then I think that as a society we also have an obligation to help them further. So we're quite ready for that. That was really just the comment I had. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204013	I am really glad that there was just an answer to that. I had also expected that it would be positive that it would be progressive, because we have a unique opportunity to actually show the way forward. And I also think that even if it may be something we take for granted in the SF and in the Enhedslisten, it may be nice for a lot of people to hear that it is said out loud. Because I know from my own hinterland that it can also create some uncertainty. Hey, what's going to happen to my job and what's going to happen to my future in relation to the green transition? And there we have some answers. We're ready. And that's why I thought it was a really good answer from the SF, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204057	Is it true that the questioner would like to ask another question?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204101	Yeah, actually, I'd like that. Because there was something I forgot to say, and it was just that I agree with the rapporteur that we should challenge the European Union on this if it ends up being blocked. We have also received a note from the Danish EPA from 16 September 2019 which actually indicates that Denmark can introduce a Advertising Yes Thanks scheme within EU legislation. So we think that we should push here, and it is important, especially in environmental and climate issues, that Denmark also dares to challenge the European Union if green solutions are blocked there. So here we agree with the Enhedslisten, although we are not always in relation to EU issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204134	That sounds really exciting. Uh, now the Minister of Business is just trying to sneak away like this doesn't make him have to take notes. But now I'm just telling him to take notes here. For it may well be that the Minister for Industry does not always agree with the Enhedslisten on the EU issue, but this might well be a place where there might be a little consensus to dare challenge the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204201	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204205	Thank you, sir. President. Well, I think it is very liberating that the rapporteur thinks it was a humorous remark that there was someone here in the Danish Parliament who was presumptuous to question the glorification that exists in relation to the environmental issue that we are experiencing from both the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party. In fact, I think that we are based on the facts, and I hope that the rapporteurs are aware of this, namely that 881⁄2%. of all advertising printed matter and newspapers and weekly newspapers are recycled between seven and ten times, and the last 111⁄2%. typically end up in a cogeneration plant and turn into power, like biofuels and everything else, i.e. from household waste. Does the rapporteur really believe that this is a real, really great climate challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204252	Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby very well at Enhedslisten and I are very concerned. There we have been together in plenty of negotiating rooms for me to know that Hans Kristian Skibby knows. I think it's really good that you get recycled more things, that you find out and it can also sometimes be curiosity that can drive it • how we can use things in new ways. It just doesn't change the fact that once things have been used for the first time, it also has a strain on nature, on climate and on the planet itself. And no matter how good we get to re-use things and there I also hope that the rapporteur knows that this is something that we in the Enhedslisten and I are passionate about getting even better at, we still have an impression for the first time we use them, and that is why, apart from being good at re-use, we have to reduce the things that need to be recycled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204357	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204357-2	Yes, I look forward to Enhedslisten conjuring up the same great interest in how we should do it with regard to e.g. earned car batteries and earned large windmill wings. I hope then that we will see them in the same zeal, because there we actually already have major problems with the new types of energy today, namely that it is difficult to know what to do about the waste materials that are when the energy source, the individual windmill and the individual car are served, if I may say so. I hope the rapporteur is aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204434-2	We are immensely concerned about this, and I hope that you are also in the Danish People's Party, also of things that typically aren't materializing in something we often think about profit heating, all the things that the smallest detail is one of the things we think about very much. That is also one of the reasons why, when we are discussing electric cars, which we think it is positive to use instead of using petrol cars, we also have a concern about that, of course, because there are some materials that are being used in electric cars, which there are not very many resources on the planet, and that is how the list could continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204514	Thank you to Mrs Victoria Velasquez. There are no more brief comments. That is why we can welcome Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204526	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution makes the Danish economy extremely poor, and it is important to remember what pays for what in this country. Advertisements Yes The Tak scheme instead of Advertisements No The Tak scheme will have a number of harmful effects. This would damage local news and probably cost the weekly newspapers their lives. Tens of thousands of young people are in danger of losing their leisure work. This will not only be an economic problem, because the delivery of newspapers and advertisements is often the first job of young people, where you get to know the value of DKK 1. and learn to order something. And I do not assume that there are any parties in the Folketing that do not want young people to learn to do a job and know the value of 1. kr., so that later in life they can also become part of the backbone of Danish society. Retail trade is hampered, both in the larger cities, the smaller towns and rural areas. Advertisements and trade will be moved more to the Internet, and let me remind you that approx. 32% of all online trade takes place on foreign webshops, and those who have tabled the resolution may of course ask themselves where foreign webshops pay their taxes. With these comments, we cannot see ourselves in the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much. And I should like to greet the Christian Democrats and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204700	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen in this round. Welcome to sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204727	Thank you. We say no to the 'yes' proposal because it is a pretty bad idea for Danish business. It'll cost a lot of things. And then we feel a little bit that if you finally want something on the part of the Danish Parliament, you can start with the things that we have under control here. I was actually trying to make a pile of those magazines in my office that we get from all sorts of organizations of interest that we put in the back tax dollars so they can make all these magazines. And within a month I would actually have gotten a meter high pile, and if I continued, I think I could make it right up to the ceiling. And that is something where we spend tax dollars on it even. It might be exciting to hear when the SF's rapporteur comes up here later, whether they think we should try to put some restrictions on it and say to these associations, lobbyists, interest groups, save the child, and what they say, if they get tax dollars, they cannot send out written material. Then I would like to know whether we should go that way or whether it is only private business advertising that is not allowed to be distributed, or whether but in fact believes that it should be general and that everyone should not be able to do so. Then perhaps there could be a little more positivity in it. However, the proposal as it stands here cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511204922	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. I can tell you that the Bureau decided a few years ago that the magazines would not necessarily be distributed, you would have to stand in some holders so that the extent of them was minimized, and this has minimized the volume by more than 80%. That's why they're up on the top shelf out there. It is such an attempt to say that, at least as a minimum, we must give an active 'yes' vote if we want those magazines. Lars Boje Mathiesen If it's a meter magazine after 80 percent reduction, I wouldn't have seen it before). Yeah, I can understand that. Then we move on to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511205000	Thank you. We shall vote against the motion for a resolution. We think it's important that we can communicate with each other in this society. We would not like, if we had it as a general rule, that the prerequisite for being allowed to communicate with others was that others had previously agreed that they would like to be communicated to. We think that the general rule should be that people should be allowed to approach other people. Then, in the area of advertising, we have introduced the possibility of registering for a No Thanks scheme if you do not want it in your mailbox, and we are also satisfied with that. But advertising actually has a value when it comes to informing people that there is a better offer somewhere else. It increases competition between players in a market that Netto can tell that their products are thus cheaper than the products in Føtex. It has a value, and it helps to keep consumer prices down, so that you can communicate to customers and tell them that you have something good that they should be aware of. So for these reasons we shall vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511205116	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511205120	The Liberal Alliance has a principle that one should be allowed to communicate and that one should not have a society where one must actively give consent in order to be allowed to communicate. Does this also mean that the Liberal Alliance would like to change the legislation in relation to e-mails? Well, today, you have to give active consent to getting advertising as an e-mail and to companies being able to send you that. Would that be a good change of law in the eyes of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511205147	We have not discussed this, i.e. whether it should be done, but I can imagine that it must be possible gradually to have such good filters on your inbox that with them you can say no to getting things that are advertising-like, if you want it; so, so the rule we have in the legislation that you cannot send to people unless you have their acceptance in advance is actually superfluous. We must then also say that we are getting so much from abroad where we do not feel subject to our rules in this area that we have banned Danish
ParlaMint-DK_20210511205232	The questioner? Carl Valentin I have nothing more, thank you). Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511205259	Thank you for the floor. It is pouring in; it is pouring in with infinite amounts of meaningless advertisements in the Danes' mailboxes. 113.432 t printed advertisements per year according to the Danish EPA's latest inventory from 2016. It is a totally insane amount and a huge waste of resources in my optics and then even in the midst of a climate and environmental crisis. When we talk about use and throw away culture, maybe this is one of the most glaring examples. And it's not even use and throw away-culture, no, it's in a lot of cases just throw away-culture, because many of these ads aren't even used, but just go to the mailbox and then go straight to the trash bin afterwards. Then why do we have this huge waste? Yes, we do, because we have a hopeless old-fashioned scheme in Denmark which is designed to assume that people want to be spammed with advertising instead of assuming that they really want to be free. That is why SF has today put forward a proposal to turn the scheme upside down, so instead of having a Advertising No Thank you scheme in the future has a Yes Thank you scheme to save the climate, save the environment and save our resources, but also because the mailboxes are citizens. These are not companies' mailboxes, and therefore citizens must have the right to serve and not businesses. That is actually a very simple principle. Another simple principle is that the green choice must be the easy choice. We must reward those who make the green choice. We should not place the burden on those who do. I think that we politicians can get used to the fact that this is the approach that we should take when we make legislation in here, in other words that the green choice must be the easy choice, and of course it must be the one with the advertising. Well, it's not so hard to sign up, so there's so much that says in the debate. I hear something else. I have heard a lot of inquiries from people who have problems signing up and who are being spammed with advertisements every time they move their address. But even if we assumed that those who claimed this were right, if it were super easy to quit and that there were never any problems, then we should still put away the burden of those who made the socially damaging choice, the black choice, instead of those who make the sustainable choice. That's a simple and good principle. This is a public matter. There is a study from Coop that has shown that the Danes do not just want an Advertisement Yes Thanks scheme. No, 55%. By the Danes will directly ban these advertisements, so turning the scheme upside down should be the least we could do. It shouldn't be so hard to back up. Unfortunately, however, it seems that the Blue Block and now also the Radical Left, I understand, have been seduced by the lobbyists in this matter and want to continue the madness and the huge waste of paper. I have to answer some of these claims that I hear in this debate here. No, it doesn't matter that there are tons of advertisements coming in from the letterbox just because they go for recycling. For advertising is actually fairly difficult to recycle, and they cannot be recycled directly into new promotional newspapers. They can only be downcycled as it is called, and that is because it is a complex process to remove ink and then whiten the paper, and I think that is important to have in the debate. Because that means that our massive advertising consumption is making a huge waste of resources. In addition, it is also in the waste hierarchy that we should not only recycle, but also prevent waste, and that is exactly what this proposal is doing. I must also say: no, it is not a disaster that there are some jobs going into this. Because there is, of course there is, but that's the way it is when you change things in a society. And I think I have to ask, what's the alternative? The alternative is, of course, that we continue and continue to distribute endless amounts of advertising for all eternity to come. It's pointless. We need to dare to make choices that also change our society, even if there will be some minor difficulties about it. Moreover, young workers, who are often those who distribute these advertisements, are a rather flexible working group which can easily find another job. So there should be problems with EU law, which the Minister has attached great importance to and is also the whole excuse for social democracy having so much wool in its mouth. In a memo from the Danish EPA dated 16 September 2019, the Danish EPA writes, among other things, and I quote here: "This means that the existing scheme can be changed to a yes-than-than-you scheme on grounds of environmental considerations without conflicting with EU rules, according to the Department of Business's memo. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency therefore refers to a note from the Danish Business Authority, which has considered that a yes-than-you-go scheme could be introduced in accordance with current EU law. So I'm having a little trouble seeing what the big problem is. And if there is really any doubt as to whether we should be able to do so for the European Union, despite the fact that Amsterdam has, moreover, introduced a similar system, then we must have our shoes chalked and discuss it with the European Union. It is one year since the Minister promised us that he would make contact with the European Union about this, and we still do not have any clarification. I think that's too bad. But I would like to thank the Danish Nature Conservation Association, thanks to the World Nature Fund, the Council for Green Conversion, World Forests, Plastic Change, Consumer Council Think, Danish Waste Association, Advertising Association Yes Thank you. There are so many who are fighting this fight here, and I really think it is strong work. It is time for something to happen, because Denmark is one of the countries in Europe that produces absolutely the most waste per person. We must have changed that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210025	There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210030	I understand that it doesn't matter to the SF who loses the money and loses their jobs. It's never really meant that much. I would like to ask: how about we start where we can start in the Danish Parliament, so in our own little duckdam SF will be willing to make it as a requirement for all associations, NGOs, Save the Children and all sorts of others who receive public treasures that they are no longer allowed to make written material that they send out?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210059	No, these are very different things. Association work and the distribution of flyers by political parties and NGOs serve a social purpose. There are plenty of beneficial things for our society, we have a good and open democratic debate and so on, whereas the fixed Netto offer papers are not really something that makes a terrible contribution to democracy. It must also be said that we do not intend to ban these things. I think it sounds a lot to the bourgeois parties as if we were going to ban advertising. We don't. We're just trying to reverse the scheme so you don't assume people want to be spamed with ads. I think it is actually a rather noble proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210146	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210147	This is where the chain jumps off, because SF believes that what they like must be spread to all sorts of others, and it is believed that you have the right to do so. It is clear that in a socialist way it is okay. But that's why there are a lot of bourgeois people, and that's why there are a lot of organisations in rural areas, HK, Danish Business and all sorts of people who know that some money has to be made that say no to this. That is also why a party such as the Social Democratic Party, which knows very well, after all, that we cannot go too far down the socialist road, because then there will be a bill that will have to be paid, also saying no to this. Because there are a lot of interest groups. Like some people say yes to this, some people also say no. However, it becomes hypocritical when you say 'no' where you can actually do something, because if it is the environment and the climate that the rapporteur says it is, you could make it a requirement for all these NGOs that you do not want them to contribute to this climate mess with all the magazines that are being sent out. SF could stop handing out flyers, and then you could take the lead in all these areas. That is where there are tax dollars in it, it is in its own duck pond, and then you could let the private companies do what they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210252	I understand that there are plenty against this proposal. Believe me, I've had a lot of meetings with people who have financial interests in continued advertising, who think this is absolutely horrible. So just as a side remark: I do not think that it will benefit the climate if SF stops distributing flyers, because the whole prerequisite for us to get something done about the green transition is, in fact, that there are some more who vote for some green parties. So one of the best things we can do to create more green conversion is to make sure that more people vote red.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210323	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210326	Thank you, sir. President. I took note of the fact that in his first part of the summing-up, the rapporteur said that the Radicals had changed their position, and the rapporteur said that they had been seduced by lobbyists. I would just like to ask the rapporteur about this, because I have noted, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, that lobbyists are working at SF, who are sending us business rapporteurs on Monday evening on behalf of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, the World Nature Fund, the Green Conversion Council, the World Forests and Plastic Change, and write that they recommend that we support the SF's proposal. If you then go in and look at their merits and CV etc., you will see that she is the one who is employed in the rapporteur's office. Is it normal practice in the SF to hire lobbyists directly within the party's funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210420	My intern doesn't work as a lobbyist, but it's true that she works for Plastic Change, and then she sent out an e-mail on behalf of them. I really don't think there's anything very obnoxious about it. It's completely open that my intern has two jobs right now. She works for SF, and she also works for Plastic Change. She has then sent out a message on behalf of these organisations, and it is quite freely available that she works for both of them. I am just glad that there are green NGOs who also want to work for the SF, and I am very proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210449	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210450	I would just like to say that there is at least a difference between the Danish People's Party's approach to how people are employed and how to do their job, and then the practice that is in the Socialist People's Party. It is unheard of that an employee sits at night and says: What hat am I wearing today? Today I am a lobbyist, but I write straight to all the business rapporteurs. An e-mail was even sent to the rapporteur himself. Is it really the practice of Danish parties to get support from the Treasury to hire their employees that they then hire lobbyists who sit on working hours and write e-mails to the rapporteurs of other parties, but do not mention a word that they are employed by the SF? I certainly hope that is not normal practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210533	It is at the edge of the subject, but as long as the rapporteur himself does not suggest that he would like to discuss something else, I will let it run. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210545	It's okay. It is fairly common practice that our trainees are allowed to have a study job alongside, as is the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210553	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have therefore been concluded. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. Despite the talking club over here at the Ministry, it's decided.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210615	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210639	Thank you for that, President. With this advanced time of day here I think I'm putting on my glasses so I can see what I'm supposed to say here. It's one of these kinds of proposals where you can say that the corona has done a lot of bad things, but that maybe some of it is good. Last year, at least, an agreement was reached between some forward-looking parties here in the Folketing, which was about making it possible to take a vocational training course at 110%. of the daily allowance rate if the training is in an area where there is a shortage of labour. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that we must invest our way out of the crisis and that we must invest in people, and it is therefore interesting to see that since 1 August there has been an opportunity to make use of this scheme and, according to the Labour Movement's Employment Council, there are almost 1,000 people who have chosen to make use of this temporary arrangement until January this year, and that is very good. After all, each of the 1,000 citizens has taken a step in the right direction in relation to a stronger link with the labour market and greater job security and greater financial security for themselves. There are several analyses that point to the fact that by 2030 we will be missing thousands of skilled, many more thousands, hands that will be crucial to achieving the green transition that we are all working for. At the same time, we know that countless unskilled jobs are disappearing, and education is therefore important if good people are to continue to have a good link with the labour market. Because we need them, and that is why it makes very good sense to extend this opportunity for training, so that we can also start vocational training at an increased daily allowance rate throughout 2022. In the meantime, it has also become apparent that the rules in force regarding re-employment in the benefit system mean that during the period of residence as a pupil you will automatically be re-placed and then receive a lower benefit rate. That's never been the intention, and fortunately, this bill is going to end and change. So from the point of view of the Social Democrats, I can just say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210854	It wasn't that shocking. At least nobody wanted a brief comment. So we say thank you, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen from the Social Democratic Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511210927	Thank you for the floor. 73,000 full-time jobs, that was the job loss a year ago in April 2020. Fortunately, in April this year 17,500 more Danes came to work, and that is pleasing. However, we are still not in the employment objective, which has been badly affected during the Corona crisis. Many unskilled people have lost their jobs during the corona crisis, and they will continue to benefit from the opportunity to take an education which will also be in demand for the future. It has been a clear Left priority to ensure a skills increase for unskilled workers. It is therefore still relevant to extend the possibility of a training boost which will automatically be re-placed during a daily allowance period for members covered by the promise of 110%. In February 2021, the Left, together with the other parties, landed an agreement to further improve compensation for not least small traders. The proposal to extend the right to start training in occupations where there is a shortage of labour to 110% of the daily allowance is to be seen in the context of other elements of the agreement, such as: support for small businesses, sport and industry, which were important for the Left. Today, therefore, the Left backs the proposal to extend the training promise by an increased daily allowance rate of 110%. until 2022 and can therefore support the draft law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511211101	Thank you very much to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. There are no brief comments here either. That's why we're gonna go over to mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511211120	Thank you for that, President. This proposal is one that we in the Danish People's Party can support. Now it has been examined by the last two rapporteurs what this means. I am not going to prolong the debate with that. But I think, if we're going to find some hair in the soup, that now that we have an agreement circle that has made the agreement of 110%. We have sat over with the minister and negotiated it in place before the corona crisis we negotiated it in place, so it might well have been appropriate for the Minister to have just taken up all the parties involved in that agreement. It should only be remembered that when you make an agreement on aid packages in a large circle, you catch Conservatives that they have agreed to an agreement that those who want to make the agreement were hard against. They wouldn't even be looking at 110%. But now all of a sudden, they've agreed to a daily allowance of 110%. Of course, it's also a tricky way to catch Conservatives, but Conservatives have to get out of it themselves. But I think we could have just made contact with the parties behind it. The Danish People's Party played a very important role in giving us the 110 percent, and then we were left out of this. I know there was a package that we couldn't agree to. It wasn't because of this. However, it would have been appropriate if the Minister had just contacted me, who, as rapporteur, was involved in negotiating whether it was accepted. Then I know that the Minister has also been excluded, because this has been agreed in the area of the Minister for Industry. The Minister for Employment has not been involved in this at all. It's such a weird thing. That's the way the government acts. The ministers who have the cases must be quite right, and here the Minister for Employment is so well and thoroughly squirted by the Minister for Finance and the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Industry. It was agreed over in the Ministry of Industry, but we will then have the task of putting it into practice here in the field of employment. This is one of the most ridiculous things the government does when it comes to making aid packages. Most of the legislative proposals we have had, which deal with aid packages, have been adopted in the field of the Minister of Employment and the Minister of Employment has not been involved in negotiating it. Nor have we employment rapporteurs been involved in any way in the negotiations, and then we do something like that here and say that we have adopted it in a large circle, but without really putting the party leaders into what it is really about and what we have agreed in the various negotiations. You don't. All you're saying is, we're gonna need these help packages. And then you keep the covid-19 high and say that it is because of the covid-19 that you do not get hold of the Minister for Employment and the Employment rapporteurs in those areas. I believe that the Employment Committee is the committee which has had the most urgent legislation in the past year and a half or more of a year since the Corona crisis began. We have had all the aid packages to benefit employees, but also some of the business community, in the field of employment, but we have not been involved in negotiating them in place. Neither has the Minister for Employment. That's what's the most ridiculous thing. Then you catch some parties like that. Last week it was with the 225-hour rule, where I had a solution made so that we could get a separate bill. But here there is nothing about Conservatives being able to make a solution. Here the Conservative rapporteur has to go up and say: my party leader has agreed to this. We were against the 110%. And I must promise that Mrs Mai Mercado thundered well against the 110% when it was agreed. At least it wasn't something Conservatives would be involved in never in life. Never would they ever be part of it, and then the poor Conservative rapporteur is now sitting up and saying yes. And that's a new man in the mail... sorry. Perhaps that is why it is ungrateful to be rapporteur for Conservatives on this issue. But let's just leave it alone. The Danish People's Party thinks this is a good arrangement. However, we have some questions about the right to re-use. We have discussed this and hopefully we cannot use the right of return to extend the period by 110%. daily subsistence allowance. That's how I get it from the minister that you can't. But we'll send you some questions about this. The Danish People's Party has helped to make the proposal of 110%. unemployment benefit from the start, and we are of course saying yes to this proposal now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511211635	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511211656	Hopefully, everyone knows the challenge. It is right in front of us and we can discuss the size of the challenge, but it is probably in the vicinity of the fact that by 2020-2030 we will be missing about 100,000 skilled people and, on the other hand, have a deficit in the vicinity of 50,000 unskilled people. The challenge is clear: we need skilled workers. The solution is, of course, just as clear: more training for more people. Training is good for the individual employee, who will often receive a higher salary, a better job and more choice. Companies will have a more flexible workforce, and this will bring dynamism to jobs. Society is becoming richer with a better educated population and with a more flexible labour market. One of the means to get more people to train is, of course, to make it more attractive and increase the compensation to the 110%. I think it is rather small and I sincerely doubt whether it is enough for us to really get it going. I also believe that at the same time we must look at how adults can learn in new and different ways than those we do today. On the other hand, I have no doubt for a moment that it will pay off. Therefore, let us already agree that we are doing a mid-term review and, on that basis, if it does otherwise bouncing out in a good way, make the scheme permanent. It is incredibly important that both companies and employees know what they have to comply with. If you are an adult and unskilled, it may take a while to find out what your future plans should be. If you are going to make use of new offers as a company, it also takes time to get your mind on what the possibilities are. This is something that can take a few years when a company and an employee talk to each other every once in a while about how the company can bring the employee forward and how it can bring more value to the company. That is why I think it is important that the type of arrangements we are talking about here should be of a period of years which enables companies to adjust their policies and employees to adapt their private lives to the need for them to train more. Because if we do not, things will go wrong, first and foremost for the individual who will be limited in his life opportunities. Businesses will suffer greatly if they do not have access to highly qualified and flexible labour, and society will become poorer. SF supports that bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511211943	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212002	Thank you. After all, the area of employment has been severely affected by the Corona crisis and, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted said that it is the employment rapporteurs who have been most often in the Chamber on urgent legislative proposals. I hope we're about to be where it's gonna be some of the last laws related to corona that we can deal with. But a helping hand is still needed, and that is why the Radical Left is also supporting this bill because it is aimed precisely at those areas where there is a shortage of labour. It is aimed at those people who have outdated skilled training, and then it is part of a larger agreement with other elements that give a helping hand to business. So Radical Left backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212100	Thank you so much. There are no brief comments, and that is why I would like to welcome Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten-De Rød-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212112	Thank you so much. I've been looking forward to this very much. Right now we have to deal with some of what we in the Enhedslist have fought a great deal for in the negotiations on the aid packages. So I've been looking forward to it. When we look at the corona figures and the economic calculations and figures on employment etc. in general during this time, while there has been corona, one can quickly pull on the smile tape that it immediately seems that things are going well in Denmark. But if you tend to dig a little in those numbers, which we do have a tendency to do, at least we have in the Enhedslisten for habit, then it looks a little harder. It is clear to see that employees have lost, employees have paid, because there has been a reduction in wages in relation to the values that have been at stake in society while shareholders have earned. In this light, this is just a proposal that we in the Enhedslist have been looking forward to, because it is actually a proposal that we think is really important. We know that education is an important key to achieving better opportunities for the future and that it also often gives you an even better working life and professional pride in the things you create in everyday life. In fact, I would also like to commend the government for ensuring that you are actually re-placed in your old place in relation to your daily allowance. This is one of the things that has also been important to us in the Enhedslisten, so that we did not create any disadvantages for those employees who are actually just trying to train and try to do the right thing when they listen on the radio, that we will be lacking many skilled people in the future etc. I would like to express a huge acknowledgment to many of you who are doing so, many of you who are actually taking an education. For several of you, it's been a long time since you've been on the school bench, and it's hard all of a sudden to get back there, so a huge recognition for it, because that's what we need. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212347	Thank you to Mrs Victoria Velasquez. There are no brief comments. Welcome to sir. Mads Andersen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212401	Now I'm a little sorry that Mr. Bent Bøgsted had time to run, because I was actually going to go upstairs and say, "That's it, sir. Bent Bøgsted said. Because I've never heard anyone talk so much about my party from up here. But I'll let that be Bent Bøgsted's case. Thank you for the floor, President. The recent negotiations have been many, and agreements on reopening have also been made, and I can also understand that now I have not been so long in here that it has been a slightly different parliamentary season, if you can call it that. In the Conservative People's Party we basically have the principle that we would rather bite ourselves on the edge of the table if we could see ourselves in an agreement. We could see ourselves in the agreement which extends this system of training vows, and we could of course do so because, among other things, it does. created additional safety net under those who create growth in jobs out there, namely business. The part of the agreement which then concerns this proposal is not necessarily a rose that has grown in our gardens, and I think everyone in here is aware of that, but if they are not, Mr. Bent Bøgsted is aware of it, and otherwise I am sure the Minister will agree with it and can confirm it. In the Conservative People's Party we actually pay tribute to a targeted employment system, a system that points the unemployed towards industries that lack labour. We are in complete agreement with that. Several municipalities are really good at making the coupling and pointing available labour directly into a relevant course or in a relevant training, which then gives the job at the other end. But is it necessarily the 110%? the unemployment benefit rate, which must determine whether the unemployed person chooses to go that way? Here, as a society, we should like to have high ambitions and expectations for our unemployed citizens, who are, of course, paid by the community fund. We also want to discuss the whole of training for job thinking, and we know that there are a lot of good examples in the municipalities. As you all know, and as sir... Bent Bøgsted pointed out that it is with a little wrinkled forehead that we approve this proposal, since we are loyal to the agreement that has been reached. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212605	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212614	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I just couldn't help but sign in because I sometimes think that there is something a little absurd in the logic that comes from the Conservatives. It is about the fact that if you are rich, you need more money to be motivated to do something, whereas if you are not as well upholstered or mediated, you just need less money to be motivated to do something. The reason why I cannot help asking that question is that the rapporteur is in doubt about the good thing about actually ensuring financial security for the benefit recipients who are doing something that I think is brave. We know that for many of them it is actually difficult to get to school. I am just a little surprised to be quite honest, and so I would like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to elaborate on how it might be that one wants to motivate the richest by giving them more money, but remains in doubt when it comes to some of those who have less money on the balance when it comes to the 1st of the month.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212719	Thank you and thank you for the question. I do not know if I will say that we will necessarily give the rich more money than those who do not have so much. Well, what this is all about is this 110 percent to a large extent. the daily subsistence allowance rate and its continuation throughout 2022. Earlier today, we also voted in favour of two other extensions which concern some of the most vulnerable citizens in the labour market. One of the things I have seen myself as chairman of the labour market committee in a municipality a little south of Copenhagen has been that in the municipalities you can actually connect the unemployed citizen with some relevant course, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which he has drawn up on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, for the excellent work he has done on this subject. So I just want to say that we are entering into some negotiations with some things, and I am quite sure that Enhedslisten will bring some other things, and that is where this has landed, and fortunately for that. That is what democracy does and the opportunities it creates.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212821	In fact, the evidence shows that it has to be relevant if we are to get people into work. I do not know whether the rapporteur has read the research there is about getting, for example. Somali women at work, and that this is about the relevance, that is to say that being offered real work and not just being put into meaningless activation and utility jobs is actually one of the things that works. It's really giving itself up. But am I to understand that Conservatives have changed tax policies so that they do not want to give more consideration to the richest with their tax policies, but will actually turn things around? Or how would I understand the answer from the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212902	We love to lighten the treasure, both at the top and at the bottom. We have always done so, so it is not so much because we do not want to lighten the tax; it was actually more to say that it is not because we will do nothing for those who belong to the lowest part of the pay hierarchy. I think we also made that clear when, for example, we... voted in favour of the two proposals earlier today and, incidentally, will also end up voting in favour of this because it is part of a larger agreement with which we would also like to create more jobs, because we also included some things in the overall agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212925	Thank you, sir. Mads Andersen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511212941	Thank you. In New Citizens we have been involved in some of the agreements that have been made, and there are also some of those we have chosen to be outside. This was one of them where we were sitting at the negotiating table, but in the end we thought that we could not do this. On the one hand, we can see now that this proposal is no longer about dealing with a Corona crisis, but that it is the policy of the Corona crisis that is being used as an opportunity to implement some of its party politics. Then you might ask whether it is not entirely fair, and yes, it is, but that is also why we sometimes act differently in relation to the packages that come, because it is no longer about dealing with the Corona crisis, but about parties that want to put their policies into practice, which is quite fair. This is something where you really just increase the daily allowance, and then you have an expectation that it makes more people move on to these courses so that they become skilled. But I think people out there will do that anyway, because every person will have an interest in getting into the trades and industries where there is work. So this is an unnecessary use of citizens' tax dollars, which could have been won without spending the money, which is why we cannot support it in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511213101	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments here either, and we have now come to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511213115	Thank you. We can't support this bill. We think it is rather strange something to divide the Danes into an A and B team, as you do when most Danes who want to take an education get more than DKK 6,000. in su, while, if you are over 30 years old and have gone free for a while, then you should be able to get over 21,000 kr., not in su, but in 110 percent. of the daily allowance rate. Well, I don't think it's possible to defend that some people have to study for $6,000, and other people can get $21,000. from the public sector. Just because they are members of a state-aided fund and have been unemployed for a period when they have received State aid, they must have 3.5 times as much training aid as those that are most people who are in need. We cannot support that, nor can we believe that there are people out there who say: of course I can earn some more money and have greater job security if I take a labour market education, but I will only do that if I can get 110 per cent. of the daily allowance rate while I take the training. I don't think the motivation is right in this case, and I actually don't think we should reward people for not having a motivation for taking an education. So we're voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511213254	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. I see no one from the Christian Democrats, so we go straight to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511213317	First of all, I would like to start by thanking you for the treatment that the draft law has received here today and for the comments that have been made. As several speakers have said, the draft law here is part of the implementation of the agreement on further improvements to the aid packages for not least the small entrepreneurs concluded on 9 February 2021 by the Government, the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party and the Alternative. With the bill, we extend the education promise with the right to 110 per cent. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts, and any other expenditure on technical and At the same time, we are changing the rules on redeployment into the benefit system so that a new and lower rate is not calculated as long as you are covered by the training promise. Since 1 August 2020, benefit recipients have been able to use the temporary scheme with the right to offer vocational training of 110%. daily subsistence allowance. The Court of First Instance shall apply, inter alia: Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentioned just before me if you are 30 years old and you are unskilled or skilled with out-of-date training and if the training is in areas where there is a need for labour. In winter we then chose to expand the scheme, so it also applies if you take a training as a sosu assistant or a green job. The aim is for more people to choose the skilled way in areas where we lack labour. Indeed, all the forecasts unanimously point to the fact that we are going to lack skilled labour in the future, including for the green transition. Fortunately, we can also see that more unemployed people are taking advantage of the opportunity. For the first time, it seems that the scheme has been successfully relaunched. We've just been put in where the shoe prints. Private economy can be a stumbling block to returning to school once you have been in the labour market, and I have no doubt that raising the daily allowance rate for individuals, businesses and society as a whole is a good investment. That is why it makes good sense for us to extend the scheme by one more year, not least in view of the fact that there are still many people who have lost their jobs during the corona crisis and who have not yet come into a new job. This summer, when we adopted the original bill on the right to education boost of 110%. In the case of unemployment benefit, it was a condition that 110 per cent were guaranteed. It was the carrot to return to the school bench. It has been found that the rules on re-employment in the benefit system automatically re-place after 1 year of employment as a pupil in the training promise, and in this context a new and lower rate of unemployment benefit is calculated on the basis of the pupil's salary. It has never been the intention of the rules to go down in the daily allowance rate during the training promise, and we must, of course, correct that. With the proposed change, we ensure that the benefit recipients in the training promise will not have a new and lower rate calculated while they are covered by the training promise. The individual unemployed in the training promise is thus guaranteed 110 per cent. daily subsistence allowances throughout the course of the training. I think that we have found a solution that solves the problem in a fine and balanced way, while at the same time extending as a whole a good system that seems to work and which helps to solve a structural problem in our labour market, namely a shortage of skilled labour. I look forward to the further examination of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511213712	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no brief remarks tonight. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I would suggest that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511213734	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 12 May 2021, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
