ParlaMint-DK_20210302130001	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302130008	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302130016	Thank you. The objective is absolutely clear: we must reopen Denmark as quickly as it is justifiable. And even though we are currently in a difficult place in the epidemic management, where we need more vaccines and better weather, the phasing out of restrictions in Denmark is underway. We're taking a calculated risk together. Four weeks ago, the little students returned to school. Yesterday the next step in reopening came into force, which concerns a large part of the shops, outdoor sports and culture, graduate students in North Jutland and West Jutland and a larger opening at Bornholm. At the same time, we are reinstating patients' rights in health care. In addition, a majority in the Danish Parliament agrees to look into whether pupils and pupils in post-schools and high schools in several parts of the country can return as early as 15 March. We're on a really difficult balance right now. The closure is damaging to everyone in our society, but we still have to act responsibly so that we do not put epidemic control at risk and are forced to shut down again. No one is served by this, either the Danish economy or the Danish population. Many companies are hard pressed. Last week, a broad majority in the Folketing continued the general compensation arrangements until the beginning of April, on 5 April. A broad majority has also improved the compensation for self-employed people. The aid has been increased to cover the costs of having employees and other costs which do not go away even if the turnover disappears. Thank you to the parties for both agreements. We look forward to a time when vaccines are our superweapon and also the entry ticket to freedom again. Therefore, the government is struggling hard to get more vaccines for Denmark. We are pushing for everything we can to bring the European Union up in gear. There is a need for a production boost. There is a need to adapt existing capacity and also to build new production capacity. In our view, this must be done in close cooperation with the industry. The Commission has set up a task force to identify, in the short run, any bottlenecks that may arise, but there is also a need for a vaccine response in the longer term. That is why we in Denmark have now established a collaboration with the life science industry, so that we can uncover the possibilities of having robust access to vaccines, and it is of course also in the light that one must see that I myself travel to Israel on Thursday with Austria's Chancellor, Sebastian Kurz. We need to discuss the possibilities of close cooperation on covid-19 and vaccines with Israel's Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. Moreover, this visit follows on from the good cooperation and dialogue that our three countries have had throughout the Corona crisis. In Denmark, we are very effective when it comes to getting the vaccines to work with those to be vaccinated. On Friday, the system was tested in relation to mass vaccination. 36,000 Danes were vaccinated in one day. It was the first rehearsal, and it went beyond all expectation. When we get enough vaccines, that is, the ketchup effect, we need to be able to vaccinate hundreds of thousands of Danes in private every single day. This week and next week I will meet with all of you party leaders to discuss the upcoming steps in the reopening of Denmark, the roll-out of vaccines and, of course, the long-term strategy for corona management in Denmark. I and the government will do ours to support broad cooperation. I have already had the first two meetings, and it is a good thing as far as broad cooperation is concerned, and so it is also the broad cooperation which has essentially characterised most of the corona management in Denmark, and I hope that will be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302130419	Thank you, Prime Minister. So we are now going ahead with questions from the party leaders, and it is the case that the questioner and the Prime Minister have up to two minutes' speaking time each, and then there are two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have one minute's speaking time per minute. Once again. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302130440	Thank you for that, President. The other day I read about the 14-year-old girl Andrea Hansen. She doesn't know me, and I don't know her, but I read her story in the paper. Andrea Hansen was once a happy and well-functioning student who was in the eighth grade. She's not anymore because the shut-down, the isolation and the being away from the comrades and being away from school have made her good mood and joy of life disappear. She said to her mother: " Mom, is it strange if you start thinking about jumping out the window? I'm not telling that story in any way to point the finger at anyone, because there's no one in here who didn't think this is horrible. I'm telling this story because there are a lot of kids and young people who are miserable here and now, and because of all the concerns we should have in this time and they're not so few, the concern for our children and young people should be one of the biggest. It certainly is for me. When we negotiated, or at least had to, a week ago, and discussed the gradual opening of Denmark, we in the Left suggested that all primary school pupils should return to school as a starting point except where the infection is extremely widespread. The government wouldn't. You didn't want that. Peace be to it. But you wouldn't even have bothered to figure out what it would mean for the development of the disease if you sent the students from 5th to 8th grade back to school. The government's own expert group has said: we could have figured that out, but nobody asked us to. Why didn't the government ask the experts to count on sending the students back to school?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302130629	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302130632	First of all, I would like to thank you for what appears to be a broad political support for the fact that it is not least children and young people who need to be focused on in the next phase of reopening. Now we have jointly decided to get the graduates back and even more on Bornholm, and the little ones already came back to school four weeks ago. But I really think it is quite fantastic that such a wide range of parliamentary parties have their focus on children and young people. There is no doubt that with regard to problems of dissatisfaction, whether mentally or mentally, due to the absence of friends, the absence of structure in everyday life, or it is physical health that our children and young people are simply moving too little. So getting all the kids back to school would be really, really good. And I also hope that this will form the basis for the next decisions that we have to take in terms of reopening. On the question of why there has been reckoned, and what the consequences are, I can say that, as the questioner knows, there is a group of experts who has given an order in relation to the reopening, and the smallest children came first. That's why they got to school first. And then some of the oldest children follow. It is, after all, a balance of some kind, that is hardcore economy, and that is why the retail trade has been allowed to open, and well-being and the well-being of families. That's why some kids have come to school. But summa summarum: The children need to go to school, the parents need to be allowed to concentrate on their work, and therefore it would be perfectly natural in my view that with the next steps, even more children and young people have to go back to school.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302130807	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302130809	Thank you. That is simply not what I asked for at all. What I was asking was why haven't the calculations been made in 5th to 8th grade? If the answer, as I interpret it, is that it was because there was no room for it, then it is nevertheless an impressive predictability that you have when you know in advance what the calculations you order will show. Let it go. Both the human costs and the financial costs of this are very, very large. Corona is a lot about health, but health is also about more than corona. It's also about our well-being. And honestly, every single day counts in this. The Danes need a perspective, we need a light at the end of the tunnel, and we need to know that it will be all right. We need to know that each of us is thought of, and we need to know that at some point it will also be my turn. That is why I am somewhat incomprehensible about the fact that the government is dragging this out of hand. Why do the parties over two weeks have to meet and discuss this? I am quite sure that my colleagues around me are ready to run day and night. We've shown that all the way through, and I'm ready for that anyway. So will the Prime Minister not be helping to speed up these negotiations so that we can make a common plan now? It's not about the pace of rollout, it's about the pace of coming up with a perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302130931	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302130933	First, I would like to say to the questioner when he says that we need to know that everything is going to be okay, that things are going to be okay. We're closer than we've been for a really, really long time. It is going well to roll the vaccines out in Denmark, spring is coming, and we've got better treatment of covid-19. It seems that a lot of Danes also support testing more often, both in order to return to school, but also when we see local outbursts such as now in Kolding and elsewhere. So we're heading for brighter times. And in fact, the message we can give together is that it is still a difficult time here at the end of the winter and into the spring, but there will be a tipping point shortly, and then we will be quite another place. I very much agree: let us jointly create a long-term reopening plan. Last week we received criticism that things were going too fast and now we are being criticised for the slow progress that has been made, but let us do so at the rate we can agree on. And if what the words today mean is that we would like to have a broad agreement on a long-term reopening of Denmark, it would not only be good for the control of the epidemic, but it would also be very good for the Danes, so you know what you have to do well with • if everything goes as we assume, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131047	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131049	It was again an answer to something that could probably have been interesting, if I had asked about it I didn't. But what was criticised last week was not that it went too fast it was that we were asked to leave. Now we're not going anywhere. I went to a meeting with the PM yesterday. That was great. I have submitted a plan, and then there is something to talk about with the other party leaders, and I think that is a good thing. In that plan, the Left proposes that we can reopen society once everyone over 50 years of age and the vulnerable groups have been offered the vaccine and have been vaccinated. It is on purpose that I say that you have been offered the vaccine... it has caused some misunderstandings around here. In other words, it is clear that it is a prerequisite for this opening up that we all want, at whatever rate we want it to be able to manage the infection in society. The Prime Minister himself mentions one of the places that is problematic • we've seen it in Ishøj, we've seen it in Kolding, and now we've seen it in Vollsmose and I have to say that the developments we see there cause me deep concern. It's like the infection in those places is getting out of control, and it's gonna slow down the reopening of all the people in this country if they don't fight and fight hard and fight now on this. Will the Prime Minister tell us why the government hasn't shut down any more in Vollsmose since the increase in infection is so explosive in recent times? Well, it was possible for the government to cancel people's weddings at 24 hours' notice, so why don't you do something in Vollsmose?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131217	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131218	Thank you for that question too. In all due respect, I do not think I can confine myself to meeting the leader of the Left, although the leader of the Left is very important, including for the reopening. Now I would like to discuss it with all the parties of the Folketing. And just as the Left presents its ideas, I am quite sure that this will also apply to the other parties. I would like to have all the views on the table. I think it is right to focus on how we can quickly and effectively shut down local areas if there is a lot of infection. This applies at local level, at institutional level, but also in individual urban areas. And that is why I think we should discuss very quickly whether the authorities lack any tools and that if, for example, there is an area where not everyone will be tested, then those who will not be tested will actually be tested anyway. I would like to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131308	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. The next party leader is sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131335	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introduction. We often pride ourselves on the fact that in Denmark we have managed better through the Corona crisis than so many other countries, because we have a great deal of trust in each other because we respect the authorities and believe in authorities etc. We must also say that is what has been going on throughout, perhaps with the exception of what Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen referred to some immigrant-heavy areas where we have some particular challenges. But it is actually against this background that I would like to ask the Prime Minister if she regrets the way the government has handled things lately. The last measurement we saw yesterday, from Megafon, shows that the support for the restrictions, that is, the proportion which believes we have an appropriate number of restrictions, has fallen from 53 per cent. to 37 per cent. So I think that for the first time now there is not a majority of the population supporting the level of restrictions that the government is imposing right now. We also have the latest report from HOPE, which is the institute that goes in and measures the behaviour of the Danes, which shows that the behaviour is changing. Your assessment is that it changes especially when, in the political system, we cannot unite on the recommendations that are necessary. The Prime Minister will have to deal in this Question Time, which is the first after we negotiated or had a talk on Tuesday, with what actually happened on Tuesday, when all the bourgeois parties were asked to disconnect from the meeting. Were we asked to disconnect after negotiations? No, we were when we presented our wishes. We in the Danish People's Party received no reflection from the government at all on our wishes. It was, whether it was about school children, where we wanted more municipalities opened, so that more schoolchildren could experience coming back and meeting their teachers and their comrades; it was, whether we asked for an assessment, whether high schools and post-schools could be made into infectious bubbles, which would make them able to come back; and whether or not we asked if Georg Stage could get out to sail again. We didn't get a response and a response to anyone. Has the Prime Minister now, with the figures I'm showing, in relation to the support for the restrictions, regretted that the government handled this like this last week?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131550	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131552	I would like to say that, in general terms, I agree with the basic analysis, namely that one of the reasons why Denmark has relatively managed well through this crisis is that we basically trust each other. And not only do we trust each other, but we also trust that others are doing what they can to get Denmark through the crisis. I mean, things are connected. It is true that, from an international point of view, our confidence in the authorities is very, very great, while it screechs a little more when it comes to politicians, and it has been for quite a number of years, unfortunately for us. We can also see it now as regards the roll-out of vaccines, namely that Denmark can go and become one of the countries in the world where the majority of people are vaccinated, because we dare to trust that when a vaccine is approved, it is also good enough, as it is. So I very much agree with the basic analysis. By the way, I think that's right, too, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that the more we work together at Christiansborg, the easier the Danes have to trust the political decisions, and that is whether it is about corona or so much else. That is why I myself have never been a great supporter of block policy, nor am I in favour of going to war, for example, with a very slender majority on behalf of Denmark, or of making municipal reforms for Denmark with a slender majority, or of dealing with corona with a slender majority. I would always like to seek broad political agreements, both because of the stability it represents, it can be said, but also because different parties often bring different things to the negotiating table. If there is something that has not been as good as possible in the negotiations that have taken place last week, I think we should jointly correct it, because I agree with the basic analysis: the more we work together here, the greater the confidence the Danes have in Christiansborg as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131740	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131741	But can the Prime Minister think of me sitting back with the feeling that this is about the government just trying to run this thing on its own and that it's actually a little uncomfortable to involve the parliamentary parties? Now it is very low-practical, but I am asking you on Tuesday at the meeting about these school ships, i.e. among other things. Georg Stage, get to sail out with 63 students and 10 crew members in an infectious bubble out at sea, but I don't even get an answer as to whether it's possible or not. The government will not tell at the meeting whether it is a good idea or a bad idea whether it is feasible or not. The day before yesterday, I can suddenly see that the government announces that the school ships must be allowed to sail. That's great, but why on earth couldn't it be a talk we'd had last week? We asked about it, but we couldn't get answers. At the beginning of January we ask this government, even in writing, if we can't get calculated, if post-schools and colleges can be infection-free bubbles, where the health profession is advisable to bring the students back with negative tests, and then they can come in and receive learning, and all sorts of others can be tested twice a week and something like that. We did not get it calculated; the government did not want it calculated. Now I have understood from some other people involved in what took place last week that it will probably be calculated in March. But we asked for it at the beginning of January.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131852	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131854	Of course, the Folketing must have answers to its questions, and it does not matter whether they are formally placed in the Parliamentary Chamber, in a committee, whether they are part of a negotiation process or in the ongoing dialogue between the government and the Folketing, for example in the conciliation circle. That is beyond question. This is important to clarify, but the other thing that lies in the question is whether the government should go around with such an inherent desire to bear sole responsibility for getting Denmark through this crisis. Why on earth should a government have the desire, the need or the demand? This is the biggest crisis since World War II. Denmark has not been in such a difficult situation at any time, either during the life of the author or the answerer. The government has only one interest, and that is that there is as broad a cooperation as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131943	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302131944	But why doesn't the government do that? Well, if the government says it's in the government's interest, why do you act the way you do? Why can I give you the examples I can give you today? Last Tuesday I attended a meeting online where I sat down in my office. How come when I asked questions about our priorities, I didn't even get an answer from the government as to whether the government thought it was a good idea or a bad idea? I was just asked to log off from the meeting. Now the Prime Minister stands in question time today and says that the government has no interest in anything but trying to bring as many people as possible, because she agrees that it is important in relation to the way the Danes act in this corona crisis, which is, indeed, the biggest crisis we face in our generation. Well, she agrees with it, but you still act like this. I can give you examples of things we ask for that are not coming and questions we want to raise that cannot be raised. Now we ask about school pupils because we think that the well-being of children and young people is really challenged in this time. Yes, now there is some series of meetings over 10-12 days with some party leaders, and then we all wait in anticipation for the Prime Minister to report out what that has given rise to. And then we should all be pleased that perhaps there is something at the end of the process that the Prime Minister has decided to open, and then we say gladly: thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302132052	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302132054	Maybe we just need to get some facts in place after all. The government has concluded 102 political agreements since the government took office. Radicals are the party that is involved in most of the agreements, namely the whole 98, and the Danish People's Party is involved in 70 political agreements out of 102 political agreements that are not related to corona. The government has concluded 74 political agreements on covid-19 since March. So it's in less than a year. 71 of the 74 agreements are broad and concluded across the political centre. There have been changing parties, and here too the Radical Left ridge jumper has been involved in 74 out of 74 agreements. SF is included in 68 out of 74 agreements, and the Danish People's Party is included in 47 agreements. In all modesty, this Parliament has never, I think, made so many appointments in such a short space of time across the middle of politics. We must, of course, stick to that, also in connection with the continued reopening of Denmark, and by this I continue to offer an invitation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302132201	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. I think the napkins to spritze are right back there. Yes, they do. They're gonna slide down. The next question to be asked is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr of the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302132223	Thank you. I find it hard to get up in the morning and get dressed. I don't feel like I'm worth anything. Do I even have any friends left? I'm afraid to go out between people. That's how kids and kids write to me these days. When we stood here a year ago, we were happily ignorant of what was expected of us. Few had imagined that we would have to spend a year in the sign of the epidemic, and few even imagined that we could face a health crisis of these dimensions. But we will also face a mental health crisis. I would actually go that far in describing the challenges we face with children and young people. We have been through two shutdowns, Danish economy has been given a serious stomach breather, and a lot of people in Denmark are having a difficult time both financially, but also in relation to distrust. Children who have never shown any signs of dissatisfaction before are having a hard time. So there is no doubt that our most important task as Parliament, of course, is to fight the corona together and to ensure that it does not spread in our society and ensure that our health system does not collapse. We all agree on that. For me, however, there is no doubt that the second most important task facing us is to ensure that the health crisis does not seriously develop into a mental health crisis. Danish psychologists are experiencing an explosive increase in corona-related anxiety, psychiatric emergency doctors have called out, waiting lists on psychological assistance are towering, so long that it takes 3 months from a reference to your death anxiety, to help, or with an increasing depression, so that you can talk to someone about it. Well, we can't get the pandemic to go away, we can't magicize covid-19 away, nor can we open up faster than we need, but we can do something to avoid the explosion in anxiety, depression and misfortune. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister will be joining us as the Danish Psychologist Association proposes to give more psychologists the number and allow the psychologists in the scheme to do more than we have seen in relation to free psychological assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302132442	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302132445	There is no doubt that it comes with a huge price to get through a global pandemic and that the mental distrust, perhaps especially among children and young people, because the structure of everyday life is lacking, is serious. That is beyond question. It is probably also beyond doubt that, if we had not had an epidemic control and had gone wrong, here in the Folketing, we could have been forced to make even more far-reaching decisions than those we have had to make. Because it is true that a number of children have been taught at home over the past year, but that we have not had a curfew in Denmark, for example. So, in other countries, also comparable countries, there have been times when you have not had to move away from your apartment at all. I believe that it has had even more negative consequences than what has been experienced in Denmark, because at no time has it been impossible to meet a good friend or a friend or an adult who has been able to help you. So it is true that decommissioning has costs, but my bid is that it could have been worse if we had lost the epidemic control and then perhaps should have done an even bigger shutdown. Can I also say, following on from this, that it is a good thing that we are focusing in a question time like this on the challenges that are? That is part of the task, and I also hope that we can stand together in the Folketing to send the message to our children and young people that we will do this. We have to go through it, because there is no alternative to not dealing with the epidemic, as the SF President also says. Should we do more in the field of psychology? Well, I don't reject any good ideas. In these discussions I always have my doubts as to whether psychologists are the solution to so much that psychologists are often allowed to appear as a solution to. But if it is part of the solution, I will certainly not reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302132632	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302132634	I think that part of the solution is what we did last week, namely just as quietly to open up a little more, but it cannot stand alone. We are, of course, following the wise instructions of this professional reference group, red and blue, etc., and hopefully we will open up to primary school with the next step. I am glad that I also hear both the Left and the Danish People's Party emphasise this, and I would guess that my other colleagues will then also emphasise it here. After all, it is a good step and an important step, also important for the SF, also that we get the opening of the post-schools and the high schools, most likely on 15 March. But in addition to that and in addition to talking about that it could have been much worse elsewhere because it has been there is also the need for you to see a period of time ahead of you and know that if you are just holding out a little longer, then there are some options. We also have to do that in here, in addition to addressing the challenges, because if we do not address the challenges, we will not solve them either. And there's a problem with that 37 percent. several are being referred to anxiety treatment at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302132748	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302132750	Yes, it is a problem and we must deal with it; we must deal with it politically, but we must also do it as people in a society. I do not believe that we will solve the problems caused by the Corona alone with political solutions. Each of us has to do what I experienced a lot of people were good at, perhaps especially in the first chapter of the shutdown of Denmark, i.e. back in the spring, and remember to take care of each other. I think we must also encourage that we all do this now. The perspective is important, there is no doubt whatsoever about that, and I think we are in the process of giving it. The young children have been back in school for four weeks now. In part of the country, the oldest students have returned, and on Bornholm it is even more. We have an agreement, and thank you for that, that we will hopefully be able to send even more children and young people back to school as early as 15 March. It can be said that the group that has not yet been in play is 5th to 8th grade and the youngest in upper secondary education. I believe that we should look together to see if we can also get some of them to school soon. Well, maybe they can't go to school all the time, maybe they can't even get it 50 percent. of the time, but perhaps we are being there where just one day left in school with a lunch bag and a school bag and contact with teachers and comrades means more than it has done in the past in the epidemic. So we are willing to discuss everything and we agree that we should have children and young people go back to school.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302132910	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302132912	But that is really what is part of the solution. These are small groups, and that is that we have people in very clearly defined groups, so when they get sick, we know how to detect and isolate infection. And the isolation instrument is, in fact, what we need to get more in touch with the further control of epidemics, that is, that people are actually isolated when they are close contacts, that we are aware of where people have been and that we come back to the original source of infection and not just call for close contacts in the detection of infection. However, there is much more we can do, there is absolutely no doubt about that, and one of the points raised by the Prime Minister in his introduction is the issue of vaccine production. I think that is really interesting, and one of the things we talked about at the beginning of the epidemic was, in fact, what we can do on the Danish side. Now I have noticed that some Danish pharmaceutical companies have been out to say that they can actually produce the vaccine. Here we are so challenged by the fact that some of those who originally produced the vaccine or developed it have the patent on it. Are there not some situations, some very special situations where emergency law can be discussed in relation to patents and whether no one, apart from those who have developed what should be allowed to produce vaccines and even with public funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133028	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133029	Yes, indeed there is. We are in an emergency situation globally now, and when we talk vaccines, we cannot simply fight for vaccines for the Danish population. It is clear that this is the main task for, I think, both the Folketing and the government, but we must ensure enough vaccines to re-vaccine our population, perhaps several times and perhaps over a number of years. We must have the people of Europe vaccinated, the neighbourhoods, but Europe also has a special responsibility in Africa, and if Europe does not manage to buy and produce more vaccines, some others go in and vaccinate those parts of the world that cannot afford vaccines themselves. So we also need to scale up geopolitically.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133129	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. The next party leader to ask questions to the Prime Minister is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133146	Thank you. I also believe that one of the things that should give us hope is that we can see that politicians also act on the other major challenges, that we do not become apathetic, that it does not also sit down here. At least that's how I feel. What can disillusion me is if we do not act on some of the other huge challenges we face. Even though we are a small country, the difference is sometimes cultivated something. Not least, there has been such a special story about Jutland to the capital, and when we talk about climate, the contrast between country and city is sometimes used a little conveniently as an excuse for standstill, and for me it is some of the disillusionment, but it is silly. Well, there's a difference between country and city, of course there is. But should we cultivate it as a contradiction or an obstacle? For why shouldn't the Danes in the countryside also want to drive an electric car or have cheaper green electricity and make it cheaper to live green and more expensive to consume black? I'm having a little trouble seeing why it shouldn't be like that. It is as if that division has also found its way into the negotiating room in the climate negotiations on agriculture. I think that is a pity, because it does not have to be the case that you say either steak or plants. For us it is so much a boat and, just as we can be both a leading foodation and green at the same time. Actually, I don't think we're gonna make any progress unless we do both if we want to. Around us in Denmark, new ways of growing and producing food are being invested and researched on life, and there are really, really, many opportunities. Now you can in some places make steaks out of air from the proteins that can be pulled out of CO2 So my question is: Now that the government's climate action has been judged as foot-to-foot, for it was last week, even in the 2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133426	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133428	Sir. Søren Pape looked terrified at the view of steaks made of air. So if we are to have a broad agreement, it should also involve the Conservative People's Party, so perhaps we need to proceed a little more cautiously with how modern things are going to be. There is a lot going on with food production, and that is very interesting. We have an amazing food cluster. We're really good at research. This is, moreover, one of the areas we are looking for now in a business initiative in the United States after we have a new American administration. I myself had the opportunity to speak to Vice-President Kamala Harris last Friday, who sees Denmark as one of the countries that really can do something about the whole green transition, and food is really crucial. I do not wish to conclude on the agricultural negotiations. I would rather enter into these negotiations with an open mind, and I think it is wise that this time instead of starting in what often becomes the trench war, which I think Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen actually described very well, we should start somewhere else, namely by having a joint analysis and making the necessary decisions. This also applies, of course, to CO2 2 so I think that we are landing in exactly the right place together, but I think that the method of progress we have chosen actually has something to do with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133615	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133617	I do not hear a rejection of a CO2 but it is a good step, and I do not think one can become too modern. You can both be modern and hold on to your steak no matter what it has to be made of, and I think we have to do both, because we are a little busy. So when I can't get a concrete promise of a CO2 So, in the current negotiations, we will be helping to get investment in a real growth track for plant-based foods, so that we continue to develop Denmark as the leading food ration and at the same time reduce CO2 That is what we have done with, for example. wind, e.g. with traditional foods in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133712	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133714	Yes, I think I dare say yes to that on an entirely standing basis, because this is where we are going. We must find a way in which we do not compromise with our climate ambitions, even on behalf of agriculture, and do not compromise with our desire to continue to have a high level of employment. This is also part of a whole Denmark. A great many of the people who are employed either directly in agriculture or in the incredibly many accompanying occupations are living outside the big cities. That is why there is a potential land-by-conflict unless you do it right and have all the different considerations taken into account. With growth being said, we all wake up and think: if we can bring a real growth path into these negotiations, that will be only good. In other words, we should not be mistaken about the fact that a large part of Denmark's wealth is linked to our agricultural production, and we must now be able to hold on to this, while at the same time making it as green as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133813	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133815	Thank you. In the case of Green Growth, I do not think that we can go too fast or too modern, we actually need to get first, as we did in other areas of the green transition, otherwise some others will overtake us. The last question is this: I really wanted to ask about the width of the middle of the reopening negotiations, and I have heard the Prime Minister fully agree, so I am burning in with another question, because I have been thinking a lot about it over the last few days, namely the children in the Syrian camps. There has been a fire in one camp, there are children who have died and if those children are not going home, and that is not the intention of the government, what does the Prime Minister really intend to do with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133901	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302133903	First of all, it is a deeply unhappy situation that there are people who have lived in Denmark who have turned their backs on Denmark and chose to travel to a conflict area, join the caliphate Islamic State, oppose everything Denmark stands for by democracy and freedoms, maybe even have fought directly against us and now want to get help for their children. This is a deeply unhappy situation for the children. The parents have made a completely active choice, and in my view they no longer have anything to do with Denmark, it is not their home they have left us, and I wish that they never return, because they no longer have anything to do with Denmark. There are some children who have come into contact and with whom, of course, we have a responsibility. What is our dilemma, and we might as well be honest about that, by helping some children to Denmark, is that for some children it means that their mother or father, who is part of the Islamic State or has been, also comes along. We do not want that because these people do not belong in Denmark. But if we can help the children in some way, even better than today, where they are, we would of course like to be part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134016	Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to Mrs Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. The next party leader is Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134032	The huge debate over these weeks is, of course, about the reopening of our society, and there is no doubt that decommissioning has very serious negative consequences. With us in the Enhedslisten, there is no doubt, as I am fortunately also hearing from several people today, that children and young people are only in the queue when it comes to returning. Well, right now we're seeing school students who almost feel chained to the computer while they can see their younger siblings going to school. We are experiencing very, very unhappy afterschool students and seeing the vocational school students, who I think are enormously overlooked in this debate, should learn to be a craftsman over the computer. Of course, they're the ones who have to go back first. And the redundant workers and the small self-employed, who are in industries that cannot open right now, also deserve better help and better relief packages. I think that is important to say here today because it is a very big and important discussion that we are in the middle of. That's the home perspective. But I would also like now, when the Prime Minister goes to Israel in a moment, to touch on that discussion about the purchase of vaccines from Israel. Because, in a situation where many of the Palestinians have not been vaccinated, it is very important for me to say today that, according to the United Nations, the Israeli Government is responsible for the vaccination of Palestinians in the occupied territories, and everything else is simply unacceptable. That is why my question will also be today: will the Prime Minister say clearly to the Prime Minister of Israel that he is responsible for the Palestinians in the occupied territories being vaccinated before they start selling vaccines to other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134237	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134239	Thank you for bringing the vocational school students into the Assembly Hall. I think they are getting far too little attention. It is not because it has to be a competition between different groups, but I can see that there are some groups of pupils who receive a great deal of attention, and then we have a large group of vocational school pupils who are hardly ever mentioned. And they are just as important a part of Denmark's future and an equally important part of the generation of children and young people as all sorts of others who may have some who are better at shouting for themselves. So thank you for bringing them into the Assembly Hall today. We agree in the circle of political parties that vocational schools must also be given our attention in relation to possible further reopening. It is true, then, that it is interesting that there is a broad political majority in favour of focusing on children and young people, because one might as well have been focusing on some other areas of society that have an immediate higher impact than children and young people have. So also thanks to Enhedslisten for going into the work. Then there is the question of the journey to Israel. I have to say that what is the primary objective of the journey that Sebastian Kurz from Austria and I are embarking on on Thursday is to create a long-term production plan, that is, capacity building with Israel. That's what's the primary aim. I don't expect to be able to fill the hold with vaccines when I leave Israel on Thursday. So it is a long-term plan to get production capacity up. On the question of whether we in Denmark should refrain from doing so if we are given the opportunity to buy some vaccines from different countries, because there are others who also need the vaccines, I would generally say no. So, I believe that my primary task here and now is to fight to get vaccines into Denmark to get the Danish population vaccinated while, of course, we are part of the programmes that are jointly and severally in relation to getting the vaccines out. I also have to say that if we do not scale up production capacity much more than is the case today, we will not be able to help the poorest areas of this world, regardless of whether it is in the Middle East, Africa or South America. It is the capacity that is the most important thing to get up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134454	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134456	Of course, we need to have increased vaccine production. It goes without saying, and I am really glad that we are now opening up a discussion about whether we can do it in the public hands in one way or another. In the Enhedslisten we very much want it to be in a joint Nordic cooperation. But I have to say that I really hope that the Prime Minister will take a message to the Prime Minister of Israel that he should vaccinate the Palestinian people. I would also like to touch briefly on the climate, because last Friday there was a report from the Climate Council, which was a relatively sharp criticism of the climate action that has been in the Folketing. Well, the message was clear: if we continue along the same track, we will not reach our climate target by 2030. It is of course extremely important that we go ahead and show the way and that we live up to our own legislation, so I would like to ask: does the Prime Minister agree with me that it is a major problem both for the climate and for the government that Denmark is not on the right path right now to reach the climate target by 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134558	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134601	I would only be able to answer yes to that question if I agreed that we are not on the right track and I simply do not agree with that analysis or assessment. In my view, we have achieved great victories in quite a short period of time thanks to the cooperation with, not least, the author's party. This applies to two financial law negotiations, it applies to major climate agreements, which for many agreements have in common that we have both reduced CO2 I think we are going to do the same in the agricultural sector both to ensure a CO2 So, basically, I do not agree that we are not on the right path. The Climate Council alone must focus on climate. The rest of us must also focus on some other things, namely the concern for employment, i.e. that the Danes have a job to stand up to every day; that the country is not split; that our economy can keep up; that Danish business has competitiveness. And I really think that we in the Folketing are quite good at having all the elements on the table when we then create some, I think, quite fine results. But we're not done yet, it goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134722	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134725	There is no doubt that we have produced good results together in the Folketing, and that is really important, but the Climate Council says it clearly: if we do not do much more, we simply do not achieve our goal. They also say in the report that the government relies too much on unsafe technology solutions, where we do not know if it will be ready by 2030. One might say that the government has chosen to hope for technology, but a wise woman said last year that hope is not a strategy, that action is needed. I think that is also true of the climate area. The Climate Council says that if we are to be well on our way to achieving the target by 2030, we must set a milestone in 2025 at a minimum of 50% reduction in our climate gas emissions. The experts recommend it, and there is a majority in the Folketing if the government will. Then the government is ready to follow the recommendations and make a milestone in 2025 at a minimum of 50%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134819	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134821	First of all, I would like to say that investing in technology, science and research is a great deal of hope, but in my view we cannot translate that into working with hope as a strategy. Well, what saves us from corona right now is technology and research and science. It's the vaccine. And one of the reasons why Denmark is so advanced today with the green transition is because of the investments made by our predecessors, for example in renewable energy, in the water sector and other important green strength positions. So I actually believe that Denmark, which is a leading country on green conversion, is the proof that you can both make decisions immediately, which has a positive impact, but that you have also been able to make the necessary investments over generations. And I think we should keep doing that. That's my hope, too, to end with that word. After all, we have to set a figure for 2025, and there is political debate on this, and I hope that there too, of course, will be a good result. I think we're gonna get that, too. But so, the Climate Council is not a censor or an overjudge, it is a council that must guide both government and parliament, in terms of how we reach the goal by 2030. And we have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134935	Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. The next party leader to speak is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302134947	How does it make sense that in Thisted, where the infection is at the level of Copenhagen, you can go to post-school, but on Samsø, where there is no infection, you should not open the post-school? How does it make sense that the graduate students in Vordingborg, where the infection is unusually low, are not allowed to return to primary school, but in Aalborg, where the infection is more than nine times higher than in Vordingborg, the graduate students are allowed to return? How does it make sense that a shop of 4,999 m2 has to let 250 customers in, but a store of 2 m2 has to let 20 customers in? How does it make sense that we can all go to the zoo, but 500 people cannot distribute in the parking lot where there are 38,000 seats? I am glad that more has been opened up for Denmark. We can thank the Danes for this, who have managed to keep their distance, scrub off and wear muzzles. But we also experience hard-pressed entrepreneurs, mentally weary Danes and young people who are kept in secrecy when guidelines do not make sense. So will the Prime Minister help to patch up the gaps in the narrow opening agreement that you have made today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302135112	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302135113	I share the pleasure that we are now well under way with phase two in the reopening of Denmark. First we had the young children in school, and yesterday we had some decisive steps in relation to the retail trade, i.e. the small shops, part of the graduates, outdoor sports and outdoor cultural life. Let's start with what's the logic of the corona management, then we can wait with what's illogical, because there's a lot of that. What is logical, of course, is that it is not enough to focus alone on whether everyone in the Parliament is complying with all the restrictions, whether we are doing it at home, and whether we are doing it at the individual hairdresser. Because we know that overall social activity is what determines how much infection there is at a given time. And there's the British mutation a new player. It's an incredible slave player we've got in, because it's more contagious. We know that, and it is potentially also more dangerous. Therefore, we cannot do a decommissioning or a reopening that is based on the fact that each institution, individual economic operators, or individual family, is doing everything they have to, because if we opened up much or completely, the total social activity would increase too much at the time we are in the epidemic because we have not vaccinated enough people. That is the logic. Can one then make a re-opening that is completely 100 percent logical, and do we avoid at any time when you can find two that you can run for each other, and where you can say: Why can she, and why can't he? No, you can't. I've given up on the fact that you can make a complete logic. What I have not given up on, however, is to have epidemic control. For what I am rightly concerned about is that our impatience, because of how painful decommissioning is for many people, and I fully recognise this, runs out at a time when we have not vaccinated enough yet and when the season is still not with us, and therefore we are losing epidemic control, with the risk that we will then have to make a harder shut down. I'd really, really like to avoid that. I would actually like to go where we should not shut Denmark down again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302135313	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302135315	I think that's something we all share. Doesn't the Prime Minister have any concern that, because we are very careful, it has worst case calculations and the seasonal effect didn't count into what we got last week... is what suddenly makes the Danes lose patience? If you think that too little is happening and that you cannot understand the logic of it, it is precisely that we can risk people saying: then it doesn't matter. It is well known that it is not, but people can also get to a point where they say: why are we not doing this? I agree that contact is what is contagious. But if there's virtually no infected, it doesn't give any more infected people. I think that is what you do not understand: when many municipalities have very low levels of infection, you cannot do anything more there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302135404	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302135406	In the context of the long-term reopening on which I hope for a broad agreement, I would very much like to help to see whether we can do even more locally and regionally. I had the opportunity to discuss it with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl earlier today, for it is also a great wish for the Danish People's Party. And now we're doing it. After all, we are in the process of re-opening Denmark regionally with regard to pupils and, as far as Bornholm is concerned, in a week or two it is probably two more than a week we are wiser on how things have gone, and then we will certainly be able to do even more regionally, taking into account both where the infection is low, but in fact also taking into account that, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen mentioned earlier, namely that when the infection rises somewhere, we must be able to shut down quickly. The British mutation is still gone what's teasing us, and I know that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has also been told by the experts that even if we had continued the decommissioning we have been through the winter over, the infection would still increase because of the British mutation. So, Finland has just chosen to shut down in, I think, 3 weeks it's a general shutdown and Norway has the highest infection rate for a long, long time from a lower starting point than us; I think they almost overtake us in these days in daily numbers infected. It shows how dangerous the British mutation is. So it is possible that there are some who are leaving the good behavior right now and turning against the restrictions and the government, but I can only appeal and say that until we have vaccinated more, we will still have to hold on to some restrictions and our good behaviour each.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302135535	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302135537	Everyone is in favour of restrictions. The art is simply to find out how it should be done and how many there should be. In my last question I would like to look at the negotiations that I can understand now taking place bilaterally, where the parties one and one come in for a discussion with the Prime Minister, and it is always good to have some discussions. I had thought that we would now have one big meeting, where all the parties were gathered at the beginning of this week, either yesterday or today, and then a lot of input came, and the Prime Minister said something, and then we could move on. Now you choose a model where it takes two weeks just to talk to us. I just want to ask, does that mean nothing happens in those two weeks? I mean, does that mean nothing's gonna be calculated? When, for example, you're gonna have to do something like this... from German studies can see that there is virtually no infection associated with the opening of the hairdressers, is one counting on it? Are you counting on the Norwegian traffic light model, which means that you can see more centrally that children can actually go to school if there is much local control of the infection? If calculations are only to be started after 14 days, when we can discuss things with each other, then it will certainly be a long process. So my question is really just: how much is being calculated and are the calculations on e.g. The two examples I give here have been set in motion?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302135649	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302135651	Fortunately, nothing is ever going to happen. We are in the process of dealing with a global pandemic and spend almost all of our waking time every 24 hours getting Denmark safely through this. One can always discuss how to organise the process, and the good thing is that one can probably criticise it all. I think it is good that, at the moment, we have the opportunity to sit down with each other and get into depth with the longer-term management of the corona, because we know that things will be quite different when we reach April-May and several Danes will be vaccinated. After all, a political agreement has been drawn up for the month of March. It has been drawn up which also states that, if possible, further openings will have to be opened as early as 15 March. This applies to graduate students and folk high school pupils, and this is potentially also true for several islands, as is the case for several graduate students. An agreement has already been made on this. The problem of raining, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen well, because we've been through that a lot of times is that we have to see what the consequence is of the reopening that is going on and it started only yesterday. And that means that the infection caused by the oldest pupils, sport and retail trade cannot be measured yet, and that is why we need to go a little further to see what the consequence is of the reopening that we are already doing. But, of course, we're in full swing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302135807	Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to Søren Pape Poulsen. Søren Pape Poulsen President is sure that I do not have an additional question?). I'm quite sure there's a lot of control over it, but well tried. The next question is ready, and this is the party leader of the New Citizens' Party, Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go, three rounds.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302135829	Thank you. Children sit at home from school in the third month, too many mistrust. The number of children and adolescents who are self-harming or have eating disorders has increased sharply during corona. The companies have glowing accounts, the self-employed look into bankruptcies and deficits, but despite the harsh, obvious and negative consequences of the decommissioning, it has not even been calculated what the contagious effect of allowing the 5th to 8th classes to return to school would be or by letting the hairdressers reopen. The Minister for Health says, and I quote: 'It has been calculated on what has come from experts, well-being experts, economists and neurologists. They've said, this order right over here, we're going to have to figure it out. ▪ Health rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Rasmus-Horn Langhoff, on the radio the other day, said that it is the independent authority that decides what to count on. However, according to Jes Søgaard, a professor and member of the expert group, the independent authority, it is not the whole truth. He says, and I quote: "We said to the politicians that if you want, you can turn it around. This isn't cut into scientific granite. ▪ Another member of the expert group, Professor Michael Svarer, says that you can relax more restrictions and initiate calculations on several things at the same time. Will the PM answer who's right? Is it the Social Democracy, or is it the authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140006	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140010	Well, hopefully, both authorities and calculators and the Social Democrats have seen this across the board. That is absolutely right: nothing has been cut in granite, and everyone knows that. Well, there's no exact science to lean on. Everyone here in the Danish Parliament also knows that the calculations that the modeling group brings to the Danish Parliament and to the government are an estimate with a lot of assumptions and reservations. The world and reality rarely move exactly as provided on a piece of paper. That doesn't change the fact that the Folketing back in time had a very great desire that it should be independent experts who should make a recommendation for a sequence of reopening. And as far as possible, we are trying to apply it, including by the government. And I am also on the goal of ensuring that in the gradual reopening that we are in the process of being in Denmark and that I think there is reason to rejoice over, not only do we look to well-being. We are also divided into economics. And it is good that we have an eye on both elements, that we are not just focusing on the economy. For if only that were done, we would risk that many children and young people would fall quite far behind in the queue, because there would immediately be more economy by opening up parts of the economy that are not open, and not the children. And there I think it is actually quite strong that we in the Folketing agree that we have an eye on both GDP and economy and thus employment, but also on well-being in general. So you could say that this is the history of why it is this order that is now elected by a majority of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140149	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140151	That was once again a non-answer. So, the Minister for Health says one thing, and the Social Democrat rapporteur says something similar, and the authorities say something else, namely that you could count on it all at the same time, without causing any problems. But let it go. We have known for a long time that the government did not count on the effect until they shut down in December, and to me it is completely unheard of. The closure is of enormous importance not only for the well-being of people but also for the survival of businesses. In my world, you cannot allow yourself to be forced to close shops, hairdressers or ban people from gathering unless it has a significant effect on the spread of infection. In the expert report we received last week, we could read that the decommissioning of committee stores, of outdoor sports and cultural activities have virtually no impact on the spread of infection. And according to a new German study, a hairdresser's visit is one of the lowest risk of infection. Yet for months the government has kept shops and hairdressers and outdoor sports forcibly closed. Why haven't the calculations been made on the actual effect before shutting down? And why are we still not going to do the calculations and put it all over the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140305	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140307	We're a little back on it, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen and I discussed this before, namely that it is not possible to settle for closure, and Mrs Pernille Vermund knows that too, because we have been discussing it here for almost a year; not a whole year, but soon for a year, to base potential decommissioning or re-opening solely on calculations of each activity, because it is the total community activity that counts. When you go to the hairdresser, it is not only a question of what is going on inside the hairdresser, but it is also a question of who you potentially meet on the way in and out. There is evidence that the British mutation is more contagious because it is higher in the throat. You might be using public traffic and that's how you could go on. So when we make decisions both in relation to shutting down what we hope will be less needed in the future, and in relation to reopening, it is also on the assumption that you must keep social activity down to avoid the spread of infection. Therefore, we cannot confine ourselves to looking at calculations in each area. If Mrs Pernille Vermund is in this Chamber today, it sounds as if we could have just left it alone; that we could have avoided restrictions and avoided decommissioning. But that is not correct. For then we would have been left without epidemic control and perhaps with a galloping epidemic and forced to make much more far-reaching decisions than those we have been forced to make in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140425	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140426	That's just not true. Already this summer, we should have prepared a much more effective containment strategy, tested better and tracked down better. But we had to have nine months into the epidemic before the government accepted lightning tests from private people. The detection still lags, to say the least, and there is chaos in the vaccination orders. And we have known for almost a year now that there is a massive over-representation of infected people among people with a non-Western background. The main task of the government and the authorities is surely to detect sources of infection and to concentrate efforts on the specific and defined areas. There is no reasonably proven reason to shut down the whole of society if it is otherwise able to ensure effective containment of the infection, and unfortunately the government has not managed to do so. We have seen how the incidence rate in Vollsmose has been allowed to explode from 153 on 15 February to 743 on 25 February. Why do we continue to shoot with a shotgun instead of focusing on where the problems are? And why should the Danes continue to pay so high a price for the continued spread of infection among people with a non-Western background?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140534	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140536	I would like to warn the Danish people, those who had to listen here today, generally against it when politicians stand up and claim that if you just did this, if you just had that tool, pressed that button, you would have solved all the problems there are. In Norway). If I may answer the question, we are in the middle of a global pandemic. Every country is struggling with this. Most countries, by the way, are struggling with a greater epidemic than we do in Denmark because, despite what may be said in the Assembly Hall or on the social media, we have actually done quite well, and I am beginning to say that, thanks primarily to a Danish population who, despite what may be presented to them, sometimes also of things that are not correct, sometimes of assertions that are quite unreasonable, insist on making their individual contribution to Denmark getting through this crisis well. We do not disagree on whether to intervene when there is an outbreak of infection in a school, an institution, in a residential area, in an area, such as Vollsmose, or a single municipality. I think we can clearly make a political understanding and agreement on that. We will need to do this even more. As we get the whole of society reopened, we must no longer work on general decommissioning, but on either local, regional or quite specific.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140655	Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. I would ask Mrs Pernille Vermund just to rip off the platform so that it is ready. I'm just gonna make sure that Mr. Cole is okay. Torsten Gejl also wants to ask questions ▪ he does. So the last party leader here in this Question Time is Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140718	Thank you, President. The Climate Council's ruling from Friday is unfortunately crystal clear: the Government's climate policy does not meet the goal set by virtually the whole parliament that we should reduce our CO2 by 2030. The Climate Council beats a thick pole through several of the explanations that the Prime Minister and Climate Minister usually give. The Prime Minister usually says that we have already come a third of the way towards the goal in 2030 in just two years. That, according to the Climate Council, is not true. I quote: the Climate Council notes that during 2020, the government has adopted instruments that meet about a third of the reduction requirement by 2030. This represents an important first step, but it cannot be deduced that we have now met a third of the challenge. ▪ The Climate Council says this because they believe that everything must be successful in relation to the interim instruments if we are to reduce one third by the means planned now. It is a best case scenario based on future calculations, all of which must be positive, and on that basis the Council does not think it can be said that we have come a third of the way. At the same time, the Prime Minister usually says that new technology and not taxes are the way forward. That is also wrong according to the Climate Council. At the same time, the Climate Council recommends clear tax on CO2 The Climate Council recommends that the Climate Minister's many proposals for technology fix be translated into a concrete plan to reduce CO2 Will the Prime Minister not, on that basis and in general, on the basis of the entire report of the Government's own Climate Committee, agree that the Prime Minister has oversold the government's climate action? The Prime Minister's own Head of Department said on another occasion, as has also been mentioned today, in an e-mail that: hope is not a strategy • hope is not a strategy. Does the Climate Council not mean that the Prime Minister has made hope for a strategy and thus oversold the government's climate action?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140914	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302140916	No, I fundamentally disagree with that, and I have to make a correction, because I have not said anything at any time, after an agreement has been reached on a green tax reform, against a CO2 I mean, we have agreed to do that. So I am not against a CO2 that is what I was about to say, at least close by, or that is the basic essence of a green tax reform. That's what we agreed. We have then chosen to do it together, the government and the Folketing, which is actually very wise, that we get some people to help us with how to do it. Because you shouldn't dig quite deep into a common CO2 because how exactly is it you measure what happens in agriculture, what happens in the household, what happens in industry, what happens when we drive a bus, and what happens when we drive our car and everything else we do? So a CO 2 Climate Council says you have to have turbo at work with a CO 2 I think Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen also mentioned it before. And we have to do that as quickly as we possibly can. So it's really just to arrest it. So, basically, I will continue to appeal to, regardless of what the Climate Council might think, that we in Denmark must show that one can be ambitious on behalf of the green transition... we have a 70-percent target in 2030 as one of the few countries in this world at all... without it meaning that ordinary people no longer have a job to stand up to in the morning, and without it means that inequality just explodes out there. We have to show this, I think, in the Danish way, and I think we have actually succeeded very well with the last year and a half.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302141105	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302141106	The next question comes from one of our members, Peter Kjær from Køge. He asks: The Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply plans to build a new gas pipeline down to Lolland-Falster. It is a gas pipeline which will supply 80% of the sugar factories in Nakskov and Nykøbing Falster. The gas pipeline itself will cost 800 million. kr. In addition, private investors intend to set up two biogas plants at 600 million. kr. However, calculations indicate that the biogas from the two plants must be supported by up to 6 billion. kr. over the next 20 years, so that there is any economy in it at all. Sugar factories themselves say that they cannot be electrified and that they therefore have to have gas for Lolland. But already today there is surplus current from wind and sun down on Lolland-Falster, which means that wind turbines must be stopped and compensated sometimes when the wind blows. We understand, of course, the Government's desire to maintain jobs on Lolland-Falster; we want to do so in the alternative. But should we not exploit the local sustainable surplus flow rather than rushing a huge CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20210302141218	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302141219	Thanks to both Peter from Køge and Mr. Torsten Gejl to bring this question in here. I don't have to hide the fact that I'm so crazy about this decision. I'm so happy with this decision. I've just been on a visit to an iPad on Nordic Sugar and talked to all the employees who have worked in this factory for a lot of years and who live in the local area and who would risk going directly into unemployment, some skilled, some unskilled, if that company just shut down. So for Lolland, for the cohesion of this country and for all the fine words that the green transition must not be at the expense of ordinary people's everyday life and employment, I am simply so happy with this agreement. I'm so happy with that deal. And as I understand it, sir. Torsten Gejl knows a lot more about this area than I do myself. You can't electrify this company on the short track, and that's why the gas pipeline is absolutely crucial to whether the company stays away in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302141317	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302141318	My final question concerns one of the biggest investments ever planned here in Copenhagen. During the current parliamentary year, the Danish Parliament will decide on Lynetteholmen and related projects. It is a social investment of between 80 billion. kr and 100 billion. kr. It is a plan which, of course, the alternative fights hard in Copenhagen. The Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority is the authority for the vvm study in connection with Lynetteholmen. The Danish Road, Building and Housing Authority has delimited the vvm study to cover already decided projects, and therefore the eastern motorway, metro to Lynetteholmen, port solutions, urban development etc. not in the study. Can the Prime Minister say anything about how, on this basis, the government will ensure that the Danish Parliament's position on Lynetteholmen can be based on an overall assessment of the advantages and disadvantages and risks of the individual shares of the project, including the establishment of an artificial island in the Øresund, the construction of the sea tunnel and the east of Copenhagen, storm flood protection of the entire capital, the loan-financed metro connection and the relocation of the sewage treatment plant Lynetten?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302141419	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302141420	First of all, there will be plenty of readings on this issue in the Folketing, where you will have the opportunity to go down on all the different issues, and the questioner is quite right that it concerns a great many elements. But did I hear correctly at the beginning of the question that we are simply opposed to it by the alternative? I don't feel that way. It must, of course, be done in the right way, all things must be clarified and dealt with quite correctly and properly, and things must be weighed up in relation to each other. But when I hear about this, I see development and growth, I see jobs, I see housing for ordinary people, and I see a capital that continues to evolve. I think we are simply starting two different places. I think: Wow, it's amazing and Denmark at its best, and that now develops the country. And I think the alternative almost looks at it the opposite. I believe that this has been the case some other times with large construction projects. I love bridges, and I love it when parts of the country are united, and I love to see people in their work clothes because we build and develop as a society. It has to be done in the right way. Everything has to be on the table, and things have to be balanced, but basically I think that there is energy and the future in this project I have to be honest and say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302141535	So, thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no more questions. And thank you to the Prime Minister, for the hour of questioning has now come to an end. I'm going to postpone the sitting until 8:00. 14.30 because the seats in the Parliamentary Chamber must be cleaned before voting is required. That is why I must ask all Members to leave the Chamber quietly. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 14:30.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143002	The sitting is resumed. Today there are the following reviews: Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 173 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on free access to menstrual products). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 174 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to allow children and young people under the age of 18 to change the legal sex). Fatma Øktem (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 175 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a Commission to ensure a better gender balance in the education system). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 176 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the expelling of criminal foreigners who violate the law on arms, drugs or criminals). Birgitte Bergman (KF), Kim Valentin (V), Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 177 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of boards of directors of a number of artistic training courses). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 178 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the replacement of pupil's salary during school periods of prison-serving pupils). Karsten Hønge (SF), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Christian Juhl (EL): Request no. F 45 (What can the Government say about developments in the West Bank following Israel's plans for annexation of the area, and what will the government do to get the negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians on a peaceful solution to the conflict back on track?). Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Kim Valentin (V): Request no. F 46 (What will the Minister do with the experience of the last year's aid packages and initiatives in the field of culture and art take of initiatives to ensure that Denmark still has a strong and vibrant cultural and art life when society opens up after the corona crisis and we can again exploit the full potential of cultural communities?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). On 23 February 2021, Bill No. L 159 and 160 after the first reading referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. On the basis of a recommendation from this committee, I would suggest that the legislative proposals should be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing, as per March. On 1 March 2021, following a decision of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the matter of digitalisation of the public sector has been brought to the attention of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Radical Left Parliamentary Group has informed me that member of the Folketing Sofie Carsten Nielsen has been appointed as a member of the Labour Council instead of a member of the Folketing Morten Østergaard for the remainder of the current term of office. The person concerned is then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143233	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. Before starting the vote, I would ask all Members to look at the voting panel just to see that it is their own name that is in the voting panel. If that is the case, I will start the vote. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 75 by Birgitte Vind (S), Liselott Blixt (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV), Pernille Skipper (EL) and Per Larsen (KF), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour 91 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against 0, abstained 0. Proposal for adoption No: V 75 is hereby adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143359	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 70 of Jeppe Bruus (S), Preben Bang Henriksen (V) and Naser Khader (KF), and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 60 (S, V, KF and LA), against 32 (DF, SF, RV, EL, NB, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 70 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 69 by Peter Skaarup (DF), draft resolution No. V 71 by Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Kristian Hegaard (RV) and Rosa Lund (EL) and proposals for adoption no. V 72 of Pernille Vermund (NB) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143516	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 74 by Jan Johansen (S), Anne Valentina Berthelsen (SF), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Bruno Jerup (EL), and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 50 (S, SF, RV and EL), against voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 74 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 73 by Niels Flemming Hansen (KF), Christoffer Aagaard Melson (V), Lise Bech (DF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143629	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143634	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 59 (S, DF, SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 34 (V, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143723	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143726	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour, 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143757	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143802	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour, 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143837	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143842	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 84 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB and LA), against 9 (EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143919	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143923	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 94 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302143959	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302144004	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 91 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 2 (NB). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302144041	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302144045	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 80 votes (S, V, DF, SF, KF, NB, LA and ALT), against 15 abstentions (RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302144134	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302144139	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302144230	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? It's being marked, and I see that it's sir. Bruno Jerup of the Enhedslisten. Is that for the amendment? I'm just gonna make sure of that. That's it. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302144304	The reason why we consider it necessary to speak here in the debate on the amendment tabled by the authors themselves to their own proposal is that we believe that we are doing something which we should say is truly historic and, in my view, also historically disastrous. It is about the fact that we are now making a decision in which it is the case that we are putting the case for a future private teacher training and how it should be designed and what should be the content of it into the Education and Research Committee before the Minister has made a legislative proposal that it should be allowed at all. In other words, it is done, it is done, it is put into a committee. So that is not the task of our political committee, but it is what is being done with the amendment tabled by the authors themselves to their own proposal. I really think it is far, far wrong to do so, and that also means that we want a vote to be taken on this amendment. Although it is formally a majority in the committee that is recommending it for adoption, here we will have a vote so that, by putting your finger on a button, you are all allowed to show what you really stand for with regard to this. Because it is really, really a scandal in politics that we are doing this here, where it is that we put the procedure down in a committee, and when the committee has then agreed that there should be a new private teacher training in Herning, then the Minister may subsequently be allowed to make a legislative proposal where there is a proposal for a law on private teacher training in Herning, after which the money to be spent on it will have to be taken up by the Ministry's own treasury. Then perhaps on the same occasion the Minister may have to close some other teacher training courses, because the money he wants to spend on this must come from somewhere. So it's just to say that you're making a disaster, but I've said my opinion about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302144527	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I can see that there are others who wish to speak on the amendments, and that is what Mr von der Vring does. Kristian Jensen from the Left too. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302144547	I shall keep this part of the debate solely to questions relating to the amendment, as Mr. Bruno Jerup mentioned here. It is true that an amendment has been tabled on when the draft law should be tabled. The original motion for a resolution indicated that the draft law was to be tabled before 1 March 2021, but as we passed on 1 March, it did not really make any sense. Then there has been a criticism that with the bill there would be no clarification of exactly what the proposers want such a school to be built on. This is because, as the report also says, we want a school circle, a board of representatives to come up with an idea of what the actual implementation of the framework should be like. It will therefore be the case that, when we adopt the motion for a resolution in a moment, it will now be possible for people who wish to offer free teacher training to offer different suggestions as to exactly what the content should be like, location, cooperation with other cultural institutions, etc., and that is why, like Mr Tugendhat, we cannot do so. Bruno Jerup says, predict where exactly in Denmark the school had to lie down. There may be more bids, and there will be an opportunity to do so. Then the question is who should decide to evaluate the proposals that have been made here. The Minister has clearly stated that it is not the Minister's wish that there should be free teacher training. On the other hand, a majority of the Committee on Education and Research does so, and that is why we have proposed that it be the Committee on Education and Research that makes such a decision. Is it normal for such decisions to be taken without the involvement of a ministry? No! Is this the first time? No, it's not. May I not just remind Enhedslisten's rapporteur that Enhedslisten for a number of years from 2015 to 2019 was part of a settlement around Togfonden DK, and every year, despite the government's wish to enter the Togfonden DK, we were left out, after which the Togfonden DK sat and distributed some funds without the involvement of the Ministry of Transport. So only after the parties of the Togfonden DK conciliation had agreed on how the funds should be distributed was it left to the Ministry to carry out what the conciliation circle had said. At that time, it was a conciliation circle, not a whole committee, but a circle of parties outside the government that made the decision. We are suggesting that it should be the Education and Research Committee, and thus also that those parties that do not think this is a good idea can take part in the discussion and talk about what criteria should be. We think this is a fair way, and I am therefore pleased that there is support for and a majority behind the amendment, and I thank, of course, both those who are co-sponsors, but also those outside the scope of the proposal, who support both the amendment and the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302144830	Thank you, sir. Kristian Jensen. I'm just gonna make sure that Mr. Cole is okay. Uffe Elbæk would like a brief comment? Yes, there is a brief comment to Mr. Kristian Jensen of Mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302144838	I would just like to support the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and say that this is a very, very unusual decision that we are taking, with very, very great consequences. I will go up and give my own speech in a moment, but in relation to what we are talking about now, namely that the decision has been taken back to committee and it is up to the committee to decide where this new educational institution should lie, it may well be that there are precedents, but that is quite unusual. My question to the rapporteur is: what should be the nature of the invitation to tender, in other words who should formulate that invitation to tender? Now you reach out to municipalities and good people out there to make this school circle, but who's gonna formulate that offer? And when it comes back to committee: what expertise do we, as politicians, have to assess which proposal is the best?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302144933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302144935	First of all, I have no intention that the municipalities should be involved in this. I would say that it is as you know from the Free Teachers' School in Ollerup or from other independent educational institutions, the high school world, etc., that a school circle, a board of representatives, is in charge and makes the specific attitude. They then invite in and send their application to the Education and Research Committee. If the Committee on Education and Research wants one, you might say, more official-like assessment of it, it will be possible to ask the Minister questions about making an assessment of it. Otherwise, I believe that it is we, as politicians, who are able to assess what we want out of a free teacher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145015	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145017	So what we are talking about is that we are taking a decision on a higher education institution, a permanent higher education institution, to train teachers for our primary school. Now this is the decision because you can't figure out where it's supposed to be. First it was in Herning, then there were some who suggested that it should be in Vejle, and then there was a third who suggested that it should be on South Zealand, this education should be. How is it to be communicated out to all those who may have a principal in the stomach or a school circle in the stomach? So, should there be advertisements in the magazines that now anyone who has a good idea for a higher education institution in Denmark can apply to the committee? Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145104	Firstly, it will be the case that it is we in the Folketing who decide what this should be like, that is, how to organise such a selection of it. Secondly, I would like to say that we have just had a wide-ranging discussion. This is one of the resolutions that has been discussed most in precisely those school circles where people would be interested and there has not been a geographical location of training at any time in the motion for a resolution. I know that I have been involved in talking about, from the discussion that has taken place with people from Herning, that it could be in Herning. There are other views on this, and now there will be the possibility that the school circles etc. The committee will then decide where it should be. Then you have a specific education with a specific school circle that you can make a legislative proposal on the basis of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145202	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145207	Thank you. After all, the motion for a resolution states quite clearly that education must provide access to primary education, and this is, after all, a matter of conciliation. So my question is actually in all its simplicity whether the Left is ready to terminate the primary school settlement to make this reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145224	This is how we have said that this is part of our education and research committee, it is part of higher education. It has nothing to do with the settlement of who can teach in primary school, i.e. the primary school settlement. This is a question of how we would like to see, alongside the teachers from the Free Teachers' School in Ollerup who pass the so-called Ollerup test, there can also be another way into the primary school. We do not think this is part of the agreement in the public school circle, and that is why this can be done without breaking the public school settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145256	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145259	It is interesting that the Left does not believe that it is part of the settlement, but then I will ask in another way: if it is actually part of the settlement, is the Left ready to respect that settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145310	Well, we live up to the settlements we have made, also to the primary school settlement, but this isn't part of the settlement around primary school. It is part of teacher training; it is about what kind of teacher we train. We want there to be a new way, a third way to become a teacher in Denmark, alongside the teacher training programmes we have. There is the Free Teacher's School in Ollerup, and there will be free teacher's education, and then there will be the teacher's education courses under the professional high schools. I understand that the Social Democrats are afraid of freedom. I understand that the Social Democrats are afraid that someone will break out and make diversity and innovation in this area. I have to say that when we decided in 1980 that the Free Teachers' School in Ollerup became part of the education reform and benefit support, it was precisely a Social Democratic Minister of Education who said at the time that it is part of the Danish school tradition that there are alternative ways of becoming a teacher, and that is what we are creating with the proposal here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145405	The next brief remark is from Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145409	Thank you. I very much agree with both the Enhedslisten and the Free Greens that this seems like a very strange parliamentary way of doing things, in other words that the committee has to act suddenly with this proposal. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur is whether or not it is true that the rapporteur mentions the Free Teachers' School in Ollerup very much that that school was set up as a private initiative, which then received public support when it was found to be very good and that this would be supported. It is not usually the other way around, so it is the Folketing that decides that we should now have a private offer and not yet know where it should be. By the way, it was the same with the KaosPilots in Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145449	First of all, I find it strange that exactly the parties that kept the then government out of the Togfonden DK settlement, and who, even without ministries, chose to distribute the large sums of money in the Togfonden DK, now come and say that it is quite strange that a location of different decisions can take place without a ministry being involved. In other words, I repeatedly asked the Social Democrat rapporteur for the Danish Association of Railways whether the government should not be allowed to join under unchanged conditions. We were left out. Now we have to hear that it is quite strange that something can be distributed or decided without a minister being involved. It would be fair to have the same attitude when you sit with government responsibility as when you are in opposition. Compared to the second, it is true that in 1949 the Free Teacher School in Ollerup was established. The terms of 1949 were different than they are today. The level of taxation was different, the possibility of raising capital was different, the requirements to become a teacher were different. Therefore, these are two noncomparable situations, that is, what happened in 1949 and what happens in 2021. That's why we stick to this model to get diversity into the way you can become a teacher in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145608	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145610	Thank you. What I am talking about is that I find it strange that we have a committee now to deal with where a school should be located in the country and what kind of school it should be, and that, as I have just mentioned, there is another example of a private initiative which has subsequently been supported by the public authorities. It is the KaosPilots in Aarhus, who are probably not as old as the Free Teacher School in Ollerup. I am just wondering why this is the way to do it by a liberal party, where people are very often in favour of things happening from below and then they can get public support afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145646	Teacher training, even as the free teacher training is planned, is a four-year education and I doubt that it would be possible to create a private own-payment on the full amount if there were no state aid. And qua that it is a 4-year education, I think it is a necessity to start a free teacher education, to enter it in the same way as the Free Teacher School in Ollerup, which has the opportunity to receive support, according to the law on professional colleges, § 35. So I would have liked to have seen it possible to start a free teacher training course completely free, but then it would probably have already happened without us standing here and having had this discussion. But I do not believe that it is possible, and therefore to create diversity, so that there will be a possibility that there will be more ways to become a teacher in Denmark, then this is the way forward, and I am glad that there is a majority backing up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145732	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I should like to know if there are any more who would like to speak on the amendment. As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145743	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a majority (V, DF, RV, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)) and voting is possible. In favour of voting 48 (V, DF, RV, KF, NB, LA and ALT), against 47 (S, SF, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 1 adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145855	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. And I understand that sir... Uffe Elbæk wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302145909	When I choose to speak at this time, it is because I think it is a very, very unusual decision that we have to make. When I read the motion for a resolution the very first time, I thought it sounded exciting. Actually, I actually grabbed Mr. Knox too. Kristian Jensen asked what the background for this was, for there had to be some material behind this proposal. To make a decision that we decide that there should be a new higher education institution in Denmark does not mean that we are doing an experiment or that we are doing an experiment, no, we are deciding that a whole new higher education institution should be created. And I'm not questioning the intentions. We need a better primary school, and there are many ways to do it. So I thought, there must be some really exciting material behind this text. That's what Mr. Kristian Jensen, and it turned out that there was a four to five-page philosophical note that one wants a better teacher training and how one intends to do so, in total header form. Then I thought: this cannot be right; it simply cannot be right that we take such a far-reaching decision which has such far-reaching consequences if there is no serious basis for decision-making. So I put a number of questions to the Minister: is there an organization behind this? Is there any leadership behind this? Is there a professional basis behind this? Is there quality assurance behind that? Is there an evaluation behind that? Where's it gonna be? Who are the promoters? And on all the questions there was no answer. And that makes me deeply concerned about education policy, because the proposal we are now deciding, or rather as a majority, is opening up for tomorrow someone who thinks that we should have private education, that we should have private social worker training. This is setting a precedent. And all of you who vote for that should really consider: is this the right way to do it? That is why I see this not only as an educational scandal but also as a parliamentary scandal. I have never experienced that we can take such far-reaching decisions on such a poor basis. Firstly, about the decision that is now being taken, we decide that a parallel system should now be established in Denmark, that is to say that we have both private higher education and public higher education. It is a completely legitimate discussion to take, but I just think it is a pity that it is being taken on this basis. Then I asked the Minister whether these attempts could be carried out in a different way, i.e. whether it was possible to say within the legislation already provided: we are taking out two or three teacher training courses and trying to create a different framework for teacher training in Denmark today. Well it is And regardless of whether we agree or not, it is usually the case that there is a serious basis for the decision we make, but there is not at present. There is a note on four or five pages and there are no answers to all the other questions we have raised. Then there was the second round when we discussed it in committee, these amending texts, which then say: no, okay, there has to be a school circle, because there has to be a local anchoring anyway. But no one knows how this is going to happen except that we are now twisting the division of power, so we are now going to have to legislate and exercise both in committee. I find that deeply, deeply problematic. And I look especially down at Radical and down at the Alternative. I don't understand why you can vote for this. I'd love it if things grew up from below. This is an up and down process. It is not the case that there is a school circle somewhere in Denmark that has come and has shown what kind of teacher training you want us to know how to teach, how to organize it, how to manage it, and how to distinguish it from the educations we have today. No, that's not how it happened at all. It has happened by someone in this Chamber who thinks this is important, and then some out there should try to pursue the idea which is extremely loosely described. I look down at Radicals, and I look down at the Alternative, and you vote as you do, but I think: Have you really thought? This is a husa decision against the worst background. That is what I want to say, and I said that in committee too, and now I have said it to the rest of you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302150452	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302150457	Thank you. We, the naughty boys, just sit down here in the back row wondering if it's the same sir. Uffe Elbæk, who is standing on Parliament's platform right now, as the Mr. Uffe Elbæk, who established the alternative party at the time, because an alternative to the established system was needed; and whether it is the same Mr. Uffe Elbæk, who was president of the KaosPilots at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302150521	Yes, it is both the same Uffe Elbæk that started the KaosPilots, the same Uffe Elbæk that started the alternative, and the same Uffe Elbæk that is now in the Free Greens. I love it if there can be diversity in education. Personally, I feel that all educational institutions should be self-serving institutions. I think that all education should be profiling institutions. But I do not want us in here to adopt a resolution on such a bad basis of decision on something that has such major consequences and in which up to now what is intended to be done has not been answered. Well, it was okay if you had said: we want to start an experiment which we then evaluate, and if it goes well, then we can scale it up and it can influence the other educational institutions. But no, no, that's not what we're doing now. What you are voting for right now is that we in this room decide that a new higher education institution should be created without any professional description, without organisation, without management, without quality assurance, without evaluation, without anyone taking the initiative and having to fight for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302150633	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302150635	Thank you for your answer. Then I'll also hear about the worst scare picture, sir. Uffe Elbæk can come up with, really is that we risk this spreading, that it will set a precedent, so that we also get private education, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302150647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302150648	I think that if we take that discussion, whether we want an educational life consisting of both private and public institutions, then I would very much like to go into that discussion and discuss the advantages and disadvantages. But it hasn't been that way until now. So far, all higher education has been publicly supported, and then there are a few examples of some which, after years of work, where they have proved their worth, have been given public approval.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302150722	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. Well, in the alternative, we're really happy to be part of this deal. We love development in education, we love development in all areas, and we often think that small self-serving places can challenge the established. What's Mr. Keating got? Uffe Elbæk see as benefits in this? Well, I guess there must be benefits too. Well, I guess there are benefits to everything in life. And why should it absolutely be the case that it should be set up, like for example? The KaosPilots, which were also publicly supported, were established? Why can one not give the fantastic task of a progressive learning environment in this country to create an exciting education which must be included in the context of the municipal, with the public, inspire the public, be in synergy with the public and try to give the little creative impetus, as such, to the public system?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302150811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302150813	There is the big difference that people who come with a good initiative have gathered some people around them and have described what they want and why they want it, and they have a local anchoring etc. etc. But that is not the case here. That is the problem. Well, I think by God there's a need for an education revolution tomorrow. I wish we could let our education go tomorrow, that is, if it was up to me. But what I do not want is for us to take a decision in this Chamber on a non-existent basis. It is very important to me that when we make decisions that are even going to be about our children and young people and about the people who have to be educated from the place in question and who are going to work out in our primary schools, then the basis should be in order. What I'm blaming this for is that this is just upside down.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302150919	The President is also a little upside down, partly because of the talk of higher powers and partly because of the direct charge. Saying you are also directly indictment, although it is in the majority. But Mr. Torsten Gejl is entitled to another brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302150933	Thank you. I believe that an exciting educational environment will seize this experimental framework somewhere in the country. I believe that in a few years' time we will have a new exciting educational environment that challenges the public sector, which is in synergy with the public sector. I can't understand why there's only one recipe for how to make it. In fact, in my world and the world of the Alternative, the most important thing is that we get innovation, that we get experiments. Whether it's exactly done in the way that KaosPilots took an education that I've had the pleasure of walking on the ground or whether it's done through this kind of challenge, what does it do if just the result becomes a new dynamic and exciting innovation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151019	Well, I totally disagree, completely disagree. I like that if you start an experiment, it is defined as an experiment, that is, where you do an experiment over a number of years and look at it: What went well? What didn't go well? What can we learn from this? Can we scale it up? But what a majority in the Folketing now decides is without any basis for decision, that there should be a higher education institution, a private teacher's education, with no content whatsoever. Well, I just can't understand how people can make it hang upside down. At least I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151057	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. If the rapporteur would be kind enough to prepare the platform for the next one. Thank you. The next person to ask for the floor is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151124	In Denmark there are in the order of 500 free schools. They have come about in the way we are now trying to do a free teacher training, so we have quite a lot of experience with it. The first thing that happens is that those who are interested in participating create a school circle, which can also be called a board of directors. The school circle owns the institution or manages it. They hire the manager, they hire teachers, they each have the responsibility for teaching in the 500 free schools, so each school group is responsible for it. It's exactly the same thing we're doing now. We all transfer our more than 100 years of experience in creating free schools to a free teacher education. In fact, this is something that I personally have been working for for quite a number of years, and now we have managed to get a majority in here. And it is not an experiment, because anyone who does a free teacher training has to make sure that the teachers who are trained there can be employed in the primary school and can meet the requirements of the primary school. This is the whole idea, that is to say, to get a challenger for the current training courses at the higher education institutions, an alternative, an inspiration, to try harder with something new. I'm quite comfortable with that. It takes place in Denmark. We have very strong traditions in this area. We know the whole way to do it, except maybe Mr. Uffe Elbæk, who was once a member of the Radical Left, just to underline it. So it is a great victory for me that we have come as far as we are. It's because I wanted to do this, that I've been in here for so long. We've tried before without success, but now there's a majority, and now we're trying it again. There's a total recipe for how to do this, and that's what we're gonna do. The school circle decides where the place of education should be. It's not something we're getting involved in. We have a lot of experience with how to create free schools and how to do free teacher education. We can do that in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151401	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151406	There's too much and so on in this. Now we know two rapporteurs, and I would like to ask the rapporteur on the Radical Left: what if it had happened in a different way and this had grown up locally, so that there was a group of good people who had decided to make a school circle and who had made their bid on how a new teacher training could look, as they so fought for, argued for and stood up for, and which they presented at the political level, that is to say to us, and we said: 'That sounds really good, you must have some money to pursue your idea?' Wouldn't it have been a better way to do this than to come from in here and say: now we need a new education and then we hope that somebody out there will catch it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151517	It is true that you can choose between the two ways to go and in which order you want to do it. Now we announce that there is therefore a majority in the Danish Parliament who would like to do a free teacher training in Denmark. It must, of course, be able to meet the requirements of teacher training. It must be able to offer line courses, it must be able to offer all the things that are part of a teacher training course. There is no need for this to be written into a motion for a resolution here in the Danish Parliament. So it is in the task that that is what this is about. It must be able to compete with the teacher training of professional colleges. It will do things in some other ways, and we need inspiration to be able to do things in other ways, but we know what they are for some things that need to be included in it. We do not need to write in a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151623	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151625	I really hope that you will be able to agree with the majority who will be voting in a moment, because I am very unsure that you will be able to agree. When we had it for first reading, there was a discussion about whether it was a private teacher's training or whether it was a free teacher's training course that was already the first uncertainty. Then there was a suggestion that it should be in Herning, but then some said that it could also lie in Vejle, while others again said that it could also lie on Zealand. There's plenty of uncertainty. I really hope that the parties have talked this through very, very well, because the parties that are voting now think something very, very different about education policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151703	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151705	They may think something very different, but they do not think anything very different about the resolution that we have on the table today, which they are voting in favour of. They know exactly what they are voting for. It's all our colleagues. So I'm not worried about that at all. It is a question of forming a school circle, as I choose to call it, which takes responsibility for the whole course now to be started, and that school circle may contain a great many people of a different nature, but that is what we have to decide, that is to say, whether it is a school group that is able to carry out those tasks. That is something the committee must take a position on, because it is we who have taken responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151747	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151752	I would like to thank the rapporteur for clarifying precisely what the basis is and also make it quite clear that we are setting up a new teacher training programme which, of course, meets the requirements of being able to teach in primary school. The Conservative People's Party fully supports this proposal because we need more education. We have seen that there is a decline in the number of applications for teacher training, and we have also seen over the years that those applying for teacher training have declining grades. We support this good initiative, which is based on something new, a European information tradition, on Grundtvig, on education; we see that there is a great need for this, and we also have full confidence that we have an open discussion, which we have had also in relation to the good insight that the rapporteur, who has fought too much of this for many years. So I can see that there is a great deal of consensus among us in favour of this and there is good reason for us to establish an alternative to the established education. This does not mean that it should stop; we are working on it at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151856	Thank you and thank you for your speech. I would say that I have tried to get used to talking about the noble rivalry between teacher training at professional colleges and teacher training at a free teacher school. It is in this way rivalry one Therefore this education is also aimed at primary school teachers and not at free schools teachers, because there is already an education which teaches and educates teachers for the free schools, the Free Teacher School in Ollerup. Why can there not be a free school for teacher training? Of course there can be. We can, of course, decide that; that is why we have a Parliament where a majority can decide this and set the whole process in motion. So we know very well in advance what it takes. Yeah, we're gonna throw ourselves into that, and I'm glad I can be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151955	The next brief remark is from Mr. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302151958	Thank you. At first reading, Mrs Marianne Jelved said that this education would never be in Herning. If we imagine the situation in which the circle making a proposal is located in Herning, will Mrs Marianne Jelved, in committee, who will be dealing with the application that is coming, voting in favour or against the location in Herning?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152043	I do not believe that this situation will arise, because the report on the motion for a resolution also states that, among other things, the school circle. We must make sure that we get in touch with the educational institutions located in the area which we have seen could have such a free teacher training, because they have to get in touch with them, they have to cooperate with them. How wise is it to take it into account? Then there is one other thing I would like to mention here and which I think is part of our luck, those who are behind the proposal here, namely that the Prime Minister appointed Mr. Kaare Dybvad to also take care of the educational areas in the country so that we can get more education spread out. It is equal water on our mill here, because we agree with that too, or at least I and my party are. I didn't ask the other parties. But it is clear that, in finding out where such an institution should lie, account must be taken of the location of the other institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152156	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152159	We may be able to share a desire for broad education, but I would like Mrs Marianne Jelved at least to try to answer the question I asked. Will Mrs Marianne Jelved vote in favour of a new private teacher training programme being set up in Herning, if that is what is proposed to the committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152235	Then the school circle has not done its job because it is quite clear that the school circle must take account of the other educational institutions so that they are connected in one way or another. It does not say exactly how they should be, but they must take that into account, and that is what we have also taken into account in the way we have formulated ourselves. So you can't put a new teacher education anywhere in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152303	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152307	Thank you. After all, we in the primary school conciliation have quite explicitly dealt with who is to teach and, moreover, work in primary school. The motion for a resolution also refers to this and says that people with the education in question must teach in primary school. That is why I was pleased that the rapporteur of the Left confirmed that there is, of course, a public school settlement, and I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the Radicals to confirm that the Radical Left does so, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152340	Of course it's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152344	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152348	I appreciate that statement. I think it is less obvious how to vote for this proposal on that basis, but I am glad that the Radical Left stands by the agreements we have reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152406	I think we've always done that. That should not be called into question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152410	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152420	Thank you. I cannot say that I have been part of the circle around the decision-making base. But when you sit here and listen first, sir... Kristian Jensen's speech and then Mrs Marianne Jelved's speech and then the statement that there is complete clarity about what has been voted for, it just strikes me that it does not seem quite clear. Sir. Kristian Jensen says that the decision is taken by the Education and Research Committee. Mrs Marianne Jelved says that politicians should not interfere in where the school circle decides that education should lie. Then I'm just thinking, these two things can't fit together. Then Mrs. Marianne Jelved gets the question: can it be in Herning? To that I understand that the answer is no, so I'm just saying on an entirely uninformed basis that it doesn't seem completely clear. For example: other places where education is not allowed to lie?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152513	Our report and the proposal state that the school circle which reduces itself, if I may say so, takes responsibility for itself, because it is the school circle that is responsible for implementing education, recruiting management, deciding where the institution should lie, etc., just as we know it from free schools, where there is also a school circle that makes such decisions. It is very important that this has been established. Then I will answer the question. What it says is that the school circle must take into account and familiarise itself with the educational establishments in the area where it intends to set up a new teacher training programme, because it must be able to do so. I mean, you have to be able to be there without getting each other to close, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152626	Sir. Jeppe Bruus for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152630	I simply have enormous respect for the rapporteur, but it just does not make me clear who is making that decision. It is repeated here that it must be decided by the school circle, and then they must take account of other things. That means it can't be in Herning. And then I just ask, is there anywhere else where it can't lie? It is clear that, on the basis of the same assumptions, it may theoretically be so. I guess it doesn't make much sense to say that it's the school circle that decides where that education should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152658	This is going to happen in a certain way with the decision-makers in here. So, in the circle behind the resolution, we have to discuss it here, and the Minister can of course also enter into a debate or a discussion on those matters. But it is to say that one should not see for oneself that there will be free teacher training, which suddenly closes a number of other institutions, where teachers are also taught to teach primary schools. That is what has been the discussion in connection with Herning, Nørre Nissum and Skive. After all, there are two institutions which train teachers, and then there is no intention that someone should come to Herning, who would have the two closed down. Because we need to have them spread out, and that is why I mention the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing and his task.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152743	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one more brief comment. Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152747	Thank you. I also share the rapporteur's intention that we should have education throughout the country. However, it is extremely important when we set up new education that it does not risk closing others down, and I hear that the rapporteur also has a concern. I just need to get it right. The school circle is supposed to assess whether there is room for private teacher training. In Herning, the whole local area is very concerned that it will close public teacher education in the surrounding towns, but it may well be that the school circle estimates that there is room for it, because it is a completely different school. I have heard an argument about this, even though all other actors in the local area say that it will make other institutions shut down. Is it not a little risky to say that the school circle can assess if we are in a situation where many of the other players consider that this will actually mean the closure of other educational institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152847	In fact, it is really difficult to answer such hypothetical questions. I have now explained the policy behind it and what we have written down in connection with the discussion of this motion for a resolution, namely that we should be aware of what it is for some educational institutions, among other things. is in the area where the new free teacher training is envisaged. This, of course, means looking at and assessing what it is going to mean. And it's hard to stand here and figure out what it's going to mean if you do one thing or the other. I know, sir. Bertel Haarder, for example. has suggested that the training should be in West Zealand, because over there there there are a great many teachers lacking. It's not unthinkable that you could put it over there. It's not strictly forbidden to think like that. What is at the heart is the creation of a new free teacher training programme, which may be in competition with professional high school teacher training programmes. That is the whole idea of this: to inspire each other, just as free schools have inspired primary school and vice versa for centuries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152949	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302152951	But this is not a hypothetical discussion, because we have some promoters in Herning who say that there is plenty of room for private teacher training in Herning. And then we have a number of other players in the Herning area who say that this will mean closing public offers for teacher training. So this is not a hypothetical situation; it is actually exactly what is going on in the discussion about private teacher training if it ends up in Herning and I think we should deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302153021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302153022	Well, we can go on forever with this back and forth with each of our positions and then it has to come to a test. What's going on? I can't answer more than I've done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302153037	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. I note that the Minister also wishes to speak, so it is now the Minister for Education and Research, and afterwards it is the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals. Welcome to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302153101	Thank you for the floor. The Government does not support the proposal for a private teacher training course with direct access to primary education. The proposal is a break with both Danish education policy, but also with ordinary decision-making processes in the Folketing, where we usually have a fairly solid basis on which to make decisions. It has never happened before that you have established a private or public educational institution without knowing what you are saying yes to. The original resolution is, of course, the same as asking me, as a minister, to issue a blank cheque, where we do not know where the new private education will lie, who will be behind it, which subjects will be taught, or anything else, for that matter. I'm being asked if I'm afraid of freedom. Under no circumstances am I afraid, in fact I want much more freedom into the education that we already have. I hope that all the fine words that are being said here today about how much can grow out of freedom actually survive, that we will hopefully sit together later this year and discuss the broad teacher education because in our primary school we need teachers who know about education that stimulates our children and who can various ways of inspiring and learning from them. We need that, but we need it all over the country and not on a single private education. There's a lot of questions about this. It can be said that the amendment at least does not force me, as a minister, to put forward a legislative proposal in which there is no answer to anything. On the other hand, there is now a process where we both have the benefit of seeing the overplay in the public school conciliation circle, where it is said in the decision-making basis that this should give direct competence to teach our primary school; it is said by the proposers that it does not have to be written down what covers it up, it is in the air. In fact, I believe that in such a serious decision about something that is so big a break on what we usually do, there is really good reason to write things down. It is also said that it is difficult to answer hypothetical questions, but friends, these are not hypothetical questions, this is a decision in the Folketing to set up a new private teacher education somewhere in Denmark that we do not know very much about. What I have to say is that this is, among other things, the case. must be based on some Christianity. Through this process, I have come out to say that I am concerned whether it can set a precedent for claiming discrimination if new or existing institutions do not have the same rights • it can be religious or philosophically founded institutions. There's really, really much we don't know about this. And I can hear that others, not by the authors of the motion, but by the circle behind the authors of the motion, are saying: the minister completely misunderstands what it means when things are based on a Christian point of view; that is not what we mean at all. But then it might be that you should formulate what you mean. Perhaps it could be that you could actually formulate what kind of education you want to give to future teachers in primary school. It is so important a job that the decision we are making here is simply quite wild. That is my greatest wish, and the government earnestly wants us to have teacher training where there is freedom of method, where emphasis is placed on education. That is why we abolished, for example. in the summer of 2020, the specific requirements for learning-targeted teaching in the Teacher Training Order. We're doing all this, and we need to get on with it. We want a teacher's training programme which equips teachers to be able, on an informed basis, to choose the methods which are best in relation to the pupils in the specific teaching situation in which the teacher stands. We want the teacher's education to be available throughout Denmark, no matter where you are a child in our country, so when you meet at school in the morning, you must meet an educated teacher who can inspire and learn from him. It must be an education that is available throughout our country, also for those who live outside the big cities, and we must be able to recruit those teachers in primary schools in all parts of the country. That is why it is also the government's starting point that the creation of new teacher training programmes must take into account the existing ones, the communities that are out there, otherwise we will only create further imbalance and imbalance in Denmark. I really hope that these are prospects which the Education and Research Committee and the majority who are voting this through today will take into account in their further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302153626	Thank you, Minister. There is no wish for brief remarks to the Minister, and I shall now give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302153643	First of all, I would like to thank you for a very good debate and, in particular, thank you to Uffe Elbæk for making critical and constructive proposals along the way. I would like to thank the Minister for bringing up challenging questions and to the Social Democrat rapporteur for also asking us along the way. That is why, from the first reading to the report's contribution, there has been a development. I really hope that Members of Parliament do not find it a defeat that during committee work we improve and develop a proposal to move forward. In my view, this is in fact what committee work is about, and if you read the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament, you will know that in the second and third readings much more time has been allocated than at first readings, because it is after committee work that you have had the opportunity to dive into matter and look at it. That is why I am not in any way sorry that we are having a discussion here today on the proposal, because I also think that the work of the committee has qualified the resolution. This has led us to clarify some things that we were not sharp enough at the beginning, and that is exactly how committee work should be, especially when it is a motion for a resolution that is about to be adopted. Then there is another reason why I should like to say thank you. I would like to thank you for now discussing spirit and freedom of spirit. We're discussing formation. What is formation? On what is formation based? What do we want with formation? We are talking about freedom, freedom in our education sector, but also freedom in the wider sense. What is to be dealt with by the public authorities, and what can be left to private individuals? And I think that's really excellent, and I hope we'll keep doing that not just on this issue, but on a whole range of other issues. Then we are talking about education for our children and what we want teachers to be able to offer our children. How can they shape them both professionally and humanly? And how do we get teachers to be the role models that I think we have all met along the way in our education and career; at least I have. I have met a large number of strong role models in my time at school, which have helped shape me into who I am. Some of them will not be equally enthusiastic about the outcome. I will take responsibility for that myself, but I can say that teachers have meant a great deal, and I think it is extremely important that we continue to discuss this. I also very much agree with what the Minister says in the end that the discussion about teacher training must not stop here. The fact is that we have not discussed teacher training very much since the change of government. I really hope that all of us, all of us who have been active in the debate here, will continue to take these discussions forward when we hopefully discuss public teacher training at professional high schools in the future. I am of the clear opinion that we can jointly lift it both with a free teacher education, with the Free Teacher School in Ollerup and with the public teacher education, because I believe in the diversity of the ways of becoming a teacher. I believe that there can be more than one way to become a really good teacher, and I believe that free teacher training will have the opportunity to attract those who want to be a teacher but who cannot see themselves in the current way of being trained as a teacher. I therefore hope that this will help to create even more young people who are interested in teacher training, who would like to apply and who would very much like to help teach our children. Because isn't that what we're all interested in, isn't there going to be some more people looking for the important work of being a teacher? It is certainly one of the things that helped me to take the initiative in writing the motion for a resolution. I would like us to find a way for several of the young people who are going into education to choose to become a teacher. However, we have to note today that they have opted out of public teacher training. There are a lot of talented primary schools, and there are a lot of talented primary school teachers, but I believe that there are several ways to become a good teacher, and I believe in diversity and that you can inspire each other and make a mutual insemination of each other • what Mrs Marianne Jelved calls a noble competition. I know, sir. Uffe Elbæk has been unhappy with some of the answers that have come into the committee's work, but what is rather strange about such a resolution is that as a member of the committee you have to ask the Minister who will then answer, but that you do not ask the authors whether we agree with the ideas and other ideas that have been put forward. It's true, sir. Uffe Elbæk had contacted me to hear about the ideas that were, and was sent one of the several foundations that have been from the original. I do not remember whether I gave the note on name, cause and purpose, or whether it was the note which was a foundation for free teacher training, whether it was (a) purpose and professionalism or (c) subjects and modules, but I have apparently only given Mr. Uffe Elbæk was one of the many annexes behind. I do not remember whether there was any further question before we had a discussion about whether it was this specific group of people who, in other words, want to set up a teacher training programme in Herning or somewhere else that should have it. There is, of course, a slight change in the second discussion that has taken place, namely where it should be geographically. I personally have no problem with it being in Herning. I am elected there, and I live there, so I have no problem with that, but for me the most important thing is not whether it is in Herning, in Hillerød or in Haderslev. The most important thing for me is that we create a national, nationwide offer to do something special, and what we can see from the Free Teacher School in Ollerup is that they have managed to make a special offer for young people who would like to be teachers in a different way, who would like to be teachers in the way they offer it in Ollerup, and therefore they can attract from all over the country, including students who drive past Nørre Nissum and past Silkeborg and past Jelling and past the teacher training in Odense to get right down to Ollerup and get educated there because they offer something special. I believe that free teacher training will be able to do something similar. It is clear, however, that it must now be materialised in that a school group must come up with their proposals as to what the content should be, and from that point of view the Education and Research Committee must decide which, if there are more competitors, should be able to form it. And yes, I must admit that it is unconventional that there is not already a school group that can make a bid, but that is also why we choose to do it unconventionally and say that it is the committee which has a majority behind this proposal that must then choose who should do it. In relation to the professionalism of the training, it has been stated from the outset that the teachers to be trained here, as part of the training, must pass the so-called Ollerup test in order to move forward. There must therefore be a professional level in which the teachers who are trained at the present Free Teacher's School in Ollerup must pass a supplementary examination if they want to teach the primary school, a so-called Ollerup test. We have written that a prerequisite for forming a new teacher training is that the test becomes part of the training to ensure that there is a professional level in the way it is. I am glad that there has also been a discussion in a decentralised way about where the training should be. I have personally noted that the Joint Council of Teacher Students has proposed that eight new places should be created in Denmark where teachers should be trained. In parentheses, I would note that they also point to Herning, but it doesn't have to be something to take care of. But they believe that there is room for eight extra places in the country geographically. I think it will be possible to find a place where interaction with existing training will be mutually fruitful. Then I am glad that Mrs Marianne Jelved has continued so long in the Danish Parliament that it has now succeeded in creating this solution, which I can understand Mrs Marianne Jelved has also had in mind for a long time. I hope that it is not the adoption of what has been done here that Mrs Marianne Jelved now chooses to refrain from re-election in the next parliamentary elections, because I think that would be a shame, but not so much that I will withdraw the proposal. I would just like to welcome the active participation of everyone in this debate, and I would like to welcome the fact that we have succeeded in establishing the basis for a new free teacher education and I look forward to continuing to pursue the rivalry that may now become with those who are interested in setting up a school circle and inviting them to undertake concrete training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302154600	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302154604	I am glad that I said at the beginning of my speech that I did not doubt the intentions and commitment of the proposers, because it is clear that there is a great deal of commitment, and I thank them for that. I have two questions. The first concerns the fact that Mrs Marianne Jelved now mentioned that this is about competition and competition. I actually like that very much. At the same time, however, it must not compete so much that it affects some existing educational institutions, and then I would just like to ask the Left such a good liberal party that says the best man or woman should win: what is the real problem if the school was in Herning and it was as good as it was, so it simply vacuumed the local area for good talents who wanted to go to that education so that one of the other educational establishments had to close? Is that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302154700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302154702	If this had to happen, it could be a problem for the local area where a teacher training course was terminated. I think that would be a problem. I have a wish that there will be more local departments of teacher training in Denmark and opportunities for it to be obtained for two reasons: firstly, because I believe that training in a decentralised manner also makes it easier to be recruited in a decentralised manner afterwards, and secondly, because I believe that we need more training places to get a greater share of our young people to choose to become teachers. When I look at the projections of the age of teachers, compared to how many people are completing the current teacher training, I think we are going to have a problem with the lack of teachers forward-looking. It may, of course, be that you can somehow withdraw some people into the teaching work or you can hold on better to those who are being trained now than has historically been possible. But I believe that we need more people to train, and I believe that free teacher training can help create a greater interest in becoming a teacher.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302154759	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302154802	So the thing about competition and competition, I'm just saying. My second question is: have the proposers examined whether this experiment, this experiment, this good initiative could well have taken place within the existing framework, by taking out x number of educational institutions and saying: are you going to be experimental training in this field? Is that something you've been looking into?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302154830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302154831	First of all, there is a reason why there is legislation in Denmark, namely that we want a framework for how our society develops. Therefore, there is not total free competition at all. And if you look at the story, you can see that the Left has also helped create that framework. Then we have fought purely ideologically about how narrow the framework should be and how free they should be. And here, in fact, the Left, along with the rest of the proposers, wants to create a freer framework. However, on the question of whether we have examined whether this could be done from within, I would say that I have not been involved in examining it. I think it might be exciting to create something from the outside, i.e. a development that comes from outside in the same way as we have seen with other developments from the Free Teacher School in Ollerup and from other private educations that have subsequently been supported by the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302154914	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302154917	Thank you. I have not become much wiser in relation to the question I asked Mrs Marianne Jelved. Now Mr. Kristian Jensen, that there is no problem in that teacher training is in Herning. Mrs Marianne Jelved has just replied that it cannot be in Herning for various reasons. So it is just not quite clear to me what the decision is actually here or who decides whether it will be there. As I understand, sir. Kristian Jensen, the Education and Research Committee, is making the decision. As I understand Mrs Marianne Jelved, you should not interfere. And you say something different about whether it can be in Herning or not. I'm a little confused about it. Can it be in Herning, or can it not be in Herning?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302154956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302154957	Today, no decision is taken as to where an education should lie. If you have to look at the location, or when you have to look at the location, you have to look at what the interaction is with the other educational institutions that are on the way or are around. It can be both positive and negative. There may be an interaction with some, and there may be, you might say, competition around the student base with others. It must, of course, be examined and presented to the Committee on Education and Research, which, on the basis of the information submitted, will decide who it is that we want to set up a free teacher training programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155034	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155035	So what Mrs Marianne Jelved said to me before that it could not be in Herning, was it right, or was it wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155047	I did not hear Mrs Marianne Jelved say that it could not be in Herning, but that it was a question of what the consequences are for schools in the surrounding area. And it is clear that there are some schools in the surrounding area that are vulnerable as the world looks today. There is. There are, for example: Nørre Nissum. It is quite vulnerable, and there are quite a few students who go on training in Nørre Nissum. I'm worried about that, too. And therefore it must be up to those who come with a desire for location to document that there is room for the school, also in relation to the others who are there. I just want to say that for me, it's not crucial whether it's in Herning or somewhere else. For me, it is crucial to create a national initiative that will allow us to gain some new experience in terms of how to train senior, skilled teachers for primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155133	The next brief remark is to Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155137	Thank you. The rapporteur speaks in his speech about how good it is that we are now having a talk about teacher training. I quite agree with that. It is so important that we talk about such an important education as teacher training. It may upset me that it should then mean that we should have a private teacher's education, which no school circle has yet offered, but do not worry about it. What I would like to ask is, in relation to what the rapporteur says, that there has been no debate at all about teacher training and that it is just standing still. I would just like to give you the opportunity to correct this, because the government has set in motion development work precisely to look at how we can improve teacher training even better, that is to say public teacher training. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155216	I am well aware that there have been some considerations within the Ministry. I just do not think that there has been a public debate about what we want with teacher training before this resolution came forward, and since the resolution came forward there has been a rushing discussion in various media, both in newspapers such as Berlingske and Kristeligt Dagblad, which has a big article on this proposal today, but also in the professional media, where the discussion about what we want to do has got under way, and I think that is a very good thing. That discussion should not stop with the adoption of the resolution in a moment. That discussion must continue, because we will need to discuss it with each other, even when we have to look at what is going to happen to the public teacher training courses at the professional high schools in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155301	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155303	I am aware that the rapporteur is not the rapporteur in the area of teacher training, but in fact we are some who have been discussing this for some time now, and to call it internal affairs in the government a bit of an understatement. It is the whole sector that has become involved and we have been discussing this in the trade journals for many months now. So I would like to give the rapporteur once again the opportunity to correct the fact that development work is not already in progress to improve current public teacher training.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155331	If the questioner is happier by saying that yes, there have been some discussions, I should like to make the questioner happy. I just have to say that one can look at whether the debate that has taken place, of what we want with our teachers, has been a broad public debate. There is a reason why we are all preoccupied with primary school and that we all have a position on primary school, and that is that it is one of the foundations for the development of our society, that is to say what education we are giving our children, and I think it is essential that the debate on what we want with our primary school and with our teacher education has started in much wider circles, and that it also continues after the adoption of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155405	The next brief remark is to Mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155410	Normally I do not deal with education, and it is rather unusual for me to take the floor, but I would like to welcome the fact that the Left would now like to discuss the content of our education. It is really liberating, but it comes a little surprising to a lot of us, since some of us know the history and remember that if someone has centralised and unified our entire education system, then it is the Left; then it is the former Finance Minister who is up there and who has been responsible for doing one of the biggest centralisations in the country throughout our education area. If this shows that the Left has now become wiser and that it has seen the consequences of the mistakes that have been made over the long period and that have hit seminaries around the country in the areas that have been so poorly tolerated, then it would be welcome, if it is an expression of the fact that it is a penance in which the Left is saying that it was not so good that they did centralisation, and that it was not so good that they alone were involved in PISA investigations, as they had the opportunity to influence it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155518	First of all, it is true that we made sure that some educational institutions in the medium-term higher education programmes raised the professional level. I appreciate that, sir. Orla Hav remembers that it was when we were in government around 2007, that the law of professional high school had been created along the way. It is, moreover, a law which, despite the change of government from one side of the Parliamentary Chamber to the other, remains unchanged. Where there began to be a change was when Mr. Tommy Ahlers, then Minister, implemented the law on educational institutions and began to move out courses, first the ten stations, but there was also a working group on teacher training which was in progress until the change of government, where the working group to improve and change teacher training was closed down by the current minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155603	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155605	Well, I would like to take this as an expression of the fact that the Left regrets the education policy that the Left has pursued for decades, because that is what the situation is. It is, of course, that the Left has helped to undermine the fact that we have a single country which has a well-functioning education sector, among other things. the medium-term courses to which teacher training belongs have been allowed to take place. After all, they have been put into boxes where there has been taximeter control and thus central control to a degree that has not been experienced in this country for a lot of years. And, of course, I am sorry that during the four-year period during which the Social Democratic Party had the opportunity to have a little more influence, there was no change in that. But is that an expression of the fact that now Mr. Bertel Haarder went and now there are new winds coming from the Left in the field of education? That would be nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155656	I'm very glad they win, sir. Bertel Haarder has been blowing over education for decades and I stand by all the decisions I've been making. I just don't understand that sir. Orla Hav casts wrecks on the four years of government under Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, or the years spent in government under the current Socialist Prime Minister. Because if it were as horrible as Mr. Orla Hav is trying to make it sound like you should have changed it. This was not done when you were in government, and it sounds rather hollow to come and say now that there is a lot wrong with the education system when you just do nothing about it when you sit with the government. We stand by the decisions we have taken and we believe that this is necessary in order to bring a new diversity into teacher training.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155735	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155738	Can the free teacher training we are discussing today end up in Herning?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155749	If it is the case that a school circle is proposing it and it is approved and adopted by the Education and Research Committee, it may be where the school circle may point out. And in terms of geography, it could be in Herning for me, as it could be in Elsinore.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155806	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155808	We have a historic break: We move a decision to set up training courses to a considerable amount of millions down a committee. And the majority behind this cannot even agree where it is not striking for the rapporteur that when it comes to something that should be irrelevant, namely where it should lie, one cannot agree? For Mrs Marianne Jelved says one thing, the rapporteur says another. What about all the contents? Well, it seems pretty violent to ask the Folketing to make a decision on such a loose basis that you can't even find out whether it can be in Herning or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155854	When you hear it from a party that was behind a train fund, which bypassed the committee structures and bypassed the then VLAK government distributed millions of kroner for investment, then it sounds really, really hollow. The fact is that this is a far more democratic way of deciding the location than what was done with the Train Fund DK, where it was not even all parties in the Folketing, but only a narrow group that could sit and discuss how to spend millions and millions of years after that without a committee or the then government being involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155929	There is one more brief comment, and that is for Mr Seligman. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302155934	It's again about the location in Herning. I'd like to ask you a question, and then it may be that Mr. Kristian Jensen says it's hypothetical. Let us imagine that there is one circle that makes one proposal to the committee and that hypothetically it is Herning, and then it is the case that a majority in the committee says no. Is it possible that a majority in the committee can say 'no', so that no private teacher training will be set up, including in Herning?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160021	In fact, I think it is very nice that the opponents of this proposal have come so far in their arguments that it is now a hypothetical disagreement between Mrs Marianne Jelved and me about a hypothetical location proposed by a hypothetical school group which is being brought forward as the big argument against it. One is so deep down in one's desperation and so bad in one's argument that one uses a triple hypothetical question to try to provoke a contradiction. I believe that there will be more than one school group interested in making a bid for it, and I believe that the Committee on Education and Research can easily take the discussion and decision on who, if so, should be given the right to pursue an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160107	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160109	I don't want to interfere with the author's beliefs. People believe in so many things, and that's fine. Well, I guess it hasn't worked out yet, sir. Kristian Jensen's attention completely passed that Herning has, in this way, filled a little bit in the debate and not only, in relation to what I and the opponents have said, but also, in relation to what Mr. Kristian Jensen himself has said, so I am surprised that Mr. Kristian Jensen rather than replying that you will not answer, not at least trying to answer the question I asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160158	This is a triple hypothetical question, saying what if, and what if. I just welcome the fact that one has come so far in one's opposition that one has to go into this type of argument in order to come up with something that one can disagree with in relation to the very content of the proposal. I would have been much more concerned if we thought it was a problem that diversity was created and I would have been much more concerned if we did not want a school that emphasized education or the European information tradition and that more emphasis should be placed on Christianity knowledge and the other things that lie in the current CLM subject, in other words life education and citizenship. I'd have been worried about that kind of thing. I'm not worried about a hypothetical discussion about geography.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160241	Thank you. Then, of course, there is another person who would like to ask for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160247	Thank you. This is not a hypothetical comment made by the rapporteur. I am here with a debate post written by the rapporteur himself, dated 18 January, and the source is Politiken Skolliv, and the headline is: Kristian Jensen: Therefore, a new free teacher education in Herning is a good idea. And then there's how else Mr. Thompson says... Kristian Jensen defends the free teacher training which may come to Herning. But I would like to ask the rapporteur: has the rapporteur, on 18 January, perhaps taken a little too much of his mouth in relation to the defence of a new free teacher training programme in Herning?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160324	I stand by everything I've written in that paper. But I can understand, given that there are now concerns about whether such a school will be a national school with the attraction of pupils from all over the country, just as we see with the Free Teacher School in Ollerup, that there will then be an assessment of what the consequences will be in relation to the surrounding educational establishments. The point is, of course, that the opponents are making this a debate on geography, where the main issue is the content; that is the question of what kind of teachers we want; what kind of freedom we want. Do you want everything to be strictly and stately controlled, or do you want there to be room for diversity and a free initiative? And I am very pleased that there is a majority that will soon manifest that in Denmark there will also be room for free initiatives also in the area of teachers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160415	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160416	All honour and respect for it, but I really don't think that's a fair interpretation. That speech is one and a half months old and it defends a position in Herning, and the rapporteur postulates to the Folketing that it is merely hypothetical. If it's just hypothetical, why make a big defense writing in Politiken School Life a month and a half ago for a location in Herning?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160439	Well, that's because one of those who has been talking about, one of the school circles that may be able to talk about, has roots around Herning, and these are people from Herning and, by the way, from Holstebro and from Aarhus and from Rønshoved Højskole. So it is people who are widely based in several parts of Denmark who have helped to create the ideas, you might say, the first small idea about this. I would like it to be in Herning, but it is not important to me that it is Herning rather than somewhere else. What is important to me is that we create some freedom, some diversity; that there should be an opportunity for us to have a discussion about what kind of training we want to train our teachers, because they are the ones who have to train our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160521	Thank you, sir. Kristian Jensen. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Kristian Jensen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate on the proposal as a whole is closed and we shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160532	Final adoption of the proposal shall be subject to a vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 48 (V, DF, RV, KF, NB, LA and ALT), against voting 46 (S, SF, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160632	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160636	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (DF and NB), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160711	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160715	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. in favour of 4 (NB and LA), against 90 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160753	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160804	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 of a minority (NB), joined by a minority (DF)? They are rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160816	The debate then concerns the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160822	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (DF and NB), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160902	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160911	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-3 of a minority (KF), joined by a minority (V and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) which was rejected. They are rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160926	The negotiations then concern the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302160931	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 32 (V, KF, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 63 (S, DF, SF, RV, EL, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161012	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161016	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 20 (DF, EL, NB, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 60 (S, V and KF), abstentions 14 (SF, RV). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161100	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161104	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 11 (DF, NB and LA), against 76 (S, V, SF, EL, KF, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 6 (RV). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161143	No amendments have been tabled. I can see that, sir. Jeppe Bruus wants to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161155	Thank you. I'll be relatively brief. This resolution has been tabled by a number of citizens on the basis of some very tragic events caused by the driving of madness. Now, a large majority of us are voting against this motion for a resolution, and it may seem conspicuous. But the thing is that the Folketing, a unanimous parliament, has made a political decision to tighten up the penalties for driving madness. We have implemented very large parts of what is in this resolution. We have had a very good reading of it and we have thanked those authors who have spent a great deal of time and energy on this motion for a resolution. So the fact that we are now voting this down is not a lack of sympathy or understanding or disagreement about what is going on. This is about the fact that we have simply largely implemented what is in the motion for a resolution. I think that is part of the treatment here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161240	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and I do not see anyone else wishing to speak, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161246	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 7 (DF and 1 RV (by mistake)), against voting 83 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 2 (NB). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161320	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161326	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-5, elected by a majority? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 6 outside the report by the Minister for Justice as adopted. It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161404	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161409	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161438	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161444	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161514	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten, does.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161525	Thank you. In the committee procedure, the Danish People's Party has tabled an amendment which, starting with the Enhedslisten, we think is right to make sense, namely that the Foreign Policy Name should of course be heard when other nations and states appear on this list of prohibitions. We consider this to be a sensible starting point. Now we have been informed by the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that this will happen automatically, and if the Minister can come up here and guarantee that this will happen, we do not support the proposal of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161603	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? The Minister does. Welcome to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161620	That is just a few words following on from the speech by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. It is about Amendment No. 4 from the Danish People's Party on the involvement of the Foreign Policy Name. First of all, I would like to say that the government has tabled this bill because we intend to use it. It's self-evident. This will also be seen if it is adopted. Because we will not accept that foreign cash flows are used to undermine our democracy and our social model. I would also like to make it clear that we do not exclude from the outset any persons, organisations or authorities, simply because they have a certain national affiliation. However, we do not believe in the government that there is a need to supplement the rules already in existence in the Constitution and in the Law on the Foreign Policy Name. We consider that the existing rules are sufficient to ensure the involvement of the Board in matters of foreign policy which may arise in the context of this draft law. We cannot therefore support the amendment. I can also state on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he is prepared to include the Foreign Policy Name beforehand if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs considers that important foreign policy reasons may speak against the inclusion of a specific natural or legal person on the list of prohibitions. As has already been said, it is expected that this will only be the case in very few cases. I would also like to say this from the Chair so that it can be recorded in the Minutes, and I have also agreed with the Foreign Minister that he is prepared to confirm this commitment by letter to the President of the Foreign Affairs Council. So we are in no way going to bypass the foreign policy name. However, as I have said, we do not believe that it is sensible for us to regulate the same conditions in several different laws. We believe that the rules of the Constitution and the rules of the Foreign Policy Name Act are good. And that's who we're going to use. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161811	Thank you, Minister. There are no requests for brief remarks to the Minister, and that concludes the debate and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302161819	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 of a minority (RV), joined by a minority (EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, KF, NB and Inger Nøjberg (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 39 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA) voted against 52 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 3 of a minority (RV), joined by a minority (EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of Sikandar Siddique (UFG))? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302162009	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302162016	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (RV), elected by a majority (the other committee), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. The draft law referred to in B shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 or on Amendment No 3 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 3 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 3 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 3 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 4 by the They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting for 15 minutes. This will allow for the possibility of cleaning up the seats and having Members moved back to the normal seats in the meeting management and voting system. I was going to ask everyone to leave the Chamber in good order, but it's almost done along the way, so thank you for that. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 16.35.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302163527	Then we resume the meeting after a little short break to scrub around where people have been sitting. The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy. Is Mr. Kasper Roug present? It doesn't look like it. Then we move on to Mr. Jacob Jensen as rapporteur from the Left, and then look for, if not Mr. Kasper Roug was supposed to show up in the meantime. Hopefully he will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302163552	Thank you. Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the Minister for the bill. From our point of view, the intention behind L 179 is good, and I am also sure that in many ways we can agree that the principle of fundamentality and, in other words, the polluter pays, is fair and also effective. The green transition and the environment and the marine environment are important for us in the Left, and that is why we are also pleased that the EU directive on disposable plastics focuses on some of the plastic products most commonly found on beaches, such as drinking cups and wet napkins and filters for tobacco products and disposable plastics. We have probably all tried to spend a lovely summer day on the beach with the family, but where the joy may sometimes be overshadowed by the fact that it flows with waste and cigarette butts. So it is fine that we can try to do something about this in the context of the implementation, which is being proposed here, of the EU directive. There are, of course, some details in our optics in the draft law that we would like to ask about in committee. It can be said that some criticisms have already been raised in the hearings received. Among other things: We can be a little concerned about whether this is the right model in order to create a difference, because that is what we want, so it is not just a blow to the air. As you know, it is most often citizens who leave waste in a different way, so it may seem paradoxical that the producer should then, as a starting point, pay for the fact that some are environmental sinners by throwing waste in the wrong places. We also lack the focus on how we might be able to communicate better to consumers, who also have a very, very great responsibility in the whole plastic problem, that is, how we handle the plastic, so that it gets to the right places for use. In addition, the one-off plastics directive also only takes into account how the current products are disposable or multi-use articles, but not whether they are degradable or not. So there are different things in relation to e.g. the calculation, which is based on weight and not on value, which can be a little too bad, as the sustainable services are usually heavier than plastics. So it can have a wrong effect in relation to what we really want. Similarly, we must also take care of the so-called free riders, who can forget to sign up for the scheme. The same applies to a problem of cross-border trade, where private goods are brought across the border, and who is actually responsible for cleaning up afterwards? Generally speaking, it is a very good intention, but it may be a little difficult to get an overview of the economic consequences for producers, even though an estimate has of course been given. We fully understand that at this stage it may be difficult to get that overview, but it is nevertheless crucial for those producers who will be met by the demands of the draft law in a practical everyday life. So, of course, we need to find a good way to avoid harming small producers and also those who actually have some good intentions and some good innovation in this area. However, having said all that, and as I started by saying, we are fundamentally positive about the intention behind it. Of course, we'll just ask about these things about how it's being implemented. Is there overimplementation? How is it expected to be implemented in practice? Is there anything about border trade issues? Who is responsible in these matters? And there will probably also be a strip of other things that will come out when we dive deeper into it. With those words, however, we are in favour, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302163958	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are going to have to have some despriting, and in the meantime I would like to welcome Mr Seligman. Kasper Roug, who unfortunately had been slightly delayed but who is now present in the Chamber. We're gonna go over to sir's. Kasper Roug, draftsman of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302164023	Thank you for that, President. Now we are doing something about plastic that ends up in the wild and we are asking manufacturers to take responsibility for the plastic goods they produce. It's only fair. I think most of us have seen pictures of how serious it is when plastic ends up in nature and not least in the oceans: sick and dead birds or whales with plastic in their stomachs, turtles entangled in plastic and animals trapped in the so-called ghost nets. We must and must do something about that, and we are doing it now. The bill is very technical to be exact it is 107 pages but also very clear. Now the whole of the European Union is addressing the types of plastics that are often found on beaches in the European Union. There are three new areas where producers will be responsible for paying for the disposal of their waste themselves. The first is the system for fishing gear containing plastics. Then there is a scheme for disposable plastic beverage containers and drinking cups that are not packaging, and then there is a scheme for balloons, wet napkins and filters for disposable plastic tobacco products. In addition, there will now be a legal basis for producers to pay for the cleaning up of certain packagings of disposable plastics when they have been used and turned into waste. They therefore have to pay not only for the waste sorting itself in our waste systems, but also to clean up when the goods are thrown into the wild. It is all part of EU rules. This will therefore apply in the European Union, which will also give it greater strength, and then it will really start to bat something out in the wild, not only in Denmark, but throughout the European Union. In the past, producers have not had to think so much about what happens to their goods when they have been bought, used and thrown out as waste. We're gonna do something about that. The whole idea behind the rules is that whoever produces our goods will have to deal with the waste they create and where the waste will end up. In this way, we have here a clear incentive for companies to think smarter, use less plastic or use something other than plastic and finally to help consumers get the plastic directly into the trash after use. That is the whole mindset behind the circular economy. This also means that we will have more plastics collected, which can then be recycled, and I look forward to that legislation being implemented by the Minister for the Environment. Here we are taking a seven-mile step to avoid plastic in nature, and we Social Democrats can of course support that, and we are also looking forward to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302164248	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Kasper Roug. And the next rapporteur is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302164318	Thank you, President. Then we stand here and have to implement a directive on producer responsibility. This is something that we have been looking forward to in the Danish People's Party, that is, that this should come into play. And as has also been said, it is relatively complicated to put into practice. Nevertheless, we believe that it will be possible for all of us, and indeed for the producers, to benefit. And why is that? In fact, I do not think that producers find it particularly interesting to see broadcasts, as the previous Social Democrat rapporteur said, showing pictures of animals wrapped in products and other products and showing their logo. After all, it is not the producer who throws his product into the wild; it is the consumers who are actually throwing the manufacturer's product into the wild. So I actually think, and so can you see in the consultation answers that there is a scepticism about implementation, but there are generally positive tactics in relation to us getting started on this. We would also like to do so in the Danish People's Party. There is one thing that we would, however, like to stress. We had a motion for a resolution in the last period about this one with chain responsibilities. Because it is very good that, hopefully, we will be very good at collecting these plastic products when they do not need to be used anymore, but then it is of no use that we simply send them into a new cycle and then they end up in the Third World and are treated in a bad way. There, too, we must have a responsibility to ensure that once we have collected the waste, it must also be properly treated. There, of course, we have some questions about the committee procedure on how to ensure this, because plastics are also a resource. Once it is assembled and sorted, it is a resource that can be sold and also recycled. There is another point in the proposal that we are somewhat sceptical about, and it is degradable plastics. After all, this is a positive thing, and we can discuss whether it is, because degradable plastics mean that you can throw it into the wild, and then it is broken down over a number of years. As a starting point, we do not think that we should throw our leftovers into nature. At the same time, degradable plastics are also a challenge in some of the sorting mechanisms that you have in relation to the plastics industry. And as I read the proposal, and as the Danish People's Party reads it, one actually takes into account degradable plastics in relation to these weight limits and what lies in relation to how to influence the manufacturers. At any rate, I believe that we must have an open and open-minded debate on whether this is really the right way to go, in other words whether degradable plastics is a product that is absolutely necessary if we are really good at collecting these products. It cannot be the intention that we should do something where, as a starting point, it is said that it will probably be thrown into nature. And that is why we need to make some products so that they can be handled. So these are some questions we have in connection with it. But otherwise I would say that this is something that interests me very much, and it also interests my party very much, and we look forward very much to the talk that needs to be about implementing it. And then I believe that in the future you will have to adjust it, as can be seen in the consultation answers. It may well be that, at some point in the third reading, we are going to say yes to implementing it in this way, and then I hope that, and there I am going to look down at the Minister, the majority that will hopefully be behind it can also be involved when we get there at some point, and we will find ourselves in a situation where we have to correct something; do something different; where the technologies have become new, so that we can do it in a more appropriate way. I believe that this should be a piece of legislation that is a little innovative and flexible, in that we can also adapt to the opportunities that we face. So today we are in favour of the draft law, but of course we have a number of questions that we will ask in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302164709	We thank the rapporteur. Then we welcome Mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302164727	Thank you. Plastic is in many ways a good material that we cannot do without, but very much plastic is only used once before it is thrown away, and it is a big problem both for our health and for our environment. Single-use plastics account for a total of 49%. of all the waste on the European beaches. These are products that are used for often 10-15 minutes, but which can be found in the environment for 100-500 years to come. Plastics in the environment have harmful consequences for both ourselves, for wildlife and for ecosystems, consequences that we do not know enough about, but which we can all see. We have all seen pictures of both birds and marine mammals that have died with plastic in their stomachs, and plastic has also been found in humans. It's scary. Using and throwing away the economy has gone out of hand. Even if citizens have an urgent desire to opt out of plastic, it is difficult and we politicians therefore have to take responsibility. We must give companies incentives to produce products that can form part of a circular economy, which means that much more products must be recyclable and recycled. In this respect, extended producer responsibility is an important tool. SF's Margrete Auken has done a huge job in the European Union to get it introduced, and now it is important that we implement it properly, and that is the purpose of the legislative proposal we are debating here today. The draft law contains a number of powers for the Minister and this may make sense, but I also think it is clear that there will be minimum implementation here. Why is that? Now there is a really good opportunity to turn up the green ambitions, but instead of doing so, you almost keep to a minimum of what you are obliged to do, and that is not good enough, I do not think, and I do not understand why you do not seize the opportunity to really be a pioneer country in this area. We therefore propose that some fence posts be set up for the implementation of the extended producer responsibility. The Green Organisations and the Danish Nature Conservation Association, the Green Conversion Council, WWF, Plastic Change and Oceana, for example, recommend setting quantitative and binding targets for reduction and recycling. I think that is a good idea, and I hope the government will take that seriously. You can, for example. look into their excellent hearing response on that very point. SF supports the bill here, but we also call on the government to go beyond the minimum implementation that is being proposed at this stage. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302164954	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302165016	Thank you. Thank you, I was about to say, in order to be able to stand here today, and I would really like to say that: thank you to all kinds of people. I remember the first time I heard of something that might remind me of this. That's about it. 15-20 years ago, when there were some who knocked on my door and said that there was something like that from cradle to grave, which later became circular economy. It was already quite abstract at that time. It has become more and more concrete in the last few years, and when I became an environmental rapporteur, one of the first meetings I held with Dansk Industri was about this extended producer responsibility. I have to say that it took a while for me to understand that these things were actually connected and that we had come so far in the development from that abstract visionary moon landing project that I heard about 20 years ago that it was now a directive and we were about to implement it. That's pretty impressive, I think. A lot of that I think is really hard to see too, but that's what's so amazing. It is, of course, that it has been a problem with all this waste that has been thrown, or things that have not been recycled, even though it was really a resource. In many ways, it's completely imperceptible to see these systems separately, but what's so amazing is that we're now creating the systems that have been missing. There have been a lot of waste, but also a lot of resources that have not been recycled. It's just really amazing. However, as some have said, it is extremely technical. Well, as long as this bill is on a lot of pages. We will, of course, follow it carefully and read the consultation answers carefully and have a good discussion with the Minister and the Danish Parliament, because I think we all agree that we must, of course, implement this as ambitiously as possible. I do not have any specific proposals or comments on the proposal today, but can just say that we support it and, of course, will also follow the further work of the committee and work on the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302165217	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And I'm gonna have to get a drink. Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302165241	Thank you. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal which will have a significant impact on the marine environment and marine life. For plastic in nature and especially in portrait is a huge problem. It is in Denmark, and it is actually in the rest of the world. And frankly, I have to say that my stomach hurts when pictures of marine animals strangled in plastic frames from a six-pack, or pictures of some of the huge plastic soups, which are unfortunately all over the world, come up in the television newspaper. The fact that we are now making producers responsible for their products is therefore a very good step towards a more circular economy and a plastic-free nature. In order to solve the problem of the huge amounts of plastic, we now need to start a massive clean-up and at the same time end the endless use and throw away culture that prevails. We must tackle the root of the nettle and therefore I am also pleased to see that the polluter-pays principle will now be rolled out in the plastic sector. Naturally, Parliament should also adopt a number of clear reduction targets which ensure that we achieve the objective of creating a plastic-free nature. I hope, of course, that the Minister for the Environment will take the lead in this. However, when I go through the list of products in the legislative proposal, which is to be covered by the new legislation, there is, in particular, one that is conspicuous by its absence. After all, there is a clear responsibility for cleaning up, among other things. Drinking cups, balloons and cigarette shutters, but should this not also apply to ghost nets? In the Enhedslisten, we believe that the extended producer responsibility for fishing gear should include clean-up costs. It is imperative to secure money for cleaning up and preventive action against ghost nets and other lost fishing gear in Danish waters. In addition, the tools should also be labelled with ownership information in a good and sound manner. Today there is no Danish survey of how big the problem with the ghost network is, but there is much evidence that there are significant quantities everywhere in Danish waters. Last summer the association Live Sea in just 14 days collected 300 nets in Nissum Bedning in Limfjorden alone. This is in sharp contrast to the fact that during the period 2015-2017 the Danish authorities have not recorded any reports on lost fishing gear, i.e. zero alerts. There is no doubt that the very ghost network poses a serious threat to the environment and wildlife at sea. Lost fishing gear is one of the worst forms of pollution, partly because they are slowly broken down into the sea and contribute to pollution by microplastic particles and partly because lost fishing nets continue to fish after they have gone overboard. They always become death traps for marine animals, seabirds, fish and other marine and ground-living animals. With this bill, we have a unique opportunity to set high standards and become a leader in dealing with the problem of ghost networks. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that we have a responsibility to tackle this problem. We must dare to set ambitious targets and not just sit back lightly with a minimum implementation of the Plastics Directive, as the SF rapporteur also said. The Enhedslisten can therefore support the bill, but we will also table amendments in committee that include ghost nets in the extended producer responsibility for fishing gear containing plastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302165614	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302165631	Thank you. The legislative proposal is to introduce increased producer responsibility for some of the plastic products most commonly found on beaches in the EU. Specifically, the draft law contains three extended producer liability schemes: a system for fishing gear containing plastic, a system for drinking containers and drinking cups of disposable plastic, which is not packaging, and a system for balloons, wet napkins and filters for disposable plastic tobacco products. In addition, the draft law provides for the possibility of imposing additional requirements on the holding and distribution of costs associated with the clean-up of discarded waste. The proposed authorisation provisions for the establishment of extended producer liability schemes must be implemented by means of a notice, which will have significant financial consequences for producers and importers who will benefit from the new scheme. The costs have not been calculated at this stage, but will be calculated for the purposes of the coinage. When the proposed authorisation provisions for the establishment of extended producer liability schemes are to be implemented in the form of a notice, this will lead to significant administrative consequences for producers and importers who will benefit from the new scheme. The introduction of extended producer responsibility on certain disposable plastic products and fishing gear containing plastics is expected to lead to an environmental improvement. It is expected that extended producer responsibility will improve the waste management of these products, including ensuring a higher level of recycling. In addition, it is expected that the new requirements for clean-up of discarded waste will ensure the prevention and reduction of the amount of plastic waste thrown into the environment. Danish Industry notes that there should be a look at establishing an infrastructure that makes it easy for citizens to clean up after them. Danish Industry believes that only the behaviour of consumers can change the amount of discarded waste in nature. Danish Occupation does not expect the scheme to contain inherent incentives for environmental improvements, and therefore believes that schemes should be designed that are primarily aimed at being economically effective. So we don't know what it's going to cost, and we don't know what the effect will be. That is why new citizens are critical of the draft law, but we will follow the committee procedure and take a position there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302165842	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions, but, as usual, there is just a little despriting. Thank you. And then we've come to the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302165909	Thank you for that and also thank you for it, I think, a positive reception from the Folketing. We are in both a climate crisis and a natural crisis. Today we consume far more than our planet can last, and when we throw out useful things and burn plastic waste, we emit CO2 So we burn too much plastic waste and we recycle and recycle far too little. So far too much turns into garbage without having been used more than a few times. And all too often we see cigarette butts, plastic packaging and other plastic thrown into the wild. When 57,000 schoolchildren in 2019 collected waste in the wild in an experiment, cigarette butts were found most. Almost every third piece of waste the students found was a cigarette butt, and in second and third place it was smaller plastic pieces and chips bags, as well as large amounts of plastic waste were found. There is far too much plastic waste that ends up in nature, and we are now taking an important step in terms of getting rid of it. The marine environment is under heavy pressure from all the plastic that ends up in the oceans, and that is what we want to change. There is no doubt that plastic is also a good material, but it needs to be used smartly, and it should not end up in nature. One-off plastic products are not smart use of plastic. They are designed to be used once, and while you are on the move, and therefore they all too often end up being left behind in nature, like the disposable plastic that ends up in the trash bin, often not recycled. And that is why, in the European Union, with the new one-off plastic directive, we have together done away with our ever-increasing consumption of short-lived plastic products, which are neither designed nor consumed in a circular agenda. With the bill, we are implementing a large part of the one-off plastics directive............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The aim is therefore to prevent and reduce the environmental impact of these plastic products and to get the circular economy going that we want so badly. With extended producer responsibility, producers will be responsible for their products when they turn into waste. The new requirements will cover both manufacturers of fishing gear containing plastic and a number of disposable plastic products in the form of food and beverage containers, drinking cups, lightweight plastic carrier bags, wrapping bags, foils, wet napkins, balloons and cigarette filters. And with the new extended producer liability schemes for disposable plastic products, responsibility also goes beyond what we know from other producer liability schemes, because responsibility is extended to the waste that ends up as waste in nature and in public space. In other words, the bill introduces a clean-up responsibility. This means that manufacturers of cigarettes, various packagings, balloons, wet napkins and disposable plastic have to pay for the clean-up that needs to be done when products end up in the wild and in the waste bins on the streets and alleys. Cleaning up responsibility is a completely new way of working on the polluter-pays principle. And this means, for example, that we hold tobacco producers responsible for the many cigarette butts that exist in our common nature. Tobacco producers have to deal with the fact that they have a product that ends up in the wild in a large way, that they are designed and perhaps also decorated so that they look natural, and that therefore you do not see that it is actually about plastic. The bill to clean up must also be made available to those who are the cause of the problem. When producers have to pay for waste treatment and cleaning up disposable plastics, they also get a direct and more clear motivation to design plastic products that can be used more than once. They are also given a clear motivation to take initiatives to inform their customers, the citizens, that they do not throw waste into the wild. As I said, we must also have a new system for fishing gear containing plastics, which means that we will have producers of fishing gear on the field. In future, they must take responsibility for their products when they are wasted and have to be disposed of. Producers of fishing gear must therefore ensure that the gear is collected and processed, and in this way we can improve recycling. We need to set minimum targets for the collection of fishing gear for recycling, for which producers must work. It will also be a requirement for producers to provide information to fishermen that fishing gear should not end up in the sea and the aquatic environment. All these new systems of producer responsibility must be established in accordance with the common EU administrative requirements. This ensures a level playing field across the EU, more transparency and also equal treatment for producers within individual schemes. We're already doing this work. We in the government have set up a cooperation forum for producer responsibility, which consists of those parties which also have to shoulder the extended producer responsibility to a large extent, and these are both professional organisations and local authorities. The Cooperation Forum will then have to make recommendations on how to establish in concrete terms a simple and uniform administration of the new arrangements and across producer liability schemes. This is particularly true in relation to producer responsibility for packaging, which in many cases is also disposable plastics. The bill here is a greater effort to eliminate plastic in nature. This summer, products such as cotton sticks and cutlery and plates of disposable plastic will also begin to disappear from the shelves in the supermarkets, and you will be able to start to see a brand on, among other things. cigarette packs stating that the product contains plastic and that it is therefore harmful for nature to throw it there. I am incredibly pleased that we are getting to grips with what I see as an important gear in better looking after our common nature, and I am also pleased with the support that has been given here during today's debate and, of course, I am also very prepared to get the answers to the questions that have been raised in this matter. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170544	There is one question from Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170551	Thank you, Minister. It is, in fact, just a clear question in relation to the fact that it is an EU directive. We can, of course, come back to that in committee work, but now I thought I would take the chance here. I do not know whether the Minister can say a little about how far implementation is in other EU countries. I am thinking in particular of our neighbouring countries. For that is not entirely irrelevant in view of the fact that for some of the goods that cross the border, border-trade goods, we must somehow also ensure that that responsibility lands in the right place. So can the Minister comment on that now? Otherwise we can put it as a committee issue and then we will take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170624	It is clear that what we have to do is to get the plastic away from nature, and that all the companies who want to join in this green transition, and who live up to the rules that we set for them, are not overtaken by some of those who are involved in a free round, i.e.. Net dealers and other things that you might be worried about didn't follow these rules. There it is, I think, a good thing that we are doing it across the whole of the European Union, so that we ensure that in this way it is uniform requirements that will be across Europe's borders. That's why we have this cooperation forum as one. In the first place, it is a question of establishing the necessary legal instruments, which must be in place at the same time throughout the European Union, and then there is some time to draw up the concrete models which must work and where we also have the opportunity to get a point of reference in relation to other European countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170719	Then it's mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170724	Thank you. I just want to hear the Minister's position on allowing fishing gear and ghost nets to become part of the clean-up responsibilities that lie in other areas of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170736	Thank you. I have also noted that there have been various requests in the consultation material, and I actually see this as an example of how many people are concerned about this agenda, in other words who want to ensure that there is less plastic in nature. This bill is one tool and there are some different arrangements in it, but it is not only because it is alongside some of the other measures we have also taken. This is among other things. the climate agreement we made this summer, where we will all sort out, but where there is a reduction target that we are working for at EU level. The Minister for Fisheries is also engaged in initiatives in relation to the ghost networks. So you have to see that is at least how we see it from the government to see it as one of the pearls on the string and not as the whole solution in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170823	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170827	Thank you. I don't think we'll be coming all the way around with this bill either, even if we get a clean-up responsibility for fishing gear written in. It is clear that there are a lot of old nets that we also need to put on. But I would like to hear a little more precisely why the Minister will or will not support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170849	Well, that is quite in line with what I said before, namely that we are dealing here with one tool to lift some of the problems that are with plastic in nature, but that it cannot stand alone. I'm incredibly concerned that we, among other things, are... The ghost net gets out of the sea where it is, but most of all we must avoid that they end up there, and here there is at least an obligation to re-use and collect the fishing gear that is there. And in relation to the actual collection and clean-up, the Minister for Fisheries has already taken initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170928	Then it's mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302170931	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I just have a few follow-ups in relation to what I said in my rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask whether the Minister is prepared to consider the draft law, that we also have a look at the fact that we in Denmark take this particular responsibility, i.e. that in products that have been used in Denmark we are not just exporting the problems to some others. Because you can live up to the legislation here if you collect the waste, but what is interesting is where this waste ends up, in other words as a resource. Is the Minister prepared for us to take a look at this? The second question I would like to ask the Minister is in relation to degradable plastics. We just have to say that we have gained a lot of knowledge in the last 3, 4, 5 years exactly in relation to that product. Would it not also be possible to clarify this in the course of the committee's proceedings?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171023	The short answer will certainly be such a yes, but I would like to try to clarify a little. In relation to this issue of waste, i.e. whether we are responsible for dealing with the waste we produce in Denmark too, I would say that yes, I think that is important. We have also had the discussion before, among other things. with the proposal referred to by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and I have also been out to say that I do not believe that we should export this waste out of the EU and that we should work to ensure that we treat it within the EU's borders. The examples we have seen with plastic that has ended up in countries far from here, where it is burned off and it is harmful to health and it is an environmental disaster at all, we must get away from that, so the Danish Government is working for that. Then there was the second question about the categorization of plastics and how to actually ensure that we get a good model here. That's one of the things we're looking at. on the environmental-graded contributions, i.e. the possibility of also providing a good incentive to the manufacturers who design more green than others, i.e. more for recycling and recycling, and where you can then go down and look at what the concrete products are really made of, life cycles and other things. So I think it is quite obvious to have the answer, also in writing, in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171134	There are no more questions, so we thank the Minister for the Environment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171153	The debate is open. The first to take the floor is Mr Seligman. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171219	Thank you for that, President. Since August 2019 it has been clear to everyone that we Social Democrats, the Minister for the Environment and the Government are not interested in more and more marine farms in Denmark. Our aquatic environment is under severe pressure, and we must, of course, respect that. With this bill, we are completely eliminating the possibility that marine agriculture can be allocated nitrogen emissions through the nitrogen phasing-in scheme. The nitrogen phase-in scheme was established with the 2015 agricultural package, where the Left, the Conservatives, the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance agreed to allow aquaculture companies to derive more nitrogen into our water environment. In this way, the production of aquaculture could grow, and we do not agree with that, because it is not possible to clean up pollution with marine aquaculture because fish are kept in open mesh cages at sea. Emissions of nitrogen are therefore carried out directly in the oceans without any treatment. We do not believe that we should have more or more marine farms, because this does not harmonize with the fact that the state of our aquatic environment is as critical as it is. In addition to removing marine farms from the nitrogen phasing-in scheme, it is also proposed that the allocation of nitrogen in the last year of the scheme, i.e. in 2021, shall only be possible for environmentally and resource-efficient pond farms. It is also in the draft law that the allocation of the remaining amount of nitrogen from the scheme can only be made for environmental and resource-efficient pond farms, and the amount of nitrogen that can be allocated is downgraded from 252,9 tonnes to 80 tonnes. With the bill we therefore expect less nitrogen emissions than provided in the river basin plans of approx. 195 t. It is important for the Social Democratic Party to take better care of our nature, too, the nature that is below the surface. And we're doing a good job of that. We have among other things. prevented the possibility of expanding existing or establishing new aquaculture using so-called compensation farming, such as: mussels, and we have strengthened the supervision of marine farms. We need to do something about the alarming results that we get over and over again about the state of our aquatic environment, and the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister have taken the lead in this. That is why we Social Democrats support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171433	There is a question from Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171437	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. I should just like to start by asking very briefly: should the marine farms that are currently in existence and those which, if necessary, may come forward? There are a number of applications that hopefully are being processed? Should not comply with the applicable rules on environmental protection, i.e. vvm studies, habitat requirements assessments, impact assessments, that you look at whether it has an impact on the nearest Natura 2000 areas, that is, all the rules that you have to live up to in order to obtain a permit to operate a sea farm? Is it not true that this is the case? And if that's the case, are they the rules that are wrong with the rules they're not tight enough? Is that what the Social Democrats are actually arguing for?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171524	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There's no doubt that this bill is based on the fact that we want to reduce the amount of total nitrogen in our marine environment, and that's 195 tonnes in this case. Of course, existing marine farms and any future marine farms must comply with the legislation, it is clear that they must. But with this bill, unlike what the previous government would like, we are able to keep the amount of nitrogen down, and professional organisations such as the Fisheries Association say that they welcome any initiative to reduce nitrogen emissions in the seas, and this is a good example of this. So we are simply following what the fishing industry, for example, wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171616	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171619	Yes, but then you have to go in and look at the rules that either give or do not allow to grant the permits. In other words, vvm analyses are being carried out every time a permit is required. This applies both to aquaculture and to all sorts of other areas for industry, where one goes in and looks at whether there is an impact on the marine environment in the nearest Natura 2000 areas, and neither is there. So, all the demands that apply must be met and documented, so why is it not really the problem that the Socialists see it? In other words, why not look at the rules of what it takes to be able to live up to the environmental approvals when, in the Social Democrats' optics, they are apparently too relaxed instead of saying popularly strangling the child slowly? Why not go in and look at the rules that are the framework for whether you can get a permit or not get a permit?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171711	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. In other words, we are not trying to strangle any child; we are trying to stimulate the creation of land-based aquaculture. This is what we want so that we have the opportunity to have a stronger and better clean-up of the emissions that are now from the land-based aquaculture. On top of that, we just want a better marine environment, and that's what we're going to get in this case. As far as vvm studies and individual rules are concerned, they must, of course, be respected, and I am sure that the current aquaculture industry will, of course, do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171747	Then it's mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171749	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. If you look at the hearing answers, you can see that among other things. has come consultation answers from Business Lolland-Falster, and we can of course call Lolland-Falster part of the province in Denmark. There are few jobs and those who are there want to develop and also want to keep. It is true that there are marine farms in both municipalities, both in Guldborgsund and in Lolland Municipalities, and in the hearing answer it is said that the time limit laid down in this bill actually makes it impossible for these marine farms to invest in and work to get on land, in other words to make the green conversion of producing fish on land. Does the rapporteur not think that it is a challenge not to make a longer transitional period so that those who actually want to switch can have the opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171840	Thank you to DF's rapporteur. There is no doubt that jobs in Lolland-Falster, from which I myself come, are extremely important to us. It is, of course, extremely important that we maintain all the types of jobs that are now there. In this case, however, we are talking about the environment, and we are talking about the fact that we have some challenges with existing aquaculture. What this bill means is not expanding existing aquaculture. That's what it brings. This means that even more nitrogen is not emitted. So I see that we have the opportunity to consider between the first and second readings whether we should look at how best to make transitional periods. I am not going to be able to say anything about that right now, but let us at last bring it to the committee for second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171926	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302171928	When you look at the bill, you have to remember that it actually concerns both aquaculture and fish farming, and I also fully agree with the rapporteur that you can handle this better if you make a fish farm. Of course, it is also much more complicated than having a sea farm where you are out in the wild and there is no doubt about it. But it is also the case that it is being proposed to reduce the nitrogen pool for environmentally and resource-efficient ponds, and this presents some challenges. We recognise this, and we can see that there is a majority in favour of the announcement of marine farming, which the Minister for the Environment also takes along with us, but then we should also give some incentives for them to continue their activities on land, in other words in the form of fish farms, if they so wish. As the bill now stands, it certainly presents some challenges for that transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302172017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302172018	That is why we have the second and third readings. Finally, let us look at how best to implement, among other things. land-based aquaculture. This is one of the things that is important for us to spend some resources on, among other things. Because there is a possibility that it will at least be easier to clean the emissions that are now. Instead of releasing nitrogen, medicine residues and phosphorus directly into the sea, it is of course important that we have the opportunity to clean it before it is discharged into our aquatic environment. Well, let's finally take a look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302172049	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302172114	Thank you. In the Left, we are concerned about how we can manage our marine and aquatic environment and get it in a better direction, and we would very much like to engage in dialogue with the Danish Parliament's parties and the government, of course, on how we can do it in different contexts. Unfortunately, we do not believe that this proposal is the right solution to get there. In our opinion, this will lead to a complete phasing-out of future marine farms and also to a strong reduction in environmental and resource-efficient fish farms. We on the Left cannot support that. Because if we just shut down the opportunity to establish aquaculture in Denmark and develop them, we risk phasing out that industry in Denmark instead, and then they will be established outside the Danish borders, for example in Polish waters instead, and what will that mean for our marine environment? Yes, the influence, if any, and it is the same sea we are talking about, it is the same flow we are talking about, up through the belts and back to the Baltic Sea. That is why it is not the right solution, we think, to phase out an entire profession. We also note, moreover, that it is an over-implementation of EU rules in this area, as well as pointing out in several of the critical consultation responses that the model as it stands will not work optimally. It is also apparent from the draft law that it is calculated that it would cost just under 2 million. kr. for the industry, but if you look at that it is actually about that it is in the region of 5 per cent. This would therefore represent a loss of production in the region of 20 million. kr., i.e. a factor of ten, with consequent job losses, just as there was a discussion about the rapporteurs of the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party here a moment ago. Moreover, this is also contrary to the Government's own ambition to promote land-based installations, because by lowering the nitrogen pool referred to to to to about a third, it will of course also significantly reduce the possibility of re-establishment and conversion of land-based freshwater and salt-water installations, which in turn will immediately reduce the demand for technology and incentives for further development in this direction. So that too is actually contrary to the government's own ambition. Furthermore, where is the evidence that land-based installations are more environmentally friendly than those at sea? At least that's something I'd like to see. It is written in the bill that the government wants Denmark to be a green forerunner and that Denmark must invest in the sustainable development of aquaculture. The future lies in the most environmentally friendly salt and freshwater pond farms on land. But on what does the government really base that postulate? For example: comparable analyses of the nitrogen impact of production in saltwater ponds compared to the environmental impact of marine production? Or has it been said that the land-based installations emit directly into coastal areas, in other words within the water plan areas, where the environmental challenges are great, but not in the open sea, as marine farms do, where there is still room for development and discharge? Why, then, are marine farms not really green if, as I said a moment ago in my debate with the Socialist rapporteur, they comply with the current rules, which precisely provide the framework for vvm studies, i.e. environmental assessments, impact assessments and so on.? Can't we trust the rules we already have? I think we should do this instead of having to say that this is a definite phasing-out of an industry which otherwise creates exports, creates jobs and which, according to the rules that apply to the environment today, creates environmental problems for our marine environment. And when we talk about land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-use-based land-based land-based land-based land-based Indeed, the rules on ecology in the EU and in Denmark do not allow the addition of pure oxygen, as is the case in intensive land-based farming facilities where water is cleaned and recycled. In other words, they cannot be converted into ecology, and that would be contrary to the Government's own ambition to increase organic production. Surely that cannot be satisfactory today. So with all that said, we are not in favour of this proposal. We do not see that it has an environmental effect. We do not see that it helps to develop our rural areas with the jobs that we all want. This will help to phase out an export of the million-dollar class, which we also need, not least in the future. It does not help to promote ecology, what we in the Left also want, and it does not meet the ambitions of aquaculture. First it was the mink business that was phased out, now you try with the sea farms. One might ask: Who are next? We are not in favour of the legislative proposal here, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that the same applies to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302172621	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. We shall now move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302172647	Thank you for that, President. Here we are with the proposal on aquaculture and fish farming and nitrogen. Let me say that these are three words that are certainly not very new. This is something we have discussed many times in this Chamber. But what we can see here and now is that we are going to have to phase out marine farming. We're not surprised. This was one of the first statements made by the newly elected Minister for the Environment. They didn't want seafood. It is, after all, legitimate enough to have that attitude. However, we do not agree with it. However, we must also note that the Minister has a majority in favour of that position. Of course, we are sorry about that. We clearly believe that over the last few years we have actually built up some competences. We have also built up some knowledge about compensatory measures in relation to marine farming. Mussels and other things can be used for it. We have not achieved that, and we will probably not get through it under the current government. This is an area which creates a great deal of jobs, especially in the province where we need them. This is an area which has very, very large exports. In fact, most of the fish produced are also exported, thus contributing significantly to the welfare society which most of us are in favour of. Another thing that surprises us, however, is that the nitrogen quota for fish farms is in fact also being cut quite sharply when you read the proposal as it stands. It has to be said that if you do not want aquaculture, you should at least be in favour of fish farming, that is to say the fish on land, where there is a greater possibility of controlling how it affects the surrounding environment. It is the case that the transitional period here is set at one year. It's so amazing that we can talk to each other too. Luckily, we can. I went down by the Minister and said that these were some of the cardinal points we had, and the Minister then said to me: that is one of the things we can talk about when we talk about the water plans. Of course, I'll take that down and be happy about it. It is, of course, an opening where we can talk about it. After all, it is also a space in which we have a debate on the future water plans and the water planning period that is coming forward. There we will certainly hope that we can save some of the jobs that are in the right places if you look in the province and that, over a period of time, you could probably be converted into something else. If it can't be aquaculture, then it could be fish farming. But of course it's L 180 we're talking about here. We will probably not be voting in favour of this. We recognise, of course, that there is a majority that wants something different from what the Danish People's Party wants. But, of course, we would like to work on the openings in such a proposal in other forums where we can participate, and we can do so, among other things. in relation to the water plans. So I do not want to thank you for the proposal, I am sorry for the proposal, but I am glad that we have some other forums where we can talk about how we can then increase the use of fish.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302172956	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173014	It is usually our nature and fisheries rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, who takes cases like this, but I have promised to give him the speech. This bill follows up on an agreement on the nitrogen effort made between the government, SF and the other support parties in 2019. In SF we agree with the government that Denmark should be a green pioneering country, and this requires that we promote modern and environmentally and resource-efficient aquaculture production in Denmark. The environmental impact is less and there is more environmental and resource efficiency in fish farming than in marine farming. It is therefore good from an environmental point of view that we are now targeting these land-based installations. We are pleased that the Minister has indicated that there must be room for new and efficient fresh and salt water use with recycling and purification in the future river basin plans. We will work for this to become part of the report for the legislative proposal. The aim is to establish a new model for the N allocation in order to strengthen the environmental and resource-efficient aquaculture production. In the committee work we would also like to have a discussion on the current river basin management plans. They shall apply until the entry into force of the new river basin management plans for 2021-2027 and appear to be delayed. SF supports the bill and looks forward to further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173135	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173138	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I should just like to ask whether the SF's rapporteur is aware that when you go in a direction of more land-based production, that is contrary to the fact that you can actually convert to ecology. There are simply some rules on what to use of oxygen addition for recycling, which is part of what you do when you have production on land. This would be contrary to the rules for organic farming in Denmark, so it would simply be against being able to convert production into organic production. Does the SF rapporteur agree with that? And was the SF's rapporteur aware of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173213	It is clear that it has some bearing on the possibility of converting to ecology, but there are also some quite significant bad elements in having aquaculture in the way we now have it. That is why we have been opposed to it for many years. So, although it may be important in terms of ecology, we think it is a right direction to go in, in other words, towards the more land-based installations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173232	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173234	Thank you for an honest answer. I think that is very useful. Of course, there are some balances to be made. Then I have another question in relation to jobs and exports: does the SF rapporteur not recognise that, after all, the industry is contributing jobs and exports, which, after all, are helping to pay for our welfare societies? Should this not also be included in the overall assessment of how we should organise our business? These are some jobs that are not just on the edge of the water, but in some cases are actually almost out in the water.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173303	This is, of course, part of the overall assessment. It always is when we make climate, environmental and natural policies. When this has consequences for some professions, we must ensure the best possible framework for those people who work with some of the things that you phase out or restructure, making a smooth process start doing something different and contributing in a different way and being on the labour market in a different way than they are now. So, of course, it is in the overall assessment, but it does not make us think that marine farming is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173332	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173349	Thank you. Now, of course, this is the implementation of an agreement that we have concluded with the government, but if you read the proposal and are not one of the initiated, I think that with quotas going from something to something, etc., it is quite difficult to understand. But in general terms, this proposal is about where you think development should take place... bet on aquaculture, or should it be on fish farming? There we believe, like the government, that we have better opportunities to create environmentally friendly aquaculture on land, because we have quite different opportunities to clean up the water in which these fish swim and in which the nitrogen gets into. There we just have better opportunities with technology to clean that water than we have at sea, and that is why we believe that it is on land that we have to invest in solutions, not at sea, which was the strategy of the previous government. It can be said that what we are really going in and touching now is, of course, a political decision taken by the previous government in connection with the agricultural package, which we have also had the opportunity to discuss in many other contexts, more in relation to agriculture, but there was a rather lax approach to nitrogen, and this also applies to the aquaculture industry. But this is not about phasing out aquaculture, it is about where we think that development and investment should take place, i.e. whether it should be on sea farms with the limitations on the possibility of cleaning water, or whether it should be on land where we have better opportunities to create a green industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173534	Thank you, and there is a brief comment. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173537	Thank you to the radical rapporteur for the speech. That is not surprising; of course we have discussed this in the past. I just have to ask, when the Radicals are helping to support a process, towards seeing more land-based installations, and they say that they should be better environmentally than those you have on the sea farms, what evidence you have for it. Well, there is, for example. Did some comparable analyses be made in relation to the nitrogen impact of saltwater ponds in particular compared to the impact of marine farms? And what is the attitude of the Radicals to the fact that the land-based plants have discharges into the water-plan areas, while the marine farms have it in open water, where there is actually an opportunity to do that discharge, when you look at the vvm analyses that you are subject to to to get permission to make sea-farming, that is to say to live up to them, there is that possibility. How does this fit in with the fact that one really wants to develop on land when there is actually a lack of evidence that it should be better?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173639	This underlines the need for development in relation to fish farms. I don't quite know what kind of documentation it is, as Mr. Jacob Jensen is requesting. Well, it goes without saying that when something goes on in nets and is directly discharged into the sea, it is a little harder to clean it than if it happens inside a closed plant. And then it may be true, as Mr. Jacob Jensen says that some inland waters are then discharged today, but we can do something about that. We can, of course, make greater demands on how it is cleaned, whereas we just cannot do so in the same way at sea. So I'd like to say that sir... Jacob Jensen's speech does not tell me that we should not drop down on the sea, but it tells me that there is reason for us to look at whether we should regulate fish farms even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173726	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173728	My point was more, as it were, if the Radicals do not recognise that there are already environmental rules which set the framework for and assess whether, in this case, marine farming has a negative impact on the marine environment and the nearby nature 2000 areas, which are, of course, some of the things we are looking at in the Habitats Impact Directive, i.e. that there are requirements to be met, and if you live up to them, there is no environmental problem. Do you not recognize that these rules exist and that they are good enough in the sense that you live up to it, is there not the influence that is being claimed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173802	So, I would say that there are a lot of demands and rules where, even if you live up to them, it still has a consequence, and if there is something that has really filled in my inbox since I became an environmental rapporteur, it is actually these marine farms and the citizens who live near such a sea farm. So it has consequences. And it may well be that it does not exceed the limit values that we have set, but that it has consequences for the environment and citizens, there is no doubt at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173829	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173833	Thank you. I would really like to make a small comment, because I am sure that Mr. Jacob Jensen's intention is to throw a smokescreen over what this really wants. So, he talks a lot about technology, but what we want to talk about is, of course, the environment, and it is not just the environment, but it is also a question of talking about, among other things. fishing. After all, it is also a question of giving fishing a chance to survive in these areas. We know, of course, that the point pollution from these plants can be violent and can have an impact on individual areas. So it is just to hear the rapporteur's comment on it that Mr. Jacob Jensen's smokescreen is a joke, I think, rather than discussing what it is, a question of the environment and a question of future aquaculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173923	Now I just told the Minister before I came up here that I have been in Parliament for so long that I dare to admit when there is something I do not know much about, and some others are smarter than me, and it sounds like the Socialist rapporteur is smarter than me in this area. Because that sounds incredibly right and wise, and it may also be true that Mr. Jacob Jensen throws out smokescreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173944	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302173946	I just want to say thank you very much for those nice words. There is not much more to be said, and there is no need to comment on the smoke screen any more than that, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174000	They were actually meant to be sincere. Well, the problem up here is that when you give some praise, you're always afraid that people think it's sarcasm, but it was actually honestly meant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174008	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174031	Thank you. Unfortunately, our usual rapporteur could not be here right now when he was going to debate, so I have just promised to say a few words from the Enhedslisten. First of all, I am delighted that this bill proposes that traditional marine farms should no longer be included in the nitrogen phasing-in scheme and that the allocation of nitrogen emissions by 2021 should only be possible for environmentally and resource-efficient pond farms. It is a step on the way in the roll-back of the blue agricultural package. For traditional aquaculture has had their greatness time; they are no longer up to date. It is no longer up-to-date to produce fish with a nutrient discharge that is poured directly into the sea without any possibility of establishing purification measures. Fish production in Denmark simply needs to take place in a more environmentally friendly and sustainable way. For most Danish coastal waters are in a poor ecological state, and the primary reason for this is the large amounts of nitrogen. Overall, the proposed amendments to this bill will contribute to a less nitrogen emissions from the aquaculture industry than provided in the river basin management plans from 2015 to 2021 of a total of 1,950 tonnes of nitrogen for the benefit of the aquatic environment. We believe that in Enhedslisten is a very good start and a very good idea. However, it is important that the allocation of nitrate discharges takes account of the ecological state of the marine waters that house aquaculture facilities. In the Enhedslisten we therefore see some challenges in the existing distribution model of the N-pool on coastal waters, i.e. that the distribution of the nitrate pool has been decided independently of the state of the marine environment. That's what we think. We would therefore like to see the relatively large share of coastal waters allocated to the most vulnerable sea areas, while coastal waters, which are not available according to the 2015-2021 effort calculations, receive a smaller contribution. So all in all, Enhedslisten can support the bill, but we would like to see a better allocation of nitrogen, in relation to where to discharge, in relation to the state of the marine environment in the individual seas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174255	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174257	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I would just like to say first of all that I do not think it is nice, since you yourself do not have good arguments, that you then accuse others of putting out smokescreens. I am actually trying to challenge the existing bill here, as to what we are actually talking about, namely whether marine farming is good or bad or whatever. So I'm just not gonna leave it uncontroversial. Having said that, thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for the comments. I would like to ask whether Enhedslisten recognises that nature and the environment do not know national borders, just as demand and production do not. And what would happen if one imagined that there was no marine production, a fish production in Denmark? Would it not then be possible to move this production to the surrounding areas, such as the coast off the North Pole, as it says, but off the north coast of Poland, then it must be? And it's the same marine environment we're talking about. After all, the Baltic Sea has flow through the belts and Kattegat and back again. So how does Enhedslisten think it? What, then, will we achieve environmentally if there is an impact, besides the fact that production, jobs and exports are no longer Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174403	Well, it is our clear vision that the production of fish that must be must be done on land and in tanks so that we can ensure the necessary purification and removal of nutrients. Having said that, it is clear that we have a common task in the countries around the Baltic Sea to reduce the rather large nitrogen leaching that there is. Poland, for example, must also take part in this responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174428	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174429	Yes, but my point is that production is looking to where it is most efficient economically, of course also within the framework that may once be. It is not the case that it is particularly effective, or at least it is not economically viable to create land-based installations today. There's almost no one, and those who are are are making fucking deficits. So it would mean, if you phase out marine farms in Denmark, that they move somewhere else, and it could be just inside the Baltic Sea area in Polish waters. Then, of course, we have not achieved any environmental benefits, but the only thing that has been achieved is that exports and income to our welfare societies have disappeared from Denmark. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174510	After all, Denmark is not a desert island, and just as there are requirements that we should reduce our nitrogen emissions to the aquatic environment, there are also requirements in Poland. I think we should take the chance that we can invest in and actually take the lead in producing land-based fish production. And then, hopefully, the sea will also provide the opportunity for there to actually be wild fish that we can catch far more than is possible today. It also requires that we lower nitrogen emissions and create a proper marine environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174536	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and then the next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174557	Thank you. In addition, the draft law will reduce the remaining amount of nitrogen from the existing scheme to environmentally and resource-efficient ponds from 252,9 tonnes to 80 tonnes. I think it is a pity that there is no focus instead on promoting aquaculture and fish farming. Marine farming is a profession with a great many positive opportunities. Marine farming is resource-efficient food production with a low climate footprint. Fish is a healthy and sought after food. Fish farming must mean less pressure on wild stocks. The sector can create growth and new jobs in rural areas. At global level, aquaculture is primary animal production with the highest growth rate, i.e. 6%. The industry is large in other countries, for example. Norway, and it is also big in the Faroe Islands. The EU and several Member States have European and national growth strategies for aquaculture. The emission of nutrients from Danish aquaculture is a minimal part of the total emissions. The influx of nitrogen from the North Sea and the Baltic Sea is about nine times as large as the total Danish land influx. The emission of nutrients from marine farming is therefore minimal compared to other sources. Danish Aquaculture states that the removal of the nitrogen pool for marine farming will have negative consequences for the environmentally and resource-efficient pond farms, as these plants deliver fish to marine farms. I note that the Danish Nature Conservation Association believes that aquaculture is not a modern technology. They probably do not agree with this in Norway, where the industry is among the largest, in fact the second largest, the last time I checked, for the oil industry, which the Danish Nature Conservation Association and the Left probably also consider to be non-time technology. New citizens cannot vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174749	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174753	Thank you. It is just a short question: does the rapporteur not recognise that a greater amount of nitrogen is destroying the marine environment and thus also destroying fish stocks?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174810	I believe that the figures we are talking about here are so minimal in relation to the total nitrogen influx in the seas that it is negligent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174819	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174821	I'm sorry to hear that somewhere. That means that as long as it's just minimal numbers, it doesn't do that much. Are there also other areas where the figures are minimal and which we should not look at regulations in relation to? What about other professions? Will they not become quite resentful or angry if some professions are thus neglected in relation to others?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174840	We can also look at other professions. But now we're talking about marine farming in this context, and the numbers we're talking about here are completely negligent compared to the amount of nitrogen that still flows through the oceans. So I do not believe that this can be expected to have any significant impact on the marine environment as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174902	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then no more rapporteurs will ask for the floor, so now it is the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302174916	Thank you. I am concerned to take better care of our aquatic environment while at the same time supporting the sustainable development of the aquaculture sector. And by this proposal, I mean we do both. Fish are farmed in open nets at sea. This means that marine farms emit substances directly into the aquatic environment without any treatment. In contrast to marine farms, fish can be produced in modern land-based plants, where nutrients are cleaned, and where less or no medicines and co-formulants are used. Together, this means that land-based installations are far more environmentally efficient than sea-farming, and therefore I also see great potential in investing in the most environmentally friendly land-based aquaculture facilities and not in more growth in the marine sector. And it's in that light that you have to see the bill here. The aim of the draft law is that aquaculture will no longer be covered by what is called the N phasing-in scheme and that the allocation of nitrogen in the last year of the scheme, i.e. this year, should only be possible for environmental and resource-efficient pond farms. Environmental and resource-efficient fish farming is characterised by using modern technology to clean the discharge and, as I said, it is not possible for marine farming. In addition, the draft law proposes that the remaining amount of nitrogen from the existing scheme should be adjusted downwards from approximately 250 tonnes to 80 tonnes. This is due, among other things, to: the geographical distribution of nitrogen in the river basin management plans. The fact that we have landed on exactly these 80 tonnes is due to cooperation between a number of stakeholders in aquaculture operations. The pool for environmentally and resource-efficient pond farms, i.e. the 80 tonnes, could contribute to increased fish production in more modern land-based plants, and water planning for water plan II has taken into account the amount of nitrogen that could be authorised under this N phasing-in scheme this year because compensatory measures have been established. This ensures that emissions do not result in deterioration in the environmental state, or that there is an increase in emissions, in relation to what was provided for in the river basin plans. And overall, the bill will contribute to a less expected emissions of nitrogen from the aquaculture industry than provided in the water planning and also in the current legal basis to about 195 tonnes. In addition to this, there is the potentially smaller excess emissions of phosphorus, organic matter, medicines and co-formulants. The bill is expected to enter into force on 1 July together with a new decree on which the Ministry is also working. I would like to sign for the sustained and timely efforts of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, the Danish Sports Fishermen's Association as well as local associations and citizens to highlight the challenges of marine farming. With this bill, we are taking another step in the right direction, protecting our aquatic environment and at the same time creating opportunities for those who can and will produce fish with a low environmental impact, namely the modern facilities on land. So for me, there is no doubt that the future lies in the modern land-based facilities, which, incidentally, we are also very good at doing in Denmark and which we hope will also be able to export. So in those words I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302175252	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302175255	Thank you, Minister. That was not surprising, of course, and it is quite as it should be. We know each other's views gradually. I just need to ask you something. What puzzles me is that the Minister does not seem to recognise that there are requirements and rules, vvm analyses, etc., which assess precisely whether there is a negative environmental impact on the various activities we have, such as aquaculture. And when we do, there is, of course, an analysis that assesses whether this is something we can allow within the possibilities that exist, in relation to whether we have a negative impact on our environment, including the marine environment. That means that the marine farms that are there today and the possible future marine farms must, of course, meet precisely the requirements of negative environmental impact. If they are not present, they cannot get approval. Does the Minister not recognise the rules we know, i.e. the vvm analyses and other rules on the whole marine environment and the permits you need to be able to expand? Is it not a recognition that the Minister can really see?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302175353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302175356	I really think it was a good place for the rapporteur to start, namely that we have a smoking disagreement on this point. I think that is well known to everyone. And it is also something that we have discussed several times here in the Folketing, namely that we have chosen a new course as a government in relation to the previous government, in which the previous government suggested that the compensatory marine instruments could be used. A pool of nitrogen was set aside, which we are now taking out of this phasing-in system, and in general it wanted growth in relation to the aquaculture sector. There I have said very clearly that I do not want more and more marine farms in Denmark. We have taken a number of steps to get there. This is also one of the steps, compared with the fact that we are facing a major task in Denmark in bringing down the emissions of nutrients, that is to say, we are getting better care for the aquatic environment. That's what's in this, too. And that is where we in the government want us to move towards a development in which we promote modern land-based facilities, where there is also still development work, but which is what we see as the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302175501	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302175503	But when you look at the fact that you want to reduce the nutrients that are added to the marine environment, you have to look at it across a broad spectrum. After all, there are many different impacts on the marine environment. We are also talking at the moment about water plans and food production in a broad sense and about industry and all of us at home in households. Is it not reasonable that we should look at what we are really getting out of this, in relation to the cost we are incurring in our country of job shortages, lack of investment, lack of exports? And may I ask quite frankly: is it the government's plan to ban marine farming altogether in Denmark in the long term?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302175535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302175537	I think it is quite right to say that there are, of course, many sources of nutrient emissions that are happening in Denmark, and that is what we need to address, including with the water plans that the rapporteur points out. There is agriculture some of those who emit the most nutrients, but there is also sewage, and there are also marine farms and other things. What we are discussing here is aquaculture, and that is where we want a different development. We have also discussed this in the past. Well, there are some marine farms today, and there is a process going on from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency as well. But what we want to support politically are the land-based facilities, and that is what the draft law here also points in the direction of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302175613	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302175628	The debate is open. The first to speak is Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302175656	Over the years, there has been a rather long waiting list for cases reported to the Psychologist Board. When you look at the treatment that has been going on for a long time, you can see that there have been many who have been waiting for a decision. Therefore, it is also good that the Minister, together with the Psychologist Board, has launched a series of administrative measures to strengthen the supervision of authorised psychologists in the intervening period, including extraordinary efforts in 2020 to settle and reduce the number of pending cases. The draft law then makes an extension, which in fact doubles all the posts, and we very much hope that we will be able to look forward to improving the problem of waiting lists. That is why, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302175812	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Social Democrat rapporteur, so now the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302175831	Thank you for the floor, President. Today we are embarking on the first reading of L 147, which is a legislative proposal which, for the uninitiated, may sound a little technical and perhaps even a little unimportant. The proposal is about something as simple as extending the number of members of the Psychologist Board, from the current six members to 12 members. But the context in which the proposal enters into is anything but technical and indifferent, because the reason why the Psychologist Board is to be extended is that they must be able to hold more meetings and thus deal with more cases. That is what is at the heart of the matter: the Psychologist's Board has received far more cases. In fact, what is known as a real case chip has arisen, and that hump unfortunately shows that there are a large number of psychologists out there who are either not doing their job well enough, or who are even worse abusers of their duties. If you have been following the development of the psychology and treatment area, you have probably also come across the DR's both awful and amazing series of broadcasts, namely the one called "The Perfect Victim." Here DR takes us on a heartbreaking journey into the unpleasant experiences that a large number of people have experienced in psychiatry and in various psychologists. We build, among other things. Knowing Sara, that's not the person's real name, I'll just say. Sarah was sexually abused as a child, an experience that Sarah seeks out for good reasons for a psychologist to get help in dealing with. During the course of treatment, the male psychologist exploits the relationship of trust that Sara and he have built up. In fact, it comes to the point where the psychologist manipulates Sara into sleeping with him, just as he sexually exploits her. That story just makes it run cold down my back. I guess you have to look for a long time for the same kind of disgusting person. And as if the treatment that Sara has received was not disgusting enough, she has not been able to get compensation from the patient's replacement, even though the psychologist has been convicted in court. It's just too bad. Now I know that what I'm saying is not what this bill is all about, but we need to look at the psychologists' authorization, because Sara's case is unfortunately not a single swallow. That is why I am also pleased that a working group was set up at the time to examine whether it would not be appropriate to authorise psychologists in accordance with the licensing law. Although it is a good thing that this group has been set up, we cannot wait much longer for its recommendations. Sara's case is a clear example of that. So a clear request from the Left: now get the job done so that we can do away with the quack. It is also important for the Left, and I think that is an important point, that patients receive an independent vote in the Psychologist Board. Therefore, the Left would like Danske Patients to have a so-called right of option for this board. As the Left sees it, it will increase the legitimacy of the name and at the same time send a strong signal that the Folketing is one hundred percent behind the patients who are badly treated. These are people who, in many cases, have to be described as mentally vulnerable and who therefore need all the support and help they can get. Then I think there is nothing but to add that the Left, of course, supports this bill and that both my party and I hope that we can put an end to the fact that more people are at risk of suffering the same fate as Sara unfortunately did. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302180223	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we'll get ready for the next speaker. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302180248	Thank you. The proposal is to increase the number of members of the Psychology Board in order to have the necessary meeting capacity to hold the meetings of the Boards. The comments to the bill show that since 2017, the Psychologist Board has seen an increase in the number of inquiries concerning authorised psychologists, which has led to an increase in the number of pending supervisory cases in the Board. I would like the Minister to explain what the background to this increase is. There have been a number of articles in the press and criticisms of several cases, as mentioned from the platform, including a woman who would complain about her psychologist, but who was rejected, and there have also been a number of challenges in the Psychology Board. The Minister also mentioned in it that a number of temporary measures have been taken, and I would also like the Minister to state, when the Minister goes on the floor of the Parliament, what action has been taken and what the importance of these measures is. At the same time, a study has also been launched to determine whether it would be appropriate to introduce a health certification system for psychologists. The Minister is also asked to report on the state of play of the work and on the date of completion of the study. In the Danish People's Party we would like to see a health professional authorisation scheme for psychologists, which is also available in the health sector. You shouldn't be able to call yourself a psychologist if you've had your license withdrawn. We have also had a number of consultations on this subject, including in particular: have been mentioned cases of sex conflicts, including one in which the psychologist could continue to practice, even if the psychologist had had his authorization withdrawn and had sent messages to his client • and I quote: You are nothing but a house slave. There have been such examples, and that is why we also have an obligation on the part of the Danish Parliament to act and ensure that those citizens who need to come to a psychologist can safely come to a psychologist, including a psychologist who is authorised and does not continue his work without authorisation. Several consultation responses are positive with regard to enlargement, and I can mention that the Danish Psychologist Association welcomes the fact that consideration is being given to ensuring better opportunities, but they then consider that an increase in the number of members of the Board will not be an adequate or appropriate solution to the challenges. The Association states that it may be challenging to recruit and retain qualified candidates for the work of the Board, because the remuneration is even extremely far from consistent with the volume of work. That is why they are proposing that the fee be increased. Then I have noticed that the Minister replies that there has been a doubling of the fee, but I do not know whether it reflects the need then, but it may be that the Minister can tell about it when the Minister takes the floor. In addition, I would say that we in the Danish People's Party are positive about the proposal, but we believe that more needs to be done. We must ensure that the clients are safe, and when there are stumbled vessels, we must fight hard, and that must be corrected. So I look forward to the Minister's reply to the questions I have and also to the committee's reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302180634	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. There are no brief comments. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to scrub off and prepare for the next one. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302180700	Thank you for that, President. I am here a little as a substitute, because the rapporteur, as most people in this Chamber can see, has a slightly different role right now, so I will read it out here. I would, of course, first like to thank the Minister for bringing forward the bill to increase the number of members of the Psychology Board. In the SF, we are positive about the proposal to ensure the necessary meeting capacity to deal with the number of cases. By extending the number of deputy members from 6 to 12 in the Psychologist Board, it will be possible to reduce the current accumulation of cases and this will help to reduce the processing times. It is generally positive to increase the number of members of the Board, and this is reflected in the consultation responses from among others. Danish Patients and Better Psychiatry that we should continue to ensure the composition of the Psychologist Board. Furthermore, the Danish Psychologist Association and the Children's Council point out that only an increase in the number of members of the board is not a sufficient or appropriate solution to the challenges. It is already difficult to recruit and retain qualified candidates for the work of the Psychologist Board because the remuneration is not in line with the workload. Members attend long-term meetings with extensive files, and this requires a lot of preparation, as many different cases are dealt with at each meeting. This is not reflected in the modest remuneration. So, although the SF is positive about the bill, we also believe that these challenges should be looked at in the forthcoming committee work. We must ensure that the quality of the work of the Psychologist Board does not fall due to the good intention of having more members. That is why the SF supports the proposal but looks forward to further discussions in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302180847	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Sir. Henrik Vinther.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302180907	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say quite briefly that we can support the proposal, which, of course, gives an extra boost to reducing the case in the Psychologist Board. It is therefore good to have additional resources which will enable more meetings to be held and possibly two parallel boards to be set up if the pressure becomes high. It may also highlight what might be the problem, and we shall look for answers to that in the committee's work. Basically, it is interesting to know why there are more complaints. Is it because more people go to the shrink? Are there any changes in what is being complained about? Or are there individual psychologists who get a lot of complaints? And what do they get complaints about? Then there's the fee. For the members of the board can get too little. At least that is what the psychologists themselves say, that is that it is difficult to recruit the necessary number of psychologists to sit in the board. It's fine that the fee doubles in 2021, but what happens after that? However, as I said, we can support the proposal and look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181002	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181021	Like the previous rapporteurs, I can support the draft law. It is clear that it does not solve all the problems in this area, and there are several who have pointed out that we both lack answers to why there are more complaints, and we also need to talk about the authorisation of psychologists and so on. and so on, but this can at least give a relief for a period of time until we hope more basically get to grips with the problems. So Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181054	Thank you. This did not give rise to any brief comments either. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181117	Thank you. Since 2017, the Psychologist Board has seen an increase in the number of inquiries concerning authorised psychologists, which has resulted in an increasing number of pending supervisory cases, some of which have already been addressed by some of the other rapporteurs. Against this background, the Psychologist Board has proposed that the number of members of the Board be increased in order to provide the necessary meeting capacity to deal with this increasing number of cases. It makes good sense to get to the bottom of the matter and the Conservative People's Party supports that and we would also very much like to look at the composition of the Psychologist Board in the further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181210	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And while we are just getting ready here on the platform, I can say that the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181231	Thank you so much. This bill proposes increasing the number of psychologists in the Psychology Board. When I was reading the bill, I first noticed that it was specifically mentioned that by 2020 up to 15 meetings were planned, but that only 11. And it kind of puzzled me that, when there were planned 15, only 11. I also think that there are a lot of questions that remain unanswered and in which I do not think that the escalation of the number of psychologists in the Psychology Board would necessarily be a solution. Nor do I think it is very clear what kind of cases have occurred in which this very sharp increase has taken place. So, immediately, we are not so favourably disposed towards this proposal, but I am going to ask a number of questions during the committee procedure and then we will finally take a position from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181334	Thank you. There is no comment to be made on the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and then it is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly who rounds the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181354	Thank you. I would like to thank you very much for receiving the draft law and for the constructive and effective debate we have had here today. After all, we are still awaiting the outcome of the study on the medical authorization of psychologists, and while we are doing so, I am very pleased to see such broad support for increasing the capacity of the Psychologist Board. The rapporteur of the Left brought up some of the specific fates here on the platform, which has also been promoted in the press. I think it makes a deep impression on all of us, every time we hear about a human being who, in one of the most vulnerable situations in his life, seeks the help of a psychologist and then abuses that trust and exploits that vulnerability. That is why it is true, I would say to Mette Thiesen, that this is not the solution to the big problem, and that is why it is quite right if the New Citizens' rapporteur has read the bill and thought that it will not solve the basic problem. But this will be a very good help for us to be able, in the intervening period, until politically we can have the debate on a proper medical authorisation, to take the opportunity to deal with the cases that are coming and we are not pushing a hunch ahead of us. After all, the rapporteurs have all been about the increase in the number of cases and the problems it poses. After all, the report has continually adapted its efforts and increased the number of annual Board meetings, but it also notes that they have now reached the maximum they can cope with, with the number of members of the board who are now there. That is why we need to expand in relation to both members and deputies, so that there is the necessary capacity to hold the necessary number of board meetings. After all, the bill here does not go in and alter more fundamentally the Psychologist Board. I have also read, like you, the suggestion that Danske Patients should have a seat or a right of adjustment, but it is not the purpose of the bill here to go in and change more basic or substantively by the Psychologist Board for the present, all the time that we will hopefully have an end to the evaluation of authorization and need to have a collective discussion. But I am certainly open to the discussion then. Then, among other things, there were... asked what the other temporary measures are that have been made. I'd like to overlook something that's a little technical for you, so you're also able to dive into it. But we have made a number of changes in addition to this, among other things. the mention has received psychological assistance in preparing cases for the mention. It is a qualification of the work being done, not least of the preparations for the meeting. There are also means for extra case resolution in 2020 and the possibility of raising more cases of their own motion, and then there are some changes in some notices that I must be honest and admit is a little technical, and that is why I would also like to make further clarification of them in committee if there is a wish to do so. I would just like to end by thanking you once again for the very positive reception of the draft law and, of course, I am at your disposal for any questions that may arise during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181700	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181704	I had a number of questions in my rapporteur's speech, and one of them was that the Minister should explain the background to the increase. The second thing I had was when this investigation was done. There's a job going on, and now we're dealing with this. It would have been nice to have been able to deal with it together, as the Minister says that Danske Patients would have liked to have a seat in this. So when is it done? And in relation to those temporary measures that have been taken and which the Minister also mentions in the bill: what are these measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181752-2	The last thing about the temporary measures I tried to answer, and let us at last leave an overview of it. That's what I sketched out with, among other things. the possibility of taking up more cases of its own motion, and the psychological assistance in preparing the board meetings. But let us just have an overview of it sent to the committee. I fully agree that it would have been wonderful if we had made progress with that working group, but there are several health authorities, in particular the Health Authority and the Board for Patient Safety, which are part of that working group and which have had to allocate resources to the covid-19 management. I think there is a broad understanding of this in this Chamber too. I expect the working group to be able to resume their work during the spring, and I hope we can have the report from the working group before the summer break. And then I am thinking of taking more detailed questions during committee reading. I know we do not have an overview of the categories in which the various are put. That is a general increase in the list, as far as I know now. If you want to have it broken down more, you should very much like to ask some questions during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181855	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181857	I know we have not been informed that the working party has been suspended temporarily, but it may be that it has passed me over. But will the Minister say anything about whether it is the intention, when this working party is finished, to call the parties of the Folketing for negotiations in this area? And if the Minister says it is finished this summer, it will probably be in the next assembly that it is going on. So what is the time perspective for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302181932	It is true that this would, of course, be a major political decision which cannot simply be implemented without us having some political discussions about it. A proper authorisation system would have some consequences also in relation to health and so on, so that would of course be something for the parties to gather around when we have the working group's report. I know that there are many parties here who are concerned about it and also have opinions on it, so it would be some discussions that I would look forward to very much. That is quite true what the rapporteur says, and I hope that we have the report before the summer recess and the hope is bright green. However, the rapporteur is quite right in saying that we will not meet on this until we have the report, and therefore probably not on this side of the summer holiday either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182014	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182042	The debate is open and the first to speak is Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182059	Thank you for the floor. Today, we are going to deal first with a legislative proposal aimed at clarifying the basis for the administration and supervision of the Social Fund, while at the same time ensuring a clear and clear framework for the work of the Fund. After all, this is another rather technical bill, which also contains a great deal about administration, but it does not make it less important. It is important that there is clarity for all about how the Social Investment Fund is operated, and the draft law contains a number of clarifications and small changes. So we're not gonna change this bill for the overall purpose of the Social Fund. We are not making it more difficult for the fund to achieve its objectives, but rather easier because the framework is being clarified. One of the clarifications is e.g.: to clarify that private investors can invest in the fund's overall portfolio. This should help to clarify how the Social Investment Fund can achieve the objective of attracting new external capital. In addition, the proposal will also ensure that the Minister can establish an administrative basis. It is important that the Minister has the opportunity to discharge his responsibility for the fund's overall supervision of respect for the arm's length principle. At the same time, the draft law also offers a good opportunity to stress that the Social Fund is doing a great deal of work in looking at how we can shape the welfare of the future. I am very confident that with investments and projects under the Social Fund, we will be able to show the way forward towards how we finance welfare in a way that benefits the individual citizen but can also ensure a profit for the public sector. It is therefore also important that we ensure the right framework for the Social Fund with this proposal, and that is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182306	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182309	Thank you. This is at least according to the bill an adjustment, I think it will be called, of legislation on which we also had a great deal of debate when it was introduced. One of the things that Enhedslisten criticised and was concerned about, and which neither the Social Democrats, the Left and other parties thought would be the result, was that the participations and the investors that are attracted choose the groups in which you can make some money out of investing, that is to say those who can improve, and that all those who do not have the same potential and thus do not provide the same opportunity for return will be left on the platform, for example, people with disabilities whose condition does not necessarily improve because a disability is as it is. At that time it was guaranteed that it would not happen. Now it is being opened up to invest precisely in individual themes and not in the entire portfolio, and that the fund can also select themes that match the needs of the participating interests. Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182419	I would say that I think it would be good to delve into it when we deal with it in committee and look at what concerns you can have and perhaps draw some lessons from elsewhere. In fact, I think that one of the things that is strong about the fund is that capital forces can be brought in. And one of the essentials is to look at how to support what is beneficial both for the individual citizen and for society as well. I am not so worried that the investment that is in the form of external capital will not help lift it. The point made by the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten, I would like to take part in the debate, but I am not as concerned as Enhedslisten is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182507	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182508	Excuse me, but I could almost have figured out that the rapporteur wasn't. My question was the reason for this. So, at the first reading of the draft law setting up the Social Fund, the then Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, said: "So you cannot take out individual projects. It seems to me that this has been an important safeguard clause in relation to the fact that we have constructed the fund. It is precisely to ensure that creaming is avoided, i.e. that participations only choose the most profitable projects and leave the rest to all sorts of others. Can the rapporteur not take the view that this is precisely what we are opening up to now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182549	I think we need to look at the fund in general and at what work it does. After all, we have also discussed some of these matters when we have been in the pool of rates and have been discussing what is at the root of the investment. It's fair enough that we disagree. I think it is essential to follow this. I'm not so worried that you can invest in something that can help do this. We can see that there are some places where it might be sensible to choose something out and see where it is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182636	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. While it is just being cleaned, the rapporteur of the Left is ready. Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182656	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Socialist rapporteur, who explained very well what this proposal is about. The idea of creating the Social Investment Fund is precisely to develop welfare, so that we can both become smarter and more skilled and at the same time perhaps make it a little cheaper. To do so in a triangle between authorities, suppliers and investors may not find the Left so surprisingly right. We can see a great many places in our society that the interaction between the public and the private works very well, and we are becoming smarter and more skilled by that all the time. Now the fund has been operating for a few years, and there is a need for some clarification and adjustments that the Socialist rapporteur made a moment ago, and we can support the Minister's proposals far along the way. Of course, we have some questions that we will be asking in connection with and up to the second reading, and we will look at the answers to our questions now coming from the Minister and the Ministry, but in fact we are basically positive about the proposal, and we have also taken note of the positive consultation answers that are in the context of the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182811	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182812	Thank you. When we discussed the creation of the Social Investment Fund, Enhedslisten had some concerns. Among other things: We were concerned that as an investor we could choose the projects which are the profitable projects, and then, like all the social work that makes no sense, we could leave it either to the fund's base capital or to the municipalities. In other words, you get such a private market for welfare services... basic and basic welfare for socially vulnerable people, people in homelessness, people with disabilities... where the good investments come to the projects that are profitable and that can improve and all the others are left to sail their own lake. When we dealt with this proposal, the Left said, among other things, that it was absolutely crucial that, as an investor, one should invest in the overall portfolio of the Investment Fund and that one could not select individual projects. Now the Left is saying that it is a positive thing to introduce. Can the Left explain what has changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182926	We see that what is happening in the Social Fund is precisely trying to develop in the triangle of authority, suppliers and investors. After all, we have got some projects through which we are wiser and which we can then share. We really think that is quite positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182946	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302182947	But that was simply not an answer to my question. In other words, I am trying to get someone to explain to me how it may be that it is okay for individual projects to be selected out of investors and that they should not invest in the overall portfolio, as has been the way in which it has been so far, and as both the Left, the Social Democrats, the SF, I believe, all parties, it was the rule of protection against the interests from choosing the profitable projects and leaving the people who were unprofitable to the welfare state. Why is it that the Left now thinks it's a good idea? Or do we need clarification? Then it may be that it can change again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183030	Firstly, we need clarification and I would like to be allowed to delve into the projects that are now in place to see if the rapporteur is right. I also believe that, in the context of the hearings, the Minister will take account of some of the questions raised by the rapporteur. So it may also be that the Minister can explain his answer in the consultation material.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183050	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183115	Thank you. Behind the Social Investment Fund there is a unified pool of rates. That is no longer the term, it is now a reserve and it was an agreement made by all parties except Enhedslisten. There was a need for new thinking and a new approach to give citizens active action as well. First of all, it was the establishment of what is called to enter a new country. The aim of the Social Investment Fund was to disseminate well-documented actions in the major welfare areas, interventions aimed at achieving better results for citizens. In addition to the dissemination of well-documented interventions, the Fund should also develop and mature new initiatives which could subsequently provide a basis for dissemination, including active interventions. Due to the resort change in which the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly has taken on responsibility for the matter, a work has been carried out on supervision. The purpose of this bill is then to provide a clearer legal basis for the Minister's administrative supervision of the Fund and to provide a clear and clear framework for the Fund's work by means of a number of clarifications. There are then a number of clarifications, six in total: a clarification of the fund's organisation and themes for its work; an addition to the Social Investment Fund's ability to grant grants to state, municipal and regional authorities; a clarification of the ability of private investors to invest in parts of the fund's portfolio; an authorisation to set administrative bases and to add that the fund's situation is regulated in a statute; a legal basis for using a state-authorised auditor rather than auditing under Section 2 of the Act on the audit of the state's accounts and, finally, a clarification on the evaluation of the fund. I think this bill is very technical. Indeed, I cannot fully understand the importance of this bill, including any consequences or the extent of the Minister's authority. So I would simply like to suggest that we have a pedagogical technical review of this bill. I know that we have been discussing the Social Fund for some time in the circle, but it would be very good to have a review so that we can see exactly what we are supporting in relation to this and also what it actually means in concrete terms that the Minister can issue an administrative basis. And when the administrative basis will then constitute the overall set of rules, I can also be concerned about where it leaves the parties to the agreement. What I then agree with is that an evaluation of this area should be carried out. So I cannot say that we in the Danish People's Party support this bill at this time. I simply need a technical review of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183440	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183447	Thank you. Once again, I am the substitute today. The SF welcomes the proposal to amend the Social Investment Fund Act in order to provide a clear legal basis for the Minister's administration and supervision of the Fund, as well as to ensure a clear and clear framework for the Fund's work through a number of clarifications in the Act. The Social Investment Fund was set up as part of the Agreement on the Child and Social Rate Pool in 2018-2021, an agreement of which SF is part. The aim of the Social Investment Fund is to support early and preventive interventions in the major welfare areas. Centre for Voluntary Social Work calls for a neutral representative with knowledge of civil society to be deployed on the Foundation's Board of Directors in order to make the most of the fund and investment projects. Similarly, the Voluntary Council recommends that the current board be extended by one member who has insight into the voluntary social sector and the activities of voluntary organisations. In the SF, we believe it is important that the fund be advised about its activities by organisations and individuals who have a great deal of practical experience in the welfare policy areas of the public sector, but also in the voluntary sector. It is therefore positive that the Minister envisages the future composition of the Board of Directors to be discussed on the basis of the evaluation presented by the Board of Directors of the Foundation at the end of 2021. In the SF, we are particularly positive about the participation of state, municipal and regional authorities in the projects for which the fund allocates funds. However, we can also see the good objectives that cooperation with private actors can contribute to the projects. The crucial thing for SF is that it will not be financial incentives that will dominate the selection of the Fund's projects and interventions. Cooperation with the private actors must take place on the right terms and conditions, and therefore SF is positive that it is clarified in the law that private investors can invest in the fund's portfolio and that investments must be within the politically determined themes of the fund's work. As the legislative changes will not significantly affect the overall social purpose or intention of the new Social Investment Fund Act, the SF supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183723	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183727	I'm a little worried that SF isn't more worried about the bill. In fact, the rapporteur himself says here in the end that the crucial thing for the SF is that it will not be the economic interests I think it was the choice of words that determines what action is being taken in the social field. That's exactly what's basic. It must not be investment interests that determine how much help you can get from the welfare society if you have a disability, if you have an abuse, a social problem of another kind. There are two elements to this bill. One is that it will be possible for the fund to set the themes, which means that they can set themes that match the investors who have approached, and the other is that investors should also be allowed to cherrypicke, which themes they think there are economically making the best sense to invest in, and thus leave some other groups that make little economic sense. Is that not exactly what the SF's rapporteur says here and says the SF does not want? That's what's going on with the bill, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183841	Thank you. But it is clear that this is also something that we will be aware of and look forward to in relation to the evaluation which I also mentioned in the speech I just made. However, I am also sure that the acting rapporteur will elaborate on this in the course of the committee's work in order to perhaps find better solutions, precisely in order to protect it so that it is not the economic interests that must govern exactly the initiatives that the Social Fund must take.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183912	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183913	That is fair enough, of course, one could hardly ask to exchange places, but still. I mean, I get it. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk It should not be called: I do it gladly). That is fair enough, with practice and all sorts of other things. Well, the one important change that happens with this bill is that investors can choose, cherypicke, individual themes. That means they can choose according to economic interests, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302183948	Yes, and I also understand Mrs Pernille Skipper's concern here, we share that in part, and that is something we want to follow, but that does not mean that this is just what should happen. That is also where we should try to be in some kind of dialogue and follow this through, and that will probably be the closest I can do to it, in terms of giving a qualified answer to the rapporteur. Otherwise, I will be sure to pass on the floor in future committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184015	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Sir. Henrik Vinther.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184036	Thank you for the floor. The proposal is primarily about practical adjustments that clarify the organisation, competences and other boundaries, which ensure that there is a solid basis for managing the Social Investment Fund, including the arm's length principle, and that the choice of new themes does not, of course, affect existing projects. It is good to have a 10,000-kilometre review of the basis, but as the Danish People's Party's rapporteur also mentioned, it is a technical proposal and therefore it could be good to have a review in committee. At the same time, the draft law stresses the need to work with private funds, etc. It has been slow to develop and test social efforts, and it is taking on board the proposal. It is proposed that it will be easier for funds to be in the legislation, and that is positive. At the same time, it is important that we keep an eye on the quality and spread of the Fund's projects. They must be effective; that is what is meant to be. They must promote the creation of better life, reduce public spending and provide a basis for new public and private investment. We are in favour of the proposal and have a number of specific questions which we look forward to discussing in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184139	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184140	I would like to ask the rapporteur exactly the same question that I have asked the other rapporteurs. Does it not worry the Radical Left that this bill will enable investors to cherrypick the projects they believe can yield the highest possible return? I'm not saying that's what they want. Perhaps some will invest for the sake of their blue eyes, and that is really nice, but it allows investors to choose where it can provide the best economic return and then let other vulnerable groups sail their own lake, that is to say, that you get a better effort if it pays off, and not because we basically as welfare societies give everyone the same effort. As I remember, this was also one of the priorities of the Radical Left, namely to invest in the overall portfolio and not be able to select individual themes. Is it not worrying for the Radical Left that that is what is being opened up to now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184234	It is gratifying to see in the material that what the Ministry estimates is that what the private funds • and these are primarily funds we are talking about • are interested in is the development work, that is, creating something that develops the area. Makes the cake bigger, not less.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184249	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184251	I think that is quite right, and it is primarily funds that are currently interested. But if you look at how this kind of work has been used in other countries, then it has been an opportunity also to profit from social work, i.e. that you as a private investor go in and invest in certain social areas. If you can make it more efficient or cheaper, or if you are able to deliver a certain improvement, then you get a certain return that goes straight out of the public purses. But that also means that special efforts will be made for certain groups. Are we a step closer to that situation with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184328	Not the way I see it. For the time being, it has been difficult to get private investors to invest to the extent that they might have hoped. And the fact that an area is being raised makes it possible for resources to be available elsewhere. So overall, it makes the cake bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184344	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184406	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the previous rapporteurs. After all, the draft law we are debating concerns a number of amendments to the Social Investment Fund Act, which we also had through the Parliament Hall in 2018. As may have been apparent from the brief remarks I have made to the previous rapporteurs who have been there, I do not think that these are amendments, clarifications and clarifications, as otherwise described in the draft law, and as several rapporteurs have put it. In fact, I believe that some of the assumptions that were made, which were at least put forward as assumptions and so-called important safeguards, are fundamental when the law was originally adopted and the fund was originally established. Here, in particular, I believe that the proposal that the fund's board of directors can set up a theme for the Fund's work, and the proposal that private investors should be able to choose individual projects to invest in rather than the current rule that they should invest in the overall portfolio, are significant and substantial changes that I will certainly delve into the legal work that needs to be done after today. When the law was passed, it was precisely these principles, that the fund's field of work should be politically selected and that it is investors who have to invest in the entire fund, which was highlighted as the elements of the fund's construction, which should counteract what is called creaming, that is to say, where it is the most profitable or the most economically secure projects that get the money from outside, from private investors, and thus get a better effort, that is what should prevent it. The Social Democrats' then social rapporteur also called it an important safeguard clause in the Foundation's construction in order to prevent money from being found only for the most profitable social projects. In the Enhedslisten, we were very concerned at that time and also voted against the proposal, and against it was also a number of social and civil society organisations, for the reason that this way of seeing social work, that is to say as something that is profitable, and something that has to create a surplus for private investors, has also been shown in other countries to mean that there are some specific groups that are getting a better job than others, not because they are more worthy of it, so it should certainly not be in a welfare society at all but because there is a difference between what it is for some problems and what it is for some needs we have, as citizens of a welfare society. People with disabilities cannot just get better and create some sort of development, but there will be some other groups that it is easier to get up and move forward in the statistics. It has caused problems elsewhere. I think it is fundamental in a welfare society to have a need for help, whether it is because you have an innate disability, because you have a mental illness that can improve or because you have a social problem, there is a safety net that grabs you and what effort you get should not be determined by what is economically viable for private investors. It must be politically elected, something we decide as democracy and as a community. That is why we pay taxes and private companies also pay taxes, and so together we manage the money to ensure the best possible effort. Now it turns out that, as several rapporteurs have also said, it is not only difficult, but perhaps almost impossible, to create private capital if the investment that is to take place is also to be made in the fund's overall portfolio, which consists entirely of precisely politically selected themes. We were told at the time that this was precisely what was meant to ensure that it was politically determined what action was taken as a citizen and what projects were being targeted, and therefore this was not a question of getting better efforts depending on the financial interests. There are very few people who have shown interest in putting money into the project, and that is why, with this bill, we are going to open up the possibility of precisely cherrypicking the investment projects that you seem to make sense. As I said before, there may be plenty of people who want to do it for their blue eyes and want to invest in those projects that are most in need, but it is now possible to do it on the basis of economic interests too. I am also concerned that this safeguard rule, which has meant that it is politicians who choose which themes to set, is being softened and which now means that the fund can also set its own themes. Because that means that you can set themes on the basis of which investors you know are out there, that is, what you can say is the opposite version of cherrypicking, namely creaming. Against this background, the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal, but we will certainly take part in the political debate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184919	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302184921	Thank you for that and also thank you for a fine speech. People with disabilities can get better if they get the right tools, but I understand Enhedslisten's point in what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says. But there is something that I really had doubts about. I remember how the Socialist rapporteur actually fought for the Social Fund, also in relation to what the Social Democratic Party thought it should look like. In fact, a great deal of attention was also paid to the Socialist rapporteur at that time in those debates. But what I would like to hear was in relation to the themes that we have to decide in the circle. Now I just had a little doubt, 'cause this is a bet pool deal. Does Enhedslisten help to decide the themes when the parties meet, so will Enhedslisten support the themes or selection, depending on what we politically decide to be the overall themes, or does Enhedslisten not participate in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302185025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302185026	I understand that the rapporteur is quite factually asking. In other words, Enhedslisten was not included in the pool agreement, which set aside funds to set up the Social Investment Fund, because we did not think that we should find the money that was taken from people at that time on cash benefits or from people's pensioners or other people's pensions to fund social contributions, good as well as bad social contributions. Besides, we were not there either, because we voted against the bill. I have explained this, I think, in a few rounds now, so why we did not support the bill at the time. That is why, of course, we have no right whatsoever to determine anything in that circle. I know that we have sometimes been allowed to listen to what is going on and give our input, but no, it is not something that Enhedslisten decides, and we have no formal vote in that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302185121	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302185122	Well, thank you. It is because we have been discussing who should be sitting around the table, even when we need to translate funds into good projects, in relation to the fact that we set up the rate pool. Enhedslisten sits at the table and wants to help translate this money, but would like to be outside if it's bad, in terms of what Enhedslisten thinks, in terms of this. So it's just the fact that Enhedslisten will not sit at the table next time we negotiate themes. It's just to get an understanding of Enhedslisten's role in terms of the whole circle we are now sitting around when we also negotiate the reserve. Because that's part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302185204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302185205	No, it's not part of it. These are simply two different discussions, but this is a discussion which I have heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party discuss a few times. It is the case that, fortunately, the then rate pool has at last been closed down and that, therefore, money is no longer taken from people on a national pension, in unemployment and from other people in order to raise money for social contributions. Then there are some reserves that have already been taken once. The settlement has been terminated, and this means that the reserve can be used by all parties of the Folketing, including Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302185243	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302185306	Thank you. The first years of work in the Social Investment Fund have revealed some ambiguities in the law, among others. on the organisation and themes of the Fund for its work and the possibilities for the Fund to provide grants to public authorities and private investors to invest in parts of the Fund's portfolio and the basis for the policy stance on the further organisation of the Fund. The draft law states that the amendments and clarifications contained in the bill will not affect the overall purpose or intention of the Social Investment Fund Act, but that the draft law provides a clear legal basis for the administration and supervision of the Social Investment Fund by the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly and provides a clear and clear framework for the Foundation's work through a number of clarifications and minor changes. The Conservative People's Party is, as a starting point, positive about the bill. We then have some questions which we would like to clarify in the further work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302185417	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The napkins are still gone for despriting. That's good. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302185438	Thank you. I must be completely honest and say that when I heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party asking for a technical review of this, I was very pleased, because I thought that if someone who has been sitting with so long still thinks this is technical, I am not alone in thinking it, and I can only support a technical review, because it is a very, very technical proposal. Having said that, this is also the implementation of an agreement which, for several reasons, is not part of either, including the simple reason that we were simply not sitting in the Folketing when we were doing this. So we have a lot of questions along the way that we need answers. I think there has been a lot of very good consultation answers, and I also think a lot of good points have been made. I also think there's a lot about this attracting investors, where I think there's a specification in the law that I actually think is very reasonable. What I cannot help noticing is a rather bold hearing from the Danish Industry with regard to this, which I can only support, is that the government wants to drop its pursuit of private initiatives and simply roll back the whole approach of banning both private day-care institutions and, incidentally, private social services, this so-called profit ban. I can only endorse that view. I note, then, that the answer to the consultation answer says: "This means that there is agreement and full transparency on what private investors can earn from their investments and whether the efforts have really created value for the people they are going to benefit from. It says below: "This is not the case when a social offer makes up a profit that can be paid as a dividend to the owner company. Private people can make a profit alone by providing a service regardless of the quality and the results. But honestly, sweet friends, it's so great in the private market that a bad offer is chosen from, and then it has to close, but that's not really the way it is in the public sector. So it was really just a small cadeau for Danish Industry that has a point of view that we fully support, namely that we should drop this hunt for the good private initiatives, which, fortunately, there are many of which we must maintain. I have a lot of questions about this bill before I feel like I can say one thing or the other, so that will be my attitude from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302185732	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the New Citizens' rapporteur. Now it's the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elders. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302185801	Thank you for receiving the bill and for the constructive debate we have had in this Chamber today. Part of it has probably been an echo of the debate that was held when the fund was set up. And it is true that Enhedslisten was neither included in the pool agreement that created the fund nor the bill that established it. It is well over 3 years ago, and there was broad agreement, but as I said, it is true that New Citizens were not in the Danish Parliament and Enhedslisten did not support the bill, nor were they in the agreement that established the fund. But now we have had some experience of this; there has been a need to provide a clear framework and, therefore, a better framework for the work of the fund, to clear up some of the ambiguities in the legislation that have emerged during the first years of work. I would like to say now to those who called for it that we always want to put up with an educational and, to the best of our ability, technical review of the proposal, very much. After all, we can have a dialogue with the committee as to whether we should invite it or whether it should be under the auspices of the committee. Then there is a major discussion here. That is what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, and it is, after all, a discussion that goes all the way back to when the fund was set up and to some of the very fundamental discussions here. On the one hand, I think that we will have a good opportunity to discuss the fund in great detail when we get the evaluation of the Social Fund at the end of the year, and, on the other hand, if we have not fallen over it in the draft law here, I think it is in the consultation note, it says that, at the request of the SF, there will be an explicit follow-up in three years' time to the concern that I can hear the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten have. I would like to say quite clearly, and it is also in the consultation note, that this should not lead to creaming or cherrypicking or distortion of the portfolio. We believe that there are still safeguards to ensure that it does not, but we have, at the request of the SF and I think it makes very good sense also inserted that that part should be followed up, i.e. the possibility to invest in parts of the fund's portfolio after 3 years. This means that if it turns out that the bias that Enhedslisten fears is happening, then we have the opportunity to act on it. It is just so that there is no doubt that we fully agree with the political point that there should be neither creaming nor cherrypicking, nor what the different expressions of it are now. That is why we have just said that there are still some safeguards against what Enhedslisten's rapporteur has been worried about here today, among other things. Moreover, it is also from the political point of view in the contract circle that we continue to determine the themes of the fund, and also that it will be a clear requirement for the fund to ensure, as far as they can, that there are external investors on all the politically determined themes, and thus also that the fund can reject further investors on issues that are already covered. In this way, the fund can contribute actively to the political desire, for it is a political desire to avoid creaming and cherrypicking. And we should get some Danish expressions of it, because I do not even think you should stand and speak English on the platform, but it is apparently accepted from the chair as something that has slipped into the Danish language. But thank you very much for the announcements here today. Thank you, too, to those who say that there will be questions in committee. It's not that bad. I'll look forward to it. And then let it be the words at the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302190150	Thank you. In fact, I had just considered saying something in relation to the English, but then I thought that it should be translated into something with foaming cream and something with picking cherries, and I don't really know if it benefits understanding. But there is one brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302190205	Thank you. I think I was the one who started speaking English. I am sorry about that, President. I know that we are not allowed to speak English in the Chamber. In other words, the term creaming covers the fact that not all these things and the social efforts are prepared according to what is important in social terms, but according to what is economically opportune. That's what they call creaming. And what is known as cherrypicking covers up the fact that economic investors can pick the finest berries, i.e. those that make the most profit. After all, the two concerns were intense, or at least they were intense concerns for us when the bill was adopted back in 2018. The Social Democrats promised loud and holy that it was there to protect around. Those defenses are, if not disappeared with this bill, then at least heavily watered down. And then it is fine to follow up again in three years' time, but if in three years' time there have been a few proposals for themes from the fund, which is really creaming, that is, something where you go where investors want to go, that is not politically, what then? I mean, are we gonna drop the construction? It's not like it's a defense, so excuse me, because this isn't a question of it not happening once. After all, it is a question of ensuring that we do not set up a system in which the economy determines which social efforts we put into action in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302190334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302190337	First of all, I fully agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the broad responsibility for our welfare societies includes the efforts that need to be made, also for the most vulnerable, also for the non-profitable citizens, what we should now call them 'the ones we cannot make money on, those who are difficult, expensive, complex, multifaceted, etc. It is, of course, broad in relation to the way in which we prioritise our welfare society, and we have not chosen that much over a block to throw into the social investment idea at all. After all, we still have our tax-financed social welfare model, which, fortunately, many of us are on guard. But if we then zoom in on the small microworld we have opened under the auspices of the Social Fund, then we still have the broad political responsibility for what these are. And now the Enhedslisten rapporteur cannot know, because I think it is only recently that you have been invited to sit and listen at these meetings, but it has been politically the case that the fund has been able to set up themes all the time. I mean, it just hasn't been formalised in the legislation, and then we've been politically related to whether we thought those themes were the right ones. So that concern for creaming, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, would have manifested itself already, and I do not think there is any basis for saying that, and I do not sense it in my political colleagues either. Sorry, it got a little too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302190456	It's gonna be okay this time. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302190501	Well, you can't really know that. In other words, it would not be so bad if, in one individual case, the fund were to come and say to the circle of parties: we have some investors who want to invest in homeless people with abuse. That in itself is not a problem. It's the structure of this thing that's problematic if it happens over a long period of years. So evaluating after three years is not a safeguard against that happening. It's just an evaluation of how many times it's happened for the next three years. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister to state that the protection rules, which the Socialists stood by not even three years ago, were the most important safeguards for this not to be put to shame at all, are now gone and that some other very looser safeguards are now being pointed out. So what's the next step?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302190551	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302190553	But I still believe that there are reassuring safeguards. So, first of all, in relation to what the rapporteur describes with creaming and the setting of themes from the fund, I would like to say that the fund has been able to do so, even in the last three years, and then we have politically dealt with what we think is politically the right thing to do. I would also like to say that the proposal is a clear requirement for the fund to ensure, as far as they can, that there are external investors in all the politically determined themes, and that there is also a search for specific themes, that the fund can also reject investment. So I think there's still some protection. I also think it is quite reasonable, as the SF requested, that, in addition to discussing the overall evaluation when it comes at the end of the year, we commit each other to look at this specific concern. For politically, I fully agree with what Enhedslisten has said about criticism, which has also been raised by a single hearing party, and we have therefore also politically stated in the consultation note that we are in fact in complete agreement with the political ambition that there should be no creaming and cherrypicking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302190657	Thank you, Minister. You must not get up if you do not want to interrupt, but it is quite okay that the Minister was allowed to finish his sentence, and now there are no more brief remarks to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302190718	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302190740	Thank you, President. I am really pleased that we can present this bill amending the Social Services Act on the adjustment of the rent allowance for the residential residences. As it appears, this is a very short text, and for outsiders it may sound incredibly trivial that we are proposing a change of law which merely says that a certain kind of refund should not be deducted from the special benefits of any tenant. But make no mistake: this bill is a hugely important and very important change, because this proposal will correct the inappropriate shortcomings which have prevented the municipalities from securing housing for all citizens in need of special social action. The problem has been that according to Article 163a of the Services Act, the municipal rent allowance for these dwellings was to be offset against the other social benefits or other income-related benefits of the exposed. There was therefore no legal basis for exempting the grant from these benefits, and the people at risk would then end up losing more money than was the intention of the Service Act when it was adopted. In the view of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Elderly, this has led to municipalities either opting out entirely of the rent subsidy or having failed to offset the citizens' contributions, which the legislation did not allow. It is therefore very important that we spread this system so that more particularly vulnerable people have an opportunity to move from a temporary residence to a more stable life under normal conditions. And as the Church's Cross Army stated in their hearing answer, it is a fundamental failure in a welfare society when municipal help is not present for a vulnerable person who is going to his own home. This is particularly relevant for housing for integration, the purpose of which is precisely to ensure a gentle transition for both the addict in the shelter and the schizophrenic patient who has just been discharged from psychiatric treatment. And here the rent subsidy also plays an important role. When a person has been affected by the dark side of life and has ended up on the bottom of society, the funds are often quite small, and they need help from the public, both to support themselves, but also to ensure a secure framework to lean on to get back to society • a little like we give supplements to painkillers and to a walker for an older lady who has just been hip-operated after she has broken her hip. However, if the hip patient were affected by the same lack of legislation as in the case of housing for integration, this would mean that we would have to deduct therollator's price from the old lady's medical allowance. Both would, of course, hurt terribly for no reason and would be contrary to the intention of the legislation. That is why it is also a very good thing that the proposal here should correct the situation. I would also like to express my special thanks to the incredibly large number of parties who have responded to the hearings during the drafting of the draft law. And, as the rapporteurs are aware, the government has also made substantial changes in the light of the consultations and much of the content has been taken out because it was simply not sufficiently accommodating in relation to the challenges facing the socially vulnerable and to which they heard organisations and authorities working on a daily basis. Then it is planned that there will be a major bill later, such as: to extend the right to housing for integration to women affected by violence in shelters. And then we will work on a more concrete content of the division of responsibilities, especially after-care for citizens with special social problems who have been living in shelters. This and the rest of the content of the proposal will then be put forward at a later stage, together with other initiatives aimed at strengthening efforts in the field of the homeless, which we in the Committee on Social Affairs have also discussed very much, and where we have also been visiting, among others. Finland. We also need to look at the women's crisis centres, and here the parties have given very good input and suggestions, which will be assessed, from SAND's proposal for a social pedagogical start-up package to the Danish Women's Society's desire for a uniform practice for the settlement of threatened women and children in a new municipality. I think this proposal is very good, and it is some very good input that has come from social organisations and public parties, and thank you very much for that. That is why, of course, we can support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191250	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191256	Thank you. And thank you for an interesting speech. After all, I got a little curious about what further legislative proposals the rapporteur is talking about coming in this area. Because in the Danish People's Party we have a desire to equate section 109 of the Service Act with section 110. In other words, it is the case today that Article 109 of the Services Act states that women's crisis centres are the responsibility of the rapporteur if he is not aware of the need to help women and children. But it doesn't say anything about men. So how does the rapporteur view this issue? And it is from the rapporteur's speech where the rapporteur said that the Social Democrats are apparently working on a lot of things in this area that I would like to hear about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191353	Thank you very much for the floor. It is absolutely certain that if you come from a shelter situation and come from a shelter and are pressed because of the threats that are in your life, you need to be able to get a start up somewhere new. And some of what we have seen when we've been out to visit and have touched on these situations for people, whatever it is for a gender, is that there are different dynamics, so there are various reasons why you come to a crisis center, whether it is a male crisis center or a women's crisis center and the submerging in what are some specific issues that are, I think it is really important that we also get addressed. Some of it, among other things. Women's organisations point out that, if you come from a crisis centre, you can get into a housing for integration, and you have not been able to do so until now. It's really important if you're gonna get a good start on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191455	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191458	Well, that is something that we in the conciliation circle have also agreed earlier on in the pool of rates. However, what I am asking the rapporteur is about what is in Article 109 of the Services Act. Today, section 109 of the Service Act states that you must help women and children. Will the rapporteur help to write men into that paragraph? That's one thing. The second thing I want to hear about is equality, because I sometimes think that social democracy discriminates against men and women, even when we talk about men's crisis centres. After all, we had the whole problem of the proposal on psychotherapy, that is to say, we wanted to give women and children help in the women's crisis centres, but we had to fight for the funds to be allocated at all, and that became an experimental scheme. So I just ask: where is the equality of the Social Democratic Party in relation to that, also overall?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191549	In fact, I think it is incredibly interesting and, by the way, thank you for an always good debate with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, but this adjustment is actually about putting men and women on the same footing. So when you come from a women's crisis center, you can actually get into a retirement home. I always think it is essential to go in to discuss gender issues, and I also think that it is essential to discuss in a different context what issues are for women and what they are for men. This bill helps to equate that when you come from a women's crisis center with your children, you can get a retirement home and have that help in the back to get up and get back to life. I think that is very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191629	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191631	Thank you so much. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to follow up on my colleague from the Danish People's Party's Party's good question, because we have tabled a proposal which I believe is almost simultaneously the same. But it is always pleasant; then you can have a proper debate on an important subject. Because it is about equality, and the rapporteur's party is, after all, a party that really wants to talk about equality, at least when it comes to women, but it is as if what with men is not quite part of the debate on equality. Not long ago, I had the Minister in question time, in which I specifically asked whether the Social Democrats would support a proposal from the New Citizens' Party specifically to neutralise section 109 of the Services Act. And as far as I remember what the Minister told me now, one must not stop me from being able to quote it literally, it was that, according to some agreements relating to the reserve, one was uncovering the target group for section 110, which is such a rather strange answer to a question which should actually be quite simple to answer. So now I ask the rapporteur quite specifically: will the Social Democratic Party support gender-neutralising Article 109 of the Services Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191748	I think it is really important that we make some good decisions with legislation here, in which it is a matter of ensuring that the rent subsidies you receive are not offset. It is really important that if you are on the edge and receive one type of benefit, then you should not be set off against another type of benefit; they should not be equal. And with this bill, you get equated, so if you come from a women's crisis center, you also have the opportunity to get this grant. This means that whether you come from a shelter or a women's crisis center, you have the opportunity; then you are equated to being able to get the foothold that is necessary. I think that's really good. I can see that it is a very small text, but it is something that is of great importance among the citizens. We have also discussed this before in relation to other issues, including with New Citizens, among others. in relation to the whole problem of homelessness, which I also recognise as being of concern to New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191858	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191900	Thank you for your commendation. This is certainly an agenda that we are very concerned about. But the rapporteur just did not really answer my question and it was actually quite simple. Because we can stand by and agree that there are a great many initiatives here. Now this is an adjustment of legislation already in force, one might say. So it is an adjustment of it and there are a lot of good things in it; we do not disagree on that at all. However, I asked the rapporteur a very specific question. When the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party are so concerned about equality, we are in complete agreement, but I am just saying that men are usually not part of that equation. Will the rapporteur support gender neutralisation of section 109 of the Services Act, thereby creating real equality for men and women in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302191947	I think it is very important not to mix pears and bananas together. So when Jane gets out of a women's crisis center with her two kids, with this adjustment, she has the chance not to be set off. If Jens comes and has to live in the new crooked homes in Mårslet outside Aarhus, then he also gets the opportunity not to be set off in the various services. I would very much like to take part in the discussion that is being held by the new citizens and the rapporteur, but I really do not think this is appropriate in relation to this proposal. But I would really like to take part in discussing this another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192029	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Fatma Øktem. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192044	Thank you very much, President. This bill is intended to ensure that rental allowances for residential accommodation are not deducted from the dependents of the citizen. The target group for housing for integration is vulnerable people such as homeless and socially vulnerable citizens. These people get a rent subsidy when they move into a retirement home, so they can afford to live there. In accordance with the previous rules, the amount is to be deducted today from their cash benefits, and this has meant that among other things: fewer homeless people have been offered a retirement home. The draft law ensures that rent subsidies under Section 163a of the Services Act for integration housing are not deducted from the citizens' social security benefits or other income-related public benefits. This will ensure that the rules are brought into line with the original intentions of the scheme back in 2005. The proposal is designed to ensure that, inter alia: More homeless people are being offered a place of integration, and we in the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192215	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I can see that the next rapporteur is ready, and that is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192245	Thank you. I'll be very brief. We in the Danish People's Party support this bill, which ensures the legal home that is missing to ensure that the rent allowance for the residential residences is not deducted from the citizen's contribution. At the time of the introduction of the housing services and the possibility of rent subsidies, the Ministry stated that the necessary legal framework was not created to ensure that there was no set-off. But with this bill you will have to live up to the intentions that were, namely that you cannot deduct from citizens' income-related benefits or other income-dependent public benefits. After all, this is of great importance to those involved: some of the most vulnerable people in our society. So the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192343	Thank you. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192352	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for highlighting the lack of a legal basis to ensure that the rent allowance for a retirement home is not deducted from the dependents of the citizen or from other income-dependent public benefits. This is a good thing, as it has been shown that the uncertainty about the legal basis has led to the municipalities failing to use the scheme. The scheme is not currently being used in the way it was intended to introduce the possibility of rent subsidies under Section 163a of the Service Act for an integration home. It is a shame, because housing for integration is a very good offer to vulnerable citizens to live for themselves, but with a safe safety net. This gives the citizen an opportunity to create his own everyday life and live in his own home. The integration homes ensure a gentle transition from temporary accommodation to normal living conditions. This is precisely where the rent subsidy must help to ensure that those people are able to enter their own homes. The organisation's response to the consultation focuses on the subsequent assistance, i.e. post-service care, to citizens with special social problems who have resided on a temporary basis. SF looks forward to future discussions on how we can improve the homeless area and is positive about the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Elders are planning to address it later. The SF supports the proposal to ensure that rent subsidies for housing for integration are not deducted from the income of the citizen. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192522	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is already ready, and that is the rapporteur on the Radical Left, Mr President. Henrik Vinther.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192546	Thank you for the floor. The bill has been given a different title along the way. This is because a piece of the proposal has been taken out after the consultation phase. We support the part that remains that we are discussing here. It makes sense to ensure that you are not punished if you move into a residential area; that is completely contrary to the intention of getting more people into their own homes. On the other hand, I have also noted that there were some critical remarks about the part that has been taken out. That is why I look forward to an overall initiative in the area of the homeless, where that part has been looked at more closely. However, as I said, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192624	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are also no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur here. Now it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Pernille Skipper is that me? I'm sorry). It is difficult for parallel negotiations to take place. Welcome to Enhedslisten's rapporteur and this is Bill No. L 169.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192644	Thank you, Mr President. I'm in on what bill it is, but thank you. The unitary list may support the proposal. It makes no sense, of course, that if we want people in homelessness, who are on public services, to be in a place of integration, they should be set off against their benefits, because that will not work. It has not been intention, but a legal basis that has been lacking. Now we create that legal basis, and of course we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192719	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192732	Thank you. The aim of the draft law here is to ensure the necessary legal basis for ensuring that rent subsidies for a retirement home are not offset against the dependents of the citizen or other income-dependent public benefits. The draft law provides for an adjustment of the rent allowance for housing for integration, so that it will be as envisaged in the original agreement, namely that the citizen should not be set off against rent subsidies. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192815	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. It is being prepared for the New Citizens' rapporteur to come to the platform. Welcome to Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192835	This bill is an adjustment. A legal basis is provided for something that was not created by the 2005 legislation, as far as I remember, and that is now many years ago, one might say. I think there are a lot of good initiatives and initiatives in the whole idea behind this. We basically look at it very positively and have just a few questions to which we need answers during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192908	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As I do not see the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance present in the Chamber, we are ready to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly up here. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302192927	Thank you for that and thank you for the good reception of the bill. It is quite true that, with this bill, I hope, we will ensure that rent subsidies for housing for people with special social problems, such as housing. We have had a stay at the shelter, we have a wider use than today, because we have corrected the fact that there is not the legal basis needed to fulfil the original intentions of introducing this rent subsidy at all, while at the same time establishing the possibility of housing for integration. So thank you for that. Then there has also been some debate on those parts of the draft law that have been postponed, among other things. The debate on women's crisis centres, and we will have the opportunity to discuss this when those elements are re-tabled, and I imagine they will, in the wake of the fact that we will have a wider discussion between parties on combating homelessness. We have agreed on that at least, so I am also going to follow up on this and we will also have an opportunity to discuss some of those elements in greater detail. So that is not part of the legislative proposal here, and those elements will of course be re-consulted, etc. on the back of the political negotiations that will be about it. So thank you for the positive receipt of the bill. We are, of course, making ourselves available for any questions that may be raised in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302193053	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302193110	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302193130	Thank you for the floor. I have looked forward very much to today, because we have to deal first with the draft law on the continuation of the Board of Patient Safety Monitoring and the introduction of mandatory follow-up and learning courses under supervision. This is legislation that has an enormous impact on the development of care for the elderly. In Denmark, from Skagen to Bornholm, thousands of elderly people receive care and care from the municipal care of the elderly every day. Dedicated staff provide their best for older citizens to receive the necessary help and care. However, all of us in this Chamber have also had humiliating pictures and stories from the care of the elderly burned in our memory. We have all seen that in some care centres there can be a rugged and inhuman culture that does not belong in our common public care for the elderly. There is nothing to excuse a poor culture in which unworthy treatment of the elderly takes place, and that must of course be stopped. At the same time, we also know that in the public sector there has been a lack of hope in some places. Many employees have experienced for many years that their professionalism has been neglected in favour of packages and services in minutes and seconds. We all know that when public care gets bad, it can end in an evil spiral. Staff in the care of the elderly tell me that sometimes they avoid answering when people ask what they are working with, because it is as if they should answer for all the bad things you hear about the care of the elderly. Municipalities also find it harder to recruit and that the joy and motivation of the employees disappears when the bad stories hit the front pages of the newspapers. That is why I also very much welcome the continuation of the Patient Safety Management Board's supervision, including, in particular, the mandatory follow-up and learning programmes. Because when mistakes are made somewhere, the problem must of course be addressed where the problems are, and the way to work, that is to use the mistakes to become wiser, to use them to increase professional awareness and pride, is the right way to go. We also know that public employees are motivated by making a difference and by experiencing that their professional skills are really at stake and that their knowledge is of value. It creates work satisfaction and pride. With the mandatory learning and follow-up programmes, it is possible for both managers and employees and culture to be put at risk in a completely new way where it is required. We owe it to the elderly, we owe it to each other, and not least to all the dedicated employees. The agreement on the implementation of the reserve for social and health measures for 2021-2024 also includes the agreement that the Patient Safety Agency should undertake an information effort in relation to the possibility of submitting a letter of concern to the Board. I very, very welcome that. In several of the cases we have seen in the media, the Board has simply not been contacted, but with this bill an effort will be made to ensure that citizens and relatives know about the possibility of contacting the Board for Patient Safety. Like I said, it's just a really good day today. This bill is a small step on the way to enhanced public care for the elderly. Social democracy supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302193456	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302193503	Thank you for that, and also thank you for your speech. I fully agree that this is a good proposal, but it is also a small proposal in relation to everything we could do to improve the elderly. And it's very much needed. I note that in his rapporteur's speech the rapporteur said: unworthy treatment must be stopped. And we fully agree with that in the Danish People's Party. However, I would like to hear what the Socialist rapporteur will do to stop unworthy treatment, including stopping some of the stinging vessels we have unfortunately also seen in the care and care sector. In the Danish People's Party we have made several suggestions in the Parliamentary Chamber for improvements, including in relation to the fact that it should be a requirement to obtain public criminal records, and we have put forward proposals for an older law, etc. But what exactly will the Social Democratic Party do to ensure a dignified treatment of our elderly people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302193605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302193608	Thank you for the question. The rapporteur and I have talked about this before. And I firmly believe that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to hire people and also to supervise them. And we have a very clear expectation of the municipalities doing so. It is true, then, that this has not happened everywhere, and this must of course be overcome by intensifying in relation to recruitment procedures and also simply by creating more proximity between employees and management. It is, after all, one of the major flaws that are currently being made: there is simply too much distance between management and employees. And that is one of the things we in the Social Democratic Party are very concerned about: creating more proximity so that managers can be closer to the employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302193647	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302193649	Okay, so the Social Democratic rapporteur says it's the responsibility of the municipalities. So I ask as an elected politician, a country politician: what will the rapporteur do if some people fail to fulfil their responsibilities? If you do not provide dignified care for the elderly, if you do not live up to the supervision you need and all these things, what will the rapporteur do? It is not always possible to say: well, it is the responsibility of the municipalities. We also have to say as a country politician: it simply has to be stopped, it now requires action from us, and we have some proposals. But what is the Social Democrat proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302193730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302193732	After all, we cannot sit in Christiansborg and remotely manage public care for the elderly, neither employees nor managers. But we can give them the tools they need. After all, the tool we are negotiating today is a tool that can be put in place if mistakes are made and something is not to happen. But precisely when it comes to management in everyday life, it is the municipalities that are responsible. And I cannot and will not sit here from Christiansborg and remotely manage the management of the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302193801	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is ready, and that is the rapporteur, Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302193824	Let me begin by welcoming the Minister for the Elderly. I think this is the first bill we have together, and I've been looking forward to it. I would also like to start by saying that this is a good legislative proposal, L 170. I am saying this not only because the Left is part of the political agreement that is behind the bill, but because it is absolutely crucial that we focus on the supervisory task, now also with mandatory learning and follow-up programmes, when the Board for Patient Safety has issued an injunction. It is important that the care staff can learn from mistakes and improve, and it has been extremely sad to follow the older area since the summer of 2020, when TV 2's heartbreaking documentary with Else Marie Larsen from Aarhus rolled over the screen and shocked us all when we got a sad and realistic insight into the everyday life that too many older people are being offered. What happened to dignity, care, empathy when the staff, without blinking, let demente Else Marie Larsen hang on a lift to support, clearly uncomfortable with the situation, but staff insist? It must and must be done better. The bill here is a step in the right direction, but the trees do not grow into heaven with the proposal. Follow-up and learning processes are a tool that is used when the damage has occurred before the damage occurs. And we have been waiting for something to come from the Minister for the Elderly, so we avoid everyday scenes and documentaries like the one we saw on TV 2 and an older summit in the autumn is what it has become. Yes, nothing has happened in the area of the elderly, apart from a tiny financial priority and the agreement on the elderly, of which the draft law here is a consequence. And frankly, I don't understand why the government wants to be familiar with itself. I hope that when the Minister for the Elderly goes to the platform here a little later, she will give an answer to Else and the thousands of other elderly people who live every day a wretched life in nursing homes where a sick and stubborn culture prevails. When does the government react and take the elderly and their relatives seriously when they ask for help and dignity? The political agreement of last year also launches an information campaign so that the relatives know which authority they can address with their concerns. And it's really good for now. But we have to go where it is not necessary for relatives to have concerns and where we should not see instructions from the Patient Safety Board because this happens when the injury has occurred. I am aware that the situation is not equally gloomy in all nursing homes. I also meet carers, who every day contribute a great and important effort with high professionalism. We need to turn the ship around, we need to bring all nursing homes, we need to get some new balls on the soup, and this isn't about sending more money. It is about culture and visible management with a clear framework. The Left wants boards to be set up in all municipal nursing homes, where relatives also have a place, so that we listen more closely to the relatives' voice. Left wants us to have independent older counsellors who can tell our elderly and their relatives about both the municipal and private offers. Our elders have the right to freedom of choice, but they need to know what they can choose from when, for example, we have to know what they can choose from. talk care, care or the last home: nursing home. And let me dwell for a moment at the nursing homes, or rather, the home home of free care. For you have all probably heard of Dagmarsminde in the Grass. Here the leader, May Bjerre, has managed to put dignity, care and empathy first to the joy of the elderly. And she doesn't get any more money than you do in a community nursing home. Why not create a framework so that free thought can have free play in a free country? If we are asked in the Left, our position is clear: there must be far more free-care homes so that the elderly have a genuinely free choice and something to choose from when the very last home is to be chosen. I sincerely believe that choice contributes to our playing each other better and improving quality, including in nursing homes. To return to the beginning: the Left supports the bill, but we do so with a clear expectation that the government will take responsibility and not just present legislation in the area of the elderly, which is backward-looking. Action is needed that points forward, and I hope that the Minister for the Elderly agrees with this, but also acts on it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302194310	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302194339	Thank you. It is very positive when some of what is raised in a debate also results in a legislative proposal, and the Danish People's Party had a high priority in the negotiations we had, including enhanced supervision of learning processes. All the unhappy examples we saw in the care homes behind the facade, as well as many inquiries from relatives and organizations etc. calls for political action. We have seen a salutation in some places in our care and care sector, which is completely unacceptable and which is still clear on the retina. In the Danish People's Party we want improvements in the area of the elderly, and we have therefore also made a number of proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber, including the proposal for an elderly law which should help strengthen the elderly area, including with a focus on norms, so that no night watchman should go alone with 42 residents. Unfortunately, the proposal did not receive the support of 90 mandates. But what we have witnessed in several places in relation to our older people is simply unacceptable and I cannot bear that. I cannot stand to see more older citizens being abandoned by what is called a welfare society. It is heartbreaking, it is unacceptable and it is not worthy of a society and it requires action, and it also requires action in addition to strengthening supervision that the Danish People's Party fought through through through the reserve. I think it is very good that among other things. The Elders Case and the Alzheimer's Association have brought a number of things to our attention. The Alzheimer's Association has among other things: written for all of us, and I quote: In 2021 we have the opportunity to change course and tackle the root of nettle. The lack of quality in the health care of patients living in nursing homes is a joint task. As members of the Folketing, you have a part of the responsibility for the Danish health service, the regions, the municipalities, patient associations, the professional organisations and other associations. Together we can make the difference to the many thousands of nursing homes and raise the quality of care, care and care in nursing homes. However, this presupposes that nursing homes become an equal and integral part of a coherent healthcare system, and that puts the quality of health care in focus, including in nursing homes. I agree that we need to sit together and find viable solutions, because we simply cannot be otherwise familiar. I am also concerned because the elderly are now under the responsibility of the Minister for the Elderly, because I am concerned about the health professional perspective in relation to the elderly. I know that there are a great many skilled workers in the care and care sector, and I am also well aware that there are very good nursing homes, and thank God for that, but what we have witnessed is unacceptable and we must never accept neglect. This proposal for enhanced supervision of the care of the elderly, which must, at the same time, engage in follow-up and learning efforts, is, of course, a small step along the way, and it also follows up on the political agreement that we have reached. After all, in the future, the Elders' Inspectorate will have to deal with in-depth concerns so that the Elders' Inspectorate can capture patterns of concerns from relatives and employees. Because what else was the documentary showing? It showed precisely that it was so difficult for the relatives to talk to the municipalities, because there was a very, very long way to go. So it is certainly important now that these concerns are addressed. The Patient Safety Management Board will in future also have to draw up a report on concerns in the light of the new registration practices. It also follows from the political agreement that the rapporteurs in this area will receive annual reporting on concerns with regard to the Elders' Supervisory Authority. The reporting must also be publicly available in connection with its transmission to the Folketing. It should also be noted that the Board for Patient Safety under the agreement must also undertake this information effort precisely in order to create a knowledge of this possibility of submitting concerns to the Board. Funding is also provided for new registration practices and information efforts. When you receive an injunction from the Elders' Inspectorate, you must follow up with mandatory training courses for the travel team under the Knowledge Centre for dignified care for the elderly in the Danish Health Authority. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that there is a need for permanent risk-based supervision and not just an extension of current supervision. Elders The case highlights in the consultation answer that in this context, the Elders' Supervisory Authority must have added more resources so that supervision can also be established against this background. We have, of course, been given more funding in this area, but the question is whether that is enough resources. Elders The case also notes that the Board for Patient Safety should ensure that adequate resources are provided, and here they also think about the follow-up and learning processes themselves, and it is of course important that resources are provided for the follow-up and learning processes. So I want to know whether the things I have said in my rapporteur's speech are something to which the Minister is sensitive. When will we be invited to negotiations, including with regard to permanent supervision? That is something we must have looked at, but it is as if it were not on the part of the government. There has been no action whatsoever in this area in relation to the fact that we are being called for real negotiations to improve the area of the elderly. So I look forward to the Minister's reply as to whether we will be called for some negotiations and when we will be called. I can't figure out this time. Time's up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302194944	The time has exactly elapsed, and that is why the lamp on the platform is beginning to shine red, and when I could hear that the rapporteur was about to round off, that was why I did not just stand up and stress any further. But the speaking time has been used to the letter, and there are no brief remarks, so thank you to the Danish People's Party's rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302195012	Thank you. In the summer of 2020, the Danes witnessed TV 2's documentary...The homes behind the facade... I can understand if it is the case that some people find it difficult with the light here, but it is because there is simply no light in the clock. So we can't actually see what time is. I'm just gonna say that carefully. And now I'm starting over, and then you all know it wasn't Karina's fault, and it's not my fault if I go over time either. Now something happened. In the summer of 2020, the Danes witnessed TV 2's documentary... the homes behind the facade. The failure to care for Else and Niels made it clear that, unfortunately, not all vulnerable elderly people receive the necessary care and care they need. It is unbearable to experience neglect of care, and we are bound to think that it could have been our own vulnerable relatives who failed to be understood and thus not get the help they need. Let me make it clear: The vast majority of the country's senior staff make a fantastic effort every day to provide our older people with the best possible care and care I experience myself. However, the documentary shows that we need to be even better able to understand precisely the most vulnerable citizens in the care of the elderly. I would like to take this opportunity to make it clear that if we are to meet the specific needs of such vulnerable elderly people, we must have a very good knowledge of the citizen. Because the way we got to know Niels, we also understand that he is asking for help to go to the bathroom. If you knew Else, it was well known that she was clearly opposed to the treatment that she received. For this reason, we in the SF also believe that it makes sense to strengthen the supervision of elderly care so that we can do even better. I have been pleased to note examples that under the auspices of the Agency for Patient Safety and their travel teams, the Elders' Authority focuses on the very well-being of vulnerable elderly people and the employees' attention to special needs. These are examples that are suitable for a follow-up and learning process. That's really good. However, in the SF we also believe that there is a need for continued development of supervision, both in the area of the elderly, but also in the social field, because perhaps more future-proof and fine-meshed supervision could have been tightened up and health supervision in the social field and educational supervision in the area of the elderly strengthened. In this way, perhaps there could also be a debureaucratisation of this particular area. Today, for example, municipalities often experience supervision that does not work together, nor does supervision become quite as holistic as one might wish and as needed. For example, lack of care may, unfortunately, result in serious health problems, but for vulnerable citizens in need of help, life is still much more than toilet visits, food and bath. Summing up, I can say that the SF is voting for the amendment of the law. We hope, however, that in the near future the government and the Danish Parliament will be involved in discussing a more comprehensive approach to supervision, because we think that makes sense in the long term. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302195349	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur will be ready, and that is Mr Beazley. Henrik Vinther of the Radical Left. There are comments from the Chamber on cleaning and, experimentally, it is said that it has not been cleaned, but it has been approved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302195420	Yeah, it's very clean here. I think it's absolutely amazing. And since we are discussing how quality can improve, I am only glad that some people here too take this matter very seriously. Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. We can support extending the Elders' Supervisory Authority until 2024, also, as the previous rapporteur said, with a special look for the vulnerable elderly, and we can also support the introduction of mandatory learning courses for care units that have been ordered by the Elders' Supervisory Authority. It is important that we ensure that counselling is proportionate to the challenges identified by supervision, so that it is proportionate to the demand and aims to work with culture and workflows. It is also important that we take a look at the reporting that comes annually, so we look at the patterns that are in contact from employees and relatives. And then there is a general discussion of what will happen after 2024, just as we need to have a general look at the supervision of the care of the elderly, and we look forward to that I think there is already a meeting in the calendar. However, as I said, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302195519	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302195530	Thank you. After all, as several have said, the bill deals with the continuation of so-called Older People's Supervision and also the introduction of some mandatory courses, so that if a unit has been ordered, a follow-up and learning course with an outgoing travel team must be accepted. Enhedslisten supports the bill. We have been very curious, both when this supervision was introduced under the previous government and in ongoing discussions on supervision, as to whether we really cover the elderly sufficiently, when we also know that some of what pushes the care of the elderly is a lack of resources, a lack of proper standards and hands, and a lack of quality which can result from it and which results in a great many places. There is not really any supervision that takes care of that, just as there is also a black spot, as to where to complain, if you like. are relatives and have concerns about the level of care. That is why, of course, it is also positive that we are trying here to use injunctions, not only as criminal sanctions, but also as something that can lead to follow-up and learning processes. We think that's good. We also support the continuation of the Elders' Supervisory Authority as a result of the agreement on the social reserve that we made, but as others have also put forward from the platform, we want us to look more closely at the supervision of the elderly. It must in fact be possible to complain, including about the level of care, and it must be possible to use concerns and unintended incidents as something that you can stand on and learn from professionally in the individual nursing homes and in home care and not just as a punishment to the employees. To pick up, I would like to say that the Enhedslisten supports this proposal and we look forward to the negotiations which the Minister has called for Friday morning, in other words in a few days' time, when we can have a comprehensive discussion of the supervision that is taking place in the area of the elderly. There is no doubt that we are dealing with one of the most basic welfare areas at all, but one that has also been failed through many years of cuts and because of too little focus, and we cannot fix it with supervision alone, but it is certainly part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302195826	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are, in fact, a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It is first to Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302195836	Thank you for that and welcome to the rapporteur, who is, after all, a new rapporteur for the elderly. I can say that we in the Left are very much looking forward to cooperation. I'm gonna ask you a question. Now Enhedslisten's rapporteur says long-standing cuts in the area of the elderly. In other words, apart from the downgrade in the area of the elderly since the new government came into being, what exactly is it for cuts that the rapporteur believes have been made in the area of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302195905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302195905-2	It was so that until the current government came to and made Finance Act with Enhedslisten, for the first time for 2020, we had almost 10 years when Danish welfare was underfunded, i.e. where in crowns and ears did not follow the same with per. citizens who needed care in e.g. care for the elderly. And it is clear that when there are more older people, but there is no corresponding increase in money, it really leads to deteriorations or cuts per person. Citizen. And then the rapporteur of the Left will say: Ah, but we sent more money. And that's right, but it was less per. Citizen who was in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302195945	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302195947	I just have to ask you something. In other words, the rapporteur is not responding to what I am asking. What are the real cuts that the rapporteur believes have been made in recent years? Where is it that has been cut in the area of the elderly? I fully agree that under Helle Thorning-Schmidt there was less money for welfare, and that it affected, among other things. the educators and our children. But where is it really that has been cut in the area of the elderly? What is the rapporteur's position when the rapporteur stands and says many years of cuts? What's been cut off?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200018	I simply think I have answered once, but the technical expression of that is the demographic feature, that is to say, we are becoming more children, as the rapporteur says, and that is wonderful. The population is growing in general; there are more people in need of welfare; there are also more and more elderly people who live longer and need care for the elderly, either in the form of home care or in the form of a place in a nursing home. Both under the former Helle Thorning-Schmidt government, where the right-wing gave a majority to economic agreements with the municipalities and the government, and when the right-wing itself sat on power and put the majority to economic agreements with the municipalities and regions, welfare was underfunded. There was less money measured per person. citizens of welfare, including care for the elderly, and this has, of course, had consequences for the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200109	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200112	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we have fought every time we have entered a negotiating room, both for negotiations on the Finance Act, but also here on the reserve. Now the rapporteur himself was involved, so I hope that the rapporteur noticed that we were travelling in the area of the elderly. But there is one thing I would really like to hear if Enhedslisten can support. Instead of talking us apart, maybe we can meet. In the Danish People's Party we have made a proposal about an elderly law. The rapporteur and I are currently debating the child's law, which is why I would like to hear from the Enhedslisten whether Enhedslisten can support the fact that we have minimum standards, the rock card scheme and the right of care written into the legislation. So far, there have not been 90 mandates behind this, and not the government, but the Enhedslisten must be able to support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200215	I even believe that Enhedslisten is both mother and father and third parents of exactly the proposal on minimum rights for the elderly. Those who have been with for a while can remember one of the famous financial agreements, or at least the attempt at the same under the Thorning-Schmidt government, where Enhedslisten just carried in that one had to have some minimum rights in the care of the elderly in relation to getting in the shower, getting out to get fresh air and, at the very least, getting a minimum of care. It was rejected by the then government as interference in the autonomy of the municipalities, and it ended up with Enhedslisten leaving the Finance Law agreements for the same reason, and I think it was the Left that went in and voted on the Finance Act instead. So, yes to minimum rights in the care of the elderly. Whether or not to make it as an old law, I am not quite sure, as I am a new rapporteur, but minimum rights in the care of the elderly are certainly an old Enhedsliste proposal, which we only want to work with the Danish People's Party to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200318	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200319	That's nice to hear. In the Danish People's Party, we are happy to cooperate across political divides if it is that we can get our policy through, including it is good that Enhedslisten supports it. However, the proposal on an old law itself has actually been first examined here in Parliament and welcomed as a new rapporteur in this area, and it has to be put to the vote at some point. That is why I would urge Mrs Pernille Skipper if the rapporteur is still saying so; sometimes when people get married and change their last name, they forget it, so I just had to be absolutely sure about it and the Enhedslisten to vote in favour. So I think that Enhedslisten should look at the proposal. The Enhedslisten is also welcome for a cup of coffee, and so are the other older rapporteurs. If anyone wants to make better relationships, I'd be happy to invite you to coffee. It may be that we can meet across political divides.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200423	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200425	Who's still gone is my name. Thank you, President. I can inform the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that pregnancy and marriage no longer need to go together. It's not two of each other's dependent sizes in 2021. I am a little surprised that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party thinks this is so surprising. After all, it is about eight years ago that the Enhedslisten had for the first time a clash with a government for which we were parliamentary. We ended up leaving the financial law negotiations for the reason that we could not have minimum rights for the elderly in a situation where the right wing had voted for an economic agreement that actually deteriorated the care of the elderly. This was our opportunity to take it into the financial law negotiations and leave them again. It's not that new, but coffee we can always drink better late than never!
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200523	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. After the lady with the hand spirit has taken care of the platform, it is ready, welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200552	Thank you, President. After all, we have seen some horrible examples in the care of the elderly, where the elderly have suffered direct neglect. These were horrible pictures that TV 2 could show from care centers around the country. Who doesn't remember Else, hanging in a strap in the ceiling of her bed, making stool in her bed, while she cried out: Ow, ow, ow? And there were several staffs standing around her talking degradingly to and about her. And who doesn't remember Niels, who didn't come to the bathroom, who was downset and who confusedly walked around and didn't understand why no one would help him? It is such incidents that call for supervision, which is why we in the Conservative People's Party are also pleased that the pilot scheme for 2018-2021 is continuing. It's not because control does it alone. The most important thing in this context is that the municipalities live up to their obligation and provide the elderly with proper, good and loving care. It calls for management, management and again management, i.e. a leader who knows what is going on at the care centre, a leader who knows the residents and who himself is on guard at regular intervals. After all, there should be no need for control and supervision at all. But there is. That is why we are also pleased with the agreement we made on the implementation of the reserve for 2021-2024, so that the Management Board for Patient Safety can pass. The Elders' Inspectorate also has the task of providing advice and learning so that the good examples, the good culture and the high quality of care for the elderly can spread to places where things do not work optimally. We look forward to the committee reading, where the proposal may be further qualified. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200805	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302200827	This bill is a coinage of not just one, but two agreements that New Citizens are not part of the rate pool and reserve. But I think it is a welcome opportunity to discuss supervision again; we have done so in the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection as it was previously called, now it is called the Committee on Social Affairs and Older People's Rights, and then we have also discussed it here with supervision. A great deal has been said about the terrible cases we have seen in the area of the elderly. There have been some really terrible cases of this raison d'être that we are talking about, that is, the fact that we have simply seen these massive failures, where the elderly have been humiliated and mocked in various places in the country. And that, of course, calls for action. What I think is absolutely essential when we discuss supervision is that we should try to see whether we cannot carry out overall supervision to ensure that what needs to be done everywhere is done, precisely that there is dignified care for the elderly. It is also, of course, a question of being able to understand what is actually included in, for example, the price ^ and again; it is something that goes back on both the social and the elderly areas ^ so this is that when it is a municipal offer, it is very difficult to understand exactly what the price of a nursing home is. It also makes it very difficult to establish the possibility for private players to enter the market, because there are a lot of things that, like blurring. So in order to really ensure proper supervision, it would be very useful to separate the budget and the accounts of, for example, the municipal nursing homes, so that it was completely transparent exactly what the price was. That's one thing you could do. Then there have been some really good points in many of the consultation answers that have been here, both this complaint about the injunction, and then a good point has been made about it with this travel team, so that you might want to look at making a model a little like VISO, where it is some external players who are aware of it. But in general terms, I think it's mostly about • it does for us that there must be transparency, so that you really have to supervise both the municipal public services, but of course also with the private and the self-serving. I read an article the other day about Lise Nørgaard, who as a very soon 104-year-old has come to a nursing home. And in this article, her granddaughter or great-grandson describes, I think it was her granddaughter, that suddenly she had to hang up, because now she was going to Friday bar. It's just such a story where you think it's the kind of place you want to be. The place where Lise Nørgaard lives is called Else Marie, a self-serving home in Humlebæk, and Dagmarsminde has also been mentioned earlier, which is also a private initiative. And in New Citizens we believe that there must be much shorter from the good idea to real action; there must be a real free choice for the Danes; the money must follow the individual citizen. And then we have to have far more free-care homes, because that is where there is very short from the good idea to really put it into practice. Having said that, we welcome this proposal, even though we are neither part of one agreement nor the other. We would urge that there should be overall supervision in the area of the elderly in relation to supervision, but that genuine supervision should also be ensured, including with the public sector, because it is therefore very, very difficult to be transparent as it is today. And then I have some questions for the committee procedure, but I almost always have, so I look forward to having them answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302201235	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And since I do not see the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, it has become time to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302201259	Thank you. I would like to sign for the good reception, and I would also like to say that the rapporteur of the Left is absolutely right: this is the first time I have been standing on the floor in the capacity of the government's Minister for the Elderly, and I am extremely pleased about that; I have looked forward to it very much. And I am also pleased to see what the debate here today shows very, very clearly that we are • and good for it • many who are passionate about ensuring dignified care for the elderly in Denmark. The elderly are one of the cornerstones of our welfare society. It is one of the absolutely fundamental things in the contract we have with each other in the Danish welfare model. You work a long life and you answer yours, and when you can no longer, because old age prints you experience loss of function, and the body is worn out, you have to be comfortable that the community is there for you. It's a basic value. It is one of the focal points of the very, very high level of trust that we have in Denmark, to our welfare institutions, to our social institutions, to each other and, of course, to some of the things that have borne us well through a huge crisis like the Corona crisis right now. That is why it is also extremely worrying when you see that the security of our care for the elderly is going the wrong way, with confidence in our care for the elderly. And it is not only since the heartbreaking pictures ran over the television screen in the summer of 2020 that it has gone the wrong way. The latest measurement from TrygFonden struck back, I have to say, record for the Danes' lack of security that there will be the care and care for those they need when they grow old. When I say it again, it's because it was the second time you broke a record. This means that the development has gone the wrong way, and that is why this is something bigger than the television broadcast last summer about the care homes behind the facade, but it must also be said that the pictures, I think, have been burned on the retina of all of us. They are the expression of a rugged culture that does not belong anywhere in the care and care of our most vulnerable and vulnerable elderly citizens. But it is just to say that if you draw the picture that it is something that has gone wrong for the summer of 2020, then I think you have a wrong time horizon for it. These are problems that go further back. I also have to say straight away that as much as I am in favour of the shared ambition on behalf of our care for the elderly, I am just as glad that we now have a government that will actually hold hands under welfare and ensure that the money comes with when there are more older people and when there are more children. For that is one of the structural main reasons why care for the elderly is under pressure as it is. This does not mean that money does all of it. There is no doubt that they do not, because we face other major problems and challenges in our care for the elderly. The recruitment challenge in itself means that if we had a money tree in the backyard and could throw all the funds unlimited into the care of the elderly, then we would have the challenge of getting qualified employees to take care of the weakened elderly. Many of them have many different types of disability, chronic illnesses and therefore it is quite crucial that we also have a well-qualified staff for it. As a welfare society, we need to increase our security and confidence in our care for the elderly. We need to get something done about the rugged culture that is around. We need to get something done about the fact that you run too fast far too many places. It is as one of the structural things I have mentioned about basically holding hands under welfare, so money comes with when there are more elderly people; when there are more children. This has been done by the present government in the two previous economic agreements, with a total increase of over 3 billion. kr. We're gonna keep doing this. We also intend to put forward a welfare law in the Folketing, which hopefully can enjoy broad support, so that we ensure that this will always be the case in our welfare societies. In addition to that, we have lifted the area of the elderly in two financial laws. And I would like to say that the second structural condition that needs to be met if we are to improve our care for the elderly is the part that concerns our first financial agreement in the area of the elderly and then the welfare agreements that have been negotiated and which need to be transposed into legislation and which, in the case of three municipalities, concern the area of the elderly. We set the area of older people completely free in the municipalities so that employees and citizens together are free from over-management, free from bureaucratic demands, free from over-control, minute tyranny • can organise the right, proper deserving effort. It was also part of the financial resources allocated to this government's first finance law in the area of the elderly, which means that right now 31 municipalities are engaged in concrete experiments that are developing a fight with new public management override, with autonomous teams, alternatives to the BUM model, etc. And a new pool will be created this year, because the second structural condition for us to have a more dignified care for the elderly, for the security and confidence of the Danes in the care of the elderly, is that we get rid of the over-management, the bureaucracy, the control that is in our care for the elderly today. This was a rather general approach, some might think, to a relatively concrete legislative proposal, but I think that both the reason that I am here for the first time as an elderly minister, but indeed also the very broad one, and I think that is a positive debate that has been here among the rapporteurs, called for it. As far as the specific legislative proposal is concerned, we are, after all, implementing the political agreement that we reached in the autumn with a very broad majority of the parliamentary parties. The only party that did not participate is New Citizens, who have stood here in the platform and also been positive about the bill here so thank you for that. I am very pleased that there is generally such support for extending the State Older People's Authority's Board for Patient Safety, and also very pleased that there is support for the introduction of mandatory follow-up and learning courses in line with the Elder's Supervisory Authority's instructions. Then I think I'll say to you that I'm really glad to hear that each of you is thinking about how this supervision can get better, how we can think it together, how we can expand it, how we can make sure that maximum learning comes out of it. I think that we all agree that the purpose of supervision is not to hit someone on top of the head, but to make sure that if there is quality that lags out there, then we get it right for the benefit of older citizens who deserve proper quality. And that is why I am very pleased that we are gathering for negotiations, for a meeting, with me already on Friday about supervision, and that is where you will finally have to play further than you have done here today. So, before I go all the way, I just want to say that I've been to a friday bar in a nursing home, too. It is then two different municipal nursing homes that I have been to Friday bar not that that is what has to be counted, but I would just like to mention that before it sounds in this Chamber, as if you can only think new thoughts and go to Friday bar in private nursing homes. Then I would say that perhaps Mette Thiesen points to something that is relevant in a larger context when she points out that it is private nursing homes that she connects with something as fun as Friday bar, namely that the framework around our elderly care is too rigid, and the freedom one has in the private nursing homes, I think as we should have as ambition to make sure is everywhere, so there is not this inequality between the very tight framework for the public nursing homes and the freer framework for the private nursing homes. It is also outside of the bill here, but now Friday bar was brought to the court, and then I remembered that the last two Friday bars I've been to were there long before the corona was actually in two municipal nursing homes. So you can do it there, too. Well, I'm sorry, it got a little wide-ranging but I'm really happy to be here with the rapporteurs, and I'm happy for the broad support for the bill here. We can and must do more than that, but this is a really good step. So thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202050	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister. First, it is from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202055	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. I fully acknowledge that the government has reached an agreement with the KL, in which there is also some economy. But frankly, Minister, it sounds hollow when the Minister, as we have heard so many other government ministers do, stands and flies with the fact that you are now holding your hand under welfare. For the truth is that if you look at the municipal budgets, you cannot see across a broad board that there is a promise in the area of the elderly, and if you think back to the documentary that TV 2 showed, there were two, three, four staff around Else while she was hanging in the lift. So it's not about economics, and it's not about more staff. This is, of course, about what several people in this Chamber have also pointed out today, namely that there is a rugged culture out there in the nursing homes, and there is no answer, Minister, to send more money. I have not seen a single proposal from the government in terms of how we solve the challenges of care for the elderly, other than a bill here, which we all support, because it is a political agreement, and then there has been an older summit. What's the government's response to Else and all the relatives out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202214-2	Thank you. Well, it's not about the economy, just, and it's not about enough of well-qualified employees, just. But the fact that one can stand by and say that a dignified care of the elderly with time to care and with the right professional and high quality for the weakened elderly is not about the economy and is not about staff, I simply disagree with the rapporteur of the Left. That's what it's about, but it's not just about that. It is also a question of ending, yes, a stunted culture, and it is also a question of ending the over-management that is of our care for the elderly and that removes the forces from what is the primary, namely the relationship between the elderly and the employee who is supposed to help the elderly to live a life of self-determination. We have negotiated this, the rapporteur and I have reached a political agreement that the rapporteur's party ended up not participating in. It is the welfare agreements which are precisely about giving three municipalities the opportunity to be radically freed from the over-management that is in the area of the elderly. We must free them from restrictive legislative ties, and their municipalities, their municipal councils, have committed themselves to doing the same, so that we can see in earnest what it frees up with added value, more time for caring and of higher quality for the elderly, and I agree with the rapporteur that this is also a crucial part of the answer. However, it can be said that it is not about the economy and it is not about staff, as the rapporteur says, I simply disagree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202339	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202340	I fully agree with the Minister on this, and I also said in my rapporteur's speech that we must have care, dignity and empathy back in care for the elderly. But what is the government's answer to Else, who hung there in the lift, and Niels, who walked in Randers with feces in the diaper? What is the Minister's response to the thousands of relatives who have complained first to the staff, then to the management and in some cases also to the municipal council about the care that their loved ones have received and nothing has been returned? Nor have they received anything from the government: two small financial priorities and an older summit. What is the government's response to the thousands of relatives who want dignity, care and empathy back?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202427-2	Thank you. I simply have to say to the rapporteur of the Left that it might then explain why, when the government was in power, the Left did not give priority to keeping its hand under the core welfare regime and chose to give priority to tax cuts rather than to keep the money going when there were more children and more older people. Well, you don't have to roll your eyes, because it is really the case that if you underfinance welfare, there will also be more pressure out there. That is not the whole answer, and I have not been heard here today. There is a structural explanation for an over-pressed economy. There is also a structural explanation, which is about over-management of an older sector that has pushed the professionalism and the meeting and the relationship between the employees and the elderly into the background, with governance regimes that went to our care for the elderly, as if it could be regarded as a market. We must get away from that; we must do away with that. And I just want to say that in addition to a boost of over 3 billion. kr. So far, every year, in addition, a compensatory reform which ensures better welfare opportunities in all the municipalities in the country, there is a financial agreement, the latest one, which promises 1.8 billion. kr. I think it is very good that the rapporteur from the Left should come out with his hand and say: 'Spelvasse', that is nothing. I can see from the President that I am about to keep my mouth shut because time has passed, so let me round off on a positive note: I look forward very much to discussing further with the Left rapporteur what we can do. So let us conclude on a positive note to ensure a more dignified care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202554	There are a number of people who would like to make a brief comment. It is first Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202558	Thank you. It is therefore interesting to have a former elder rapporteur now as Minister for the Elderly. That's a commitment. But what I really want to say is that we had to fight at the time. That is when we had something set aside for the dementia action plan. We had 470 million set aside. kr., and when it came to continuing it, it was a struggle to get the government to do it. But what I really want to say is about several things. It's about economics. It's all about betrayal. It's just, you can say, simply about empathy and respect for your fellow human beings. So that's a lot of things. But what we have to measure is also the quality of the efforts we make. After all, we can see that the rock map scheme, which was a good arrangement, which the Danish People's Party fought for and got implemented, is being saved away in several municipalities. What we need to measure the government on is also how the level of service in the municipalities has been raised, so is it raised in the municipalities? How does the individual elderly feel about improvements? That is where you have to go in to measure it, rather than discussing things back and forth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202709	First of all, we have delivered on it with two municipal economic agreements, where we let the money go with the increasing number of children and the elderly and, by the way, add money; then two financial laws where we have lifted both the area of the elderly, but of course also, for example. elementary school and daycare institutions, which also help to make room in the municipal economy; then the structural track that is about keeping hands under the welfare economy. The second track is to make up for over-management and provide space for professionalism. Empathy calls it the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Yes, there is some empathy that is needed so that we do not see the stunned culture we have seen. But part of this is also about having the professional qualifications out there with the employees, and it should of course be a broad group of employees with the many different needs of our older people today. There we have, among other things. In our Finance Act agreement, the first thing we did was to ensure that 31 municipalities are now in the process of developing concrete new approaches to the management of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202814	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202816	Well, thank you. I'm completely confused to see Rasmus Helveg Petersen as president, but that's fine and congratulations, both of you. But what I really want to say is that how does the individual older ones feel; how and how much has the service level increased in the 98 municipalities? Because you could say that we are keeping our hands on it, but perhaps the individual elderly cannot feel it. There can be savings anyway and as we have seen with the TV 2 documentary, that is not what this is all about. It is also a question of guaranteeing the quality of the efforts that are being made. Now the President has risen, but can the Minister send to the committee how the level of service has been raised? How does the individual elderly feel the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202908	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202909	Thank you. But of course the Minister and the Ministry answer the questions that might be asked by the rapporteurs. As I said, this is about more than just means. It is also about there being employees with the right professional qualifications, and then it is about getting rid of that over-management. And how does the individual elderly feel that all three bets are in progress and that they are focused on them? Well, hopefully it knows that the elderly are more likely to experience an elderly care service. At least that's my ambition... where the individual has an impact on his/her own everyday life and on the help he/she receives and where the individual experiences being heard. This requires, among other things, that: a fight with that very rigid BUM model, and it is now the municipalities that are developing on the basis of the first financial agreement we made on our parliamentary basis, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302202956	Thank you. The next person who has signed up for a brief remark is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302203001	Part of the parliamentary basis, I would just like to say to the Minister. I cannot stop speaking, and then it will be such a pseudo talk where I ask the Minister something, but where is it really the others I ask something, right? I know you can't do that, but I'm gonna do it anyway. I agree with the Minister that this is not just an economy. But one of the problems is that there are more and more elderly people in need of help and fewer hands coming to them is that the level of training is too low, so there are more and more unskilled people behind the hands that are then in the care of the elderly. One of the things we have also done and secured is that we have got more people into sosu education, among other things. by ensuring that people over the age of 30 can take the education of 110%. In other words, it is possible to do so, and that the funds we have set aside for the last financial law, which was intended to guarantee 1.000 more employees in the care of the elderly, should not only be spent on more employees, but also on a training requirement that an existing employee should be trained in order to improve the level of education. So this is a question of actually doing something not only with crowns and ears, but also by ensuring a better level of education so that we can have a higher level of professionalism. And yes, quite a lot has actually happened in a very short time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302203114	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302203116	Thank you. And, by its very nature, I agree entirely with that. I would say that some of the things that have worried me a great deal, while I have looked at the area a little at a distance, because I was not a minister. I have been working with the elderly since I was elected to the Danish Parliament, since the years when I was Minister for Health, so little I can not help keeping up with the debate is when we see the fall in attendance at the sosu schools. It is deeply, deeply troubling, deeply distressing. That is why it is so important that we have made bets in relation to it. Then we will also have to look into how we do this, because there is also a need to have a multidisciplinary approach to solving this, because it is also weakly eating elderly people who need someone to know something about nutrition. They need, some know something about meaningful activities in their daily lives. In other words, the interdisciplinary nature that must be present means that it is not only social and health workers, social and health assistants who are part of the solution • or nurses or educators or ergo or physiotherapists but a combination of it. I think we need to seize many different places to solve what is about recruitment. We need to get more people into the profession, we need to keep more people in the profession, so that you do not have to get out of the profession if you have ambitions. We must ensure that those who are happy to be in the profession also have the opportunity to stay a little longer and that those who want to be in full time must also be able to do so. We need to have an incredibly large number of hands at work, and I am glad that we have addressed some of the very important ones already.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302203227	No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302203256	The debate is open, and first of all I welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302203309	Thank you. We should have such driving-rest-time provisions in this Parliament. After four bills you could use a little break, but I wonder if I can get my papers out while we're driving. I can. What we need to do now is a resolution requiring the government to put forward a legislative proposal for more flexible assistance for families with children with disabilities. I would like to thank the proposers for highlighting this important issue. Let me start by saying that the government is, from the outset, positive about the intentions behind the proposal and agrees with the need to look at the issues that lie behind it. The aim of creating a more coherent and flexible framework for families of children with disabilities is also fully in line with the government's own objectives. Therefore, back in 2016, Social Democracy was also co-sponsors of B 143, which in some respects resembles the proposal here. At the time, I thought that we had found a good solution: to set up a working group to identify challenges and find good examples in terms of creating greater and better coherence in action towards children with disabilities and their families. The working group concluded quite clearly that there were and are no legislative barriers to the same helper being able to follow the child, even if the hours were allocated according to different rules and for different purposes. As a follow-up to the working group and at B 143, there was broad support for providing funds to mature and test models for better coordination of interventions for children with disabilities and their families in the 2018 rate pool. The project is still in full swing in the 12 project municipalities and will be completed with an evaluation at the end of the year here. The preliminary experience from the project is positive. They suggest that both municipalities and parents have experienced that the work on the tried and tested models with more coordinated procedures has both strengthened the coherence of efforts and dialogue and confidence between the municipalities and parents. With reference to B 143, the Danish People's Party has now once again tabled this motion for a resolution, B 110, which requires the government to put forward a bill for more flexible help for families of children with disabilities. In this context, the proposal is to give the individual family the opportunity to manage the aid themselves by giving parents the right to change the family's total hours of aid granted according to different rules to a cash amount available to parents in the planning of helping hours. The proposal will give a great deal of freedom to parents, but also a great deal of responsibility, and perhaps even more responsibility than many people will have to bear, namely the responsibility to ensure that the child gets the necessary help and help at the appropriate professional level that he needs for the hours. It will therefore no longer be the municipality that is responsible for the efforts and that the efforts of the individual child with disabilities are of the right quality. It'll be the parents. With the proposal, it would therefore be the parents themselves who should be responsible for finding the right helpers and ensuring that the helpers have the necessary qualifications, for example. to carry out tasks related to personal care and respiratory care. Parents will also be responsible for ensuring the pay and working conditions of helpers, temporary work in the event of illness and holidays etc. We believe that it is a great responsibility to pass on to those families who may already have some additional challenges in making everyday life work together. Normally it is the parents who know best what their child needs, because it is the parents who know their child best. But if it is left to the parents to decide for themselves on the use of the hours, it is at risk that the parents choose to use them on something other than what the child professionally needs, and the child will, by its very nature, in many cases not have the opportunity to object. Regardless of the good intentions, parents may end up in a situation where, for example, they are in a situation where they are in a situation where, for example, they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in a situation It is important to me that, for the sake of children, we do not take that risk, because increased flexibility must never mean that the child's need for help and support is not met. In short, I am not in favour of the solution described in the proposal, in which we give parents a bag of money in hand, for which they must buy helpers themselves, both because it will place a huge responsibility on parents and because we should not run the risk of children not getting the help and support they professionally need. That is why the government cannot support the resolution, but, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, we share the good intentions behind the proposal. That is why I would also like to commit myself to continuing the work of creating a more flexible framework for the families of children with disabilities. I therefore look forward to picking up the promising 2018 stake pool project so that the good experiences can benefit more families. But in addition, the question of how we can create better coherence and greater flexibility in the efforts will also be an element of my and the government's general reflections on the development of the disability area • reflections which I look forward to discussing on an ongoing basis with the other parties of the Danish Parliament. With that I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302203826	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302203831	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we have made several proposals in the field of disability precisely to improve aid. This is about families with children with disabilities. But in other areas too, we have made proposals. After all, there are several examples, Minister, of the fact that there are simply so different arrangements in relation to how to use your helper and how to not use your helper: then the helper at school must not be used, and if you have a respirator, it is someone who has been trained in it. So there is simply a need for flexible rules in this area, and I hope that the Minister will read the speech on the muscle loss fund website. There is a good article, and I quote: "The most important thing about helping Johanne is that the lessons follow her needs, so they help to give her a really good everyday life," says Lena Larsen, mother of Johanne, who has muscle loss. This is because there is a need for a more flexible framework in relation to legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302203942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302203943	After all, this is a re-submission of an earlier motion for a resolution, and what has happened since we discussed the motion for a resolution in the House and now I say we, because some are revenants, while others are new people, but we as a collective here in the Danish Parliament are, of course, that a working party reviewed legislation and rules and clearly concluded that there are no legislative barriers to the same helper being able to follow the child, even if the hours are allocated according to different rules and for different purposes, that is to say what the Danish People's Party rapporteur is calling for in the rules. We were therefore able to clarify that last time this motion for a resolution was tabled. In addition to that, we agreed to try out different models for better coordination. Because I very much agree with the rapporteur that we must be able to do better. And that is now under way in the municipalities, and we will get the results here at the end of the year. That's very good. The results so far indicate that there has been both an increased positive development in the experience of being involved, transparency in the purpose of the support and increased confidence in the competences of the caseworker. Well, let's roll it out. It is just to say that something has happened since this resolution was tabled last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204058	A brief remark from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204101	Well, not so much has happened that families have felt the big difference. I have to say. I mean, I have several examples here, among others. a family that is prevented from going on vacation abroad. They are willing to pay for the helper's flight and stay, but they are not allowed to take the necessary help on vacation. In fact, this is a debate that we have also had in this Chamber in the past. So there are just some barriers for these families that can get a more flexible everyday life by being able to organise their own everyday life in terms of how it is best connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204139	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204141	It is, after all, a completely different dimension to what the resolution is about, as I read it at least. We have also discussed this in the past, because the Danish People's Party has also retabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. That is just not the resolution we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204158	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democrat, who is getting ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204234	Sir. President, thank you for that. Yes, in these times it is essential to be thorough about getting the alcohol off properly and getting away from it, and I think we have actually been very good at that. If nothing else, I am reminded of it from the chair of the President, so thank you for that. In fact, I think that the Minister has been very keen here to acknowledge, first of all, the proposers of this care and attention that must be paid to people with disabilities, but at the same time also to say what it is that does not support the government, and now it cannot come as a surprise to my colleagues in this House that I support the fact that we do not recommend supporting the resolution. Having said that, I think that this general discussion on people with disabilities is essential and necessary. I have just been part of a meeting of the CP Association, where the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, too, Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, participated, and the whole discussion about whether we have any disability on the agenda, i.e. whether it is at all up in a place where you take a position, i.e. that which, among other things, is. One million votes and Danske Handicaporganisations have jointly questioned the fact that it has actually shown that it is necessary to have these general disability discussions taken. Whether it is the proposers or whether it is the organisations, it is important when we look at how people with disabilities thrive; whether it is children or whether it is adults, that is an important point. So the fact that we in the Social Democratic Party cannot support it does not mean that we do not believe it is essential to create a safer and better framework and a flexible framework. What one might perhaps be able to address, and which I was at least referring to in what the Minister said, is the concern that may lie in what the parents have when they already have a child who needs a lot of help, and at the same time also in the comfort that has been given that one can actually gather the help and get it. So that is in the words that I want to say no to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204515	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204519	I often wonder about the social democracy, also as to how they vote good proposals into the Parliamentary Chamber. I am also surprised because, as the Minister also said, we have put it forward here before, in other words something similar and where the Social Democrats were proposers with us. In fact, we had a majority outside the then government, and what happens during this debate is that the Social Democratic Party gets cold feet and together with the Left goes with and gets a working group set up, while what was needed was to give families a more flexible everyday life so that it could cover the total needs of the family and the child. And here we are again, where the Social Democrats once again make an apology. But I would really like to hear: what has the Social Democratic Party in this Chamber made of proposals to improve the area of disability?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204623	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204624	I just don't think that point is fair. In fact, I have great respect for the very great commitment of the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party in the field of disability, but the minister in the field of disability has done the most wild, important project in the field of disability, namely the evaluation of the specialised area. So it is not that, when we have that cover, we cannot see where it is going. I know that we have had the discussion, including on social media, about: why not act now if we know the problem? But it may be that we know a great deal of the problems, but if we are going to solve things properly, we have to uncover it. So I simply do not think it is fair and proper, because the Minister for Social Affairs and Disabilities has actually done the most important and essential thing, namely to carry out an evaluation for the specialized social area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204731	Thank you. Mrs Karina Adsbøl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204734	Well, that's quite fair, because it's not just now that we have a red government. I mean, the disability area, as the disability rapporteur, I have been debating since 2011 and working for improvements, and I just don't remember any proposals from the Social Democrat Party. So that's really what I'm asking. An evaluation is very good, but what I mean is that we can already act now. Yes, we can. Because there are major legal challenges in the area of disability. We see newspaper articles about it every day, and when you have proposals in this Chamber, the only thing Social Democracy does is to shoot them to the corner, and I think that is just a shame. Because families need help, and people with disabilities need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204818	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204819	We're totally stellar about that. That is why, when you read the terms of reference for that evaluation, I do not know whether the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party has recently done so, you can see that some of what we have done and what the following groups have done, for example. is to look at people with autism. It is so profound a handicap where it is so central that we will have a look at it if we are to make proper solutions. So I don't think it's fair. In fact, I think that this minister has acted to such an extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204855	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further short comments to be made. We shall now give the floor to the next rapporteur, Anni Matthiesen from the Left. But not for a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302204921	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party and Mrs Karina Adsbøl for raising the debate here in Parliament tonight. It is the case that we are currently discussing a motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party proposing that families with children with disabilities should be given greater freedom to plan their own everyday life. And I would like to start by saying that, particularly in the area of freedom, we are very fond of the Left. The proposal is that the family should be given the opportunity to manage its own assistance by changing the family's number of auxiliary hours allocated to it to a total amount which the family can instead translate into helping hours which make sense to them. And yes, we really do take a positive view of this, but I also have to say that it is actually the case that right here and now in these months some people are actually looking at this area. After all, the rate pool parties agreed to create a working group to look at these things and make some recommendations, and we look forward to receiving those recommendations. They should preferably come here at the end of this year, if the corona has not put things off again, but we hope not, because it is important to have a look at these things, i.e. whether there is more we can do. All in all, however, I can say that we have the position in the Left that, when we have also helped to set some work in motion ourselves, we do not really think it is decent if, in the middle of the whole thing, we suddenly take some new decisions that may even go beyond the work that we have asked someone to do. So I think in Jutland you'd say "clap the horse," take it easy, and then we'll have to look at it when we get these recommendations. I would also like to say at the end that I have also had a discussion with the Muscle Loss Fund prior to this motion for a resolution, and yes, the Muscle Loss Fund could also say to me that it is true that these recommendations are being awaited, and I actually understood that they could also respect the fact that it was necessary to wait before any further action was taken. We will not therefore be supporting this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302205151	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302205155	I'm having a little trouble with patience in politics, because things take so long. There is a proposal, and then something comes up, and then it takes a long time again, and it has taken a long time in the field of disability, so my patience is not really there anymore. I fully agree that we need to look at some things, including the specialized area, but we can easily act in the area of disability, we do not have to wait for all sorts of studies. It is easy to improve the daily lives of families, even in the area of adult disability, even now. Action can already be taken on the legal challenges that exist. Having said that, I would like to know whether the Left will be involved in a joint report, so that we keep to each other that action will be taken, that we ensure that holistic help is provided to families, that it becomes more flexible for them in everyday life. That is precisely what this motion for a resolution is intended to do, namely to help these families who have children with disabilities. Does the rapporteur agree to go that way so that we have something tangible when there are negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302205307	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302205309	I would like to say that I can certainly understand that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is finding it difficult to be patient. I know very well from myself that sometimes things may seem too slow here at Christiansborg. But I must also be honest and say that what may reassure me a little in this matter is that, with regard to the experiments that have been carried out, it actually suggests at this stage that something really good is coming out of it. There have been some indications that there is already an increased and strengthened coherence in the interventions that are taking place. So from that point of view, I have to stick to the fact that we will be voting against this resolution if the Danish People's Party chooses to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302205400	Mrs Karina Adsbøl for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302205403	I understand that, but what I asked was whether we could try to make a joint report so that we can be sure that action will be taken once some study has been completed. Because lots of studies and lots of experiments have been done in relation to a coordinating case, but that does not mean that it is being implemented. Action must also be taken. Can you hold up the Left that they want to be involved in the trade, or is this just going to be somewhere else, and then maybe you can choose to use these good methods?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302205437	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302205438	Well, what I can promise the rapporteur is that if there are any recommendations that there are some things that we clearly need to address here in the Folketing, then of course we in the Left will also get to grips with those things. I can promise the rapporteur that. The rapporteur knows me well enough to know that the disability area in particular is one of the things that I am passionate about, so we will look at the recommendations when they come and if there are things that it is quite obvious to address here, then I hope that across the parties we will agree to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302205514	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøll, who has chosen to divide her speaking time by only five minutes now into the regular series and then five minutes to the end. Mrs. Karina Adsbøll, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302205607	Thank you. I would just like to say to Mrs Anni Matthiesen: there is nothing to wait for. We might as well act now. I have also noticed today that the Muscle Dwindling Foundation writes on Twitter I quote: A jumble of paragraphs often makes it impossible for children's families to make everyday life stick together. Well, there's a need for action now. And that is why we have also tabled this motion for a resolution, which is precisely about requiring the government to submit a draft law amending the Social Services and other laws, in order to ensure that help to parents who have a child with disabilities is also granted on the basis of an overall assessment. It is not a new proposal, it can be said, but it is a little different from the previous one, but the intention is the same: that a legislative proposal should be drawn up to ensure that aid is coherent, flexible, manageable and coordinated and covers the overall needs of the family and the child, and that it is irrelevant to parents that aid is based on several laws and regulations. Parents who have a child with disabilities should not fight a hard fight against a bureaucratic system, as it unfortunately seems they are going to do today, and the high figures for the rate of conversion, as there is in the appeal system, bear witness to this. In 2018, 47% was added to the total. in 2019 the number was 51 per cent, and in 2019 in 15 municipalities there was a conversion rate of over 70 in the children's disability cases. Families are being thrown into a time-consuming and not least exhausting fight against the public before they can get the help they need and the right to, and this reinforces their general uncertainty about the future as parents of a child with disabilities, and it also increases their stress. But as a relative, you have to be a parent, a case worker and a lawyer. For many citizens with disabilities or mental difficulties, the help they receive from the municipality or other player is essential for them to have as independent a life as possible. Therefore, it is also crucial that one should feel safe in the meeting with the municipality and have confidence that the municipality makes the right decisions, and that confidence is very low, as we can also see is justified. At the moment, there is also a citizens' proposal from #enmillion voter, which is precisely proposing that the disability area should be deprived of the municipalities, and that is because of the treatment people encounter in the system. It's not good, it's bad. A mistake, a complaint is too much. Behind every case is a person or family with serious challenges in their daily lives. Parents have a hope that the system treats them with care and respect, but they soon experience reality and it looks quite different. Parents of children with disabilities need a lot of help from the social system in order to make their everyday lives work together, and most often they are also affected. It is quite ordinary people who have often had no experience in the public system in advance, but who then experience how incredibly difficult it is to get information and get the right help and support, and how bureaucratic it all is. In addition, parents often also experience suspicion in meeting with the public. Many people find that they have to fight a hard fight and get a lot of documentation to get the things that they obviously need to be granted. This may also mean that in several cases parents will seek the help of independent social workers, as sometimes it can be really, really difficult to get the help they need from the public sector. Today, a great many of the rules are being administered, you might say, by several case-handling agents, there are many changing case-handling agents. Cases are also dealt with on the basis of the principle of sectoral responsibility, so the treatment depends on whether it is under the Health Act or under the Service Act, the aid is to be granted, or whether it is from the school, the aid is to be granted, and families are often in contact with several different case officers, depending on the sector which provides the assistance. Therefore, with this proposal, we have a desire to create a more flexible aid for people with disabilities, so that, like parents, we can manage things. And no, it is not because they have the great desire to be an employer or anything else, but what they simply need is that you can make and provide flexible help that can make everyday life hang together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210124	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210127	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would really like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether it is most important for the rapporteur that freedom be given to parents or that the best offer be made for the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210145	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210148	Well, I don't think one of them excludes the other. I can only note that, since we had this proposal and dealt with it here in Parliament with the same intentions in 2015 and 2016, no improvements have been made in this area. There has been no improvement for the families we are discussing here today. On the contrary, we see a great deal of distrust with regard to the system and with regard to getting the right help and support. So our basic desire is to provide flexible assistance in relation to this area, not to be dependent on whether aid has been granted from health legislation or from school administration or from service legislation, and to think all of it together, so as to avoid the silo thinking that always exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210248	Thank you. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210252	Thank you. To conclude, I would like to agree with the rapporteur that there are too many places where there is silo thinking. I think that at the end of this question I would like to call on the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. So, I can say that it is true that we have dealt with this several times, and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has been very skilful and enthusiastic about bringing it to the Chamber again and again, but could it be an idea to try to collect a majority so that it also moves something rather than the Danish People's Party making the motions alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210334	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210337	So, Mrs Matthiesen, that is precisely what this is all about: creating a majority of 90 seats. But then, when the Danish Parliament repeatedly shoots down these proposals, they do not hit the Danish People's Party. I am not the rapporteur; it is the families that are involved that are affected when the proposals are not adopted in this Chamber. It's not me. I have proposed joint reports in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, and I have been standing on this platform since 2011, when I was elected, fighting for better conditions and a better framework for disability, and I continue to do so. And I'm trying to make a majority every day. I just need somebody who's a little reasonable who can see the sense of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210421	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210424	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we share the intention about this with the fact that families should have the opportunity to choose for themselves. That is why we are also included in the 2018 Rate Pool Agreement, which has led to a study being carried out at the very moment, which has been completed by the end of the year. So I would really like to hear if the rapporteur would acknowledge that it may seem a little strange that, in the midst of this investigation process, if this proposal were now supported, we would have to follow it while a study is actually being carried out. Was it not an idea to wait until this investigation is completed and then look at what it results in and then make a political agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210513	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210515	I just want to say that there is always some kind of investigation going on. The reason why this study was launched at the time was, of course, that we had a political majority in this Chamber for us to make a flexible package of aid for families and children. There was, of course, a majority, but the fact is that social democracy ran out of the majority. That's why we're doing some things in relation to this thing that needs to be investigated. But, well, it still goes away, and the families still haven't gotten a flexible and better everyday life. They have not had a strengthened legal certainty, and the error rates in the Ankestyrelsen have still not fallen. So then there's a need for action or we can wait here until we fall down. Well, there's a need to strengthen this area. And we always have to wait for something. But action is needed now, and we can easily act, and we can act even more easily when we get the report, because a great many things are needed in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210615	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210618	Thank you. But now it is always good to look at things in depth and get some people to go into detail before we make decisions, so we have a proper knowledge base to make decisions on. So I guess that's why there's a lot of research going on, and that's quite good in my world anyway. But I would really like to follow up on something that has been said, because I actually share the view behind the rapporteur's question, namely that if the Danish People's Party really wants a majority in favour of this motion for a resolution, why has it not been tried in advance to get some parties on this motion for a resolution, if that was the real intention, that is to get a political majority in favour of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210702	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210704	You could see what happened last time when we had a majority in this area, because people ran out of the agreement anyway. I have tried to obtain a majority for a report in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment on improving conditions and conditions in the field of disability. However, it is interesting that every time the Danish People's Party makes a very good proposal here in Parliament in the area of disability or something else, the parties are obviously too proud to vote for it. Well, I'm just saying again: it's not me that you hit personally by not improving conditions in the field of disability. I have testimony in all the inquiries we receive every day from the citizens who write to me about how they have meetings in the public system. They're the ones I listen to. And that is at least enough evidence for me to know what is going on in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210751	There are no more brief comments. We thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl. The next rapporteur is Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF in a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302210815	Thank you. As a society, we have a responsibility to take care of each other and to help those who need help, especially in the field of disability, because we must ensure that citizens with disabilities can live a decent and dignified life. This applies especially to children with disabilities and their families, where we must ensure help to make everyday life work for the whole family. Parenting a child with special needs can be very demanding. Through the Service Act, the Primary School Act, the Health Act, etc. we ensure that these children receive the help they need. But this rigid division can go beyond the family and prevent it from getting the full benefit of the aid provided. The division means that a great many different parties are involved in the administration of the aid. For the child at the other end, this means that the help given to the family is distributed among a lot of different people, each of whom must only help with exactly the area for which they are employed. It simply makes everyday life incoherent and inflexible. In the SF, we are fighting for citizens with disabilities not only to survive but to live their lives, and they must have the opportunity to have an active and decent life, which takes account of the human needs of the individual citizen and which is not determined by whether an agreement takes place inside or outside, among other things. on the school cadastral. Here's the story of Bjarke very telling. Bjarke has muscle loss and has therefore been granted a 37-hour helper at school, which helps him to make school days stick together. There he experiences great exhaustion at times as the vast majority of others with muscle loss, and he also has a high absence because it is not always possible to go to school. According to the school, on these days when Bjarke is not in school, the helper is going to be a substitute in the other classes. Both Bjarke's parents work full time, so the days when Bjarke doesn't have the strength to go to school are really hard to get to hang together. Instead of helping Bjarke at home, so that there is both supervision and help for him, so that he also could get help in catching up school work, then the helper is ordered to play roundball with the other classes because he must be a substitute at school while Bjarke is at home. That's how it goes until Bjarke is fresh enough to get back to school. There is no point in getting caught up in the framework of aid and forgetting to take account of the child and the family to be helped. In SF, we will continue to fight to meet the needs of individuals for more flexible and day-to-day help. However, we are concerned that the motion for a resolution proposes that a sum of money should be paid to families and that the families should order the aid. SF does not want further privatisation of the area, just as we give priority to ensuring quality in the aid that the child should receive. In the SF, we believe that the best solutions for citizens can be found through close cooperation between the citizen concerned, close relatives and the public institutions. So we agree with the proposers that cooperation and coordination between municipalities and citizens could be much better if the focus was primarily on solving the citizen's problem and was not governed by the municipalities' silo thinking. The vulnerable citizen suffers, and we must do something about that. We must raise the level and ensure that all people with disabilities and their families receive flexible and proper help, and that is why we are looking forward to the future committee dealing with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302211158	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302211202	Thank you. The SF also often votes against, or at least yellow, the proposals made in the Parliamentary Assembly on improvements in the area of disability. I would therefore like to hear the rapporteur on something: what proposals has the SF made to improve legal certainty in this area, to improve flexible assistance for families with children with disabilities, to improve the BPA area, all these things? Today, a legal certainty fund has been voted on, as proposed by the Danish People's Party, and suspensive effect. In other words, the creation of a majority for improvements requires 90 mandates, but how willing is the SF to act in this area? I have proposed a joint report in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment and, if we have a majority in this House, we can act, and the support parties can play a part in this, so that we can get action taken and make improvements in the area of disability.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302211305	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302211308	I would like to ask Mrs Karina Adsbøl to deal with the resolution we are debating today. We simply cannot achieve it if we are to sit down and debate all the proposals that the author of the motion has had before. I have explained it in the past on this platform, and I have also done it in committee, and I have certainly done it in the face, that is why we have done what we have done. In relation to what the rapporteur refers to, you can go in to read on my facebook page why. What I think is really important here is that we deal with the content, and that must be what is important and not who is right or who is making what proposals, and there I can guarantee the rapporteur that the SF is fully prepared to conclude agreements and make improvements that will help people with disabilities, but we will not enter into anything, just because it has been put forward as a proposal when we disagree with the way it has become. Then we can try to talk about it before the proposals are tabled and agree on it together. Well, we have history for having done that in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302211414	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302211417	Yes, the rapporteur can say that. There is some party politics in this around red and blue wing apparently and not so much in terms of focusing on the matter. But I would like to ask, in relation to what has been said from the platform, that the working party has concluded that there were no problems with this and that it could be resolved within the framework, whether the SF rapporteur also shares the view that it can be clarified within the framework currently in place in relation to legislation? At least that's what the Muscle Dwindling Fund is experiencing, namely that it can't, because in relation to that study it's also about how to investigate things... it was instructed to do it within the framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302211458	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302211500	I do not understand Mrs Karina Adsbøl's frustration here at all. If the rapporteur had listened to what I said in the speech, she would know that the SF is very sympathetic to the content of this proposal. There is a lot in the formulation and implementation of what we do not agree with, but I hope that we can work together on that, because it is hopefully now that we should be able to bring about these improvements together for people with disabilities, and hopefully it is not about party color or who put it first and that it should look as it did. I just want to say from the SF that SF thinks there are a lot of positive ideas in this and we are ready to do something about it, and I also hope that the rapporteur will be part of working together on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302211546	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no more inscribed for a brief remark. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Vinther of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302211608	Thank you for the floor. The Radical Left is fundamental for people to be able to make independent informed choices in their own lives, and that is why we have great sympathy for the proposal made by the Danish People's Party, which intends to give families with disabled people access to more flexible assistance. The challenge is that with the proposal we pluck in the legislation and pick before it may be completely mature there is a need to look at it together. There is already a working group that has looked at the framework and concluded that there are no legislative restrictions. There may then be a need to remind the municipalities of this, which is why it is good that 12 municipalities are in the process of testing forms that ensure it. It ends at the end of the year and we want to wait and therefore we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302211655	Thank you, sir. Henrik Vinther. There is no entry for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Sølvhøj from Enhedslisten, who is allowed to prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302211720	Thank you. In four weeks' time it will be exactly five years since the proposal which has been referred to in part B 143 was put forward in the Parliamentary Assembly. The proposal at that time, like the proposal now before us, intended to remedy the problems experienced by many parents of children with disabilities with a lack of coherence and flexibility in the aid granted to the child and family. As Mrs Adsbøl has described, the majority that tabled the proposal did not hold it together all the way through, and that is why it all ended up with the setting up of a working group. It wasn't very pretty. The working group then set up was unable to identify legislative barriers, as the report shows. That is not something that has been thoroughly clarified in the report, I would say, it is just a statement that it could not. And then, instead of trying to solve the basic problem, another venture pool project was launched. When you look at today's latest issue of muscle power, that is, muscle loss fund magazine, which came here a few days ago, you can see an interview with a mother of a child with muscle loss that tells about everyday life. I am not going to go into details and go through the everyday routines outlined in the article, but it is stated that many days are going well, other days are actually not going well. It has given rise to problems that the school helper should not take the child home because the helper can only work at the school. It has given rise to problems when there are vacations that meet the school helper at school when the child is not there because it is the workplace. On the other hand, the child has no helper where the child takes a vacation. And all in all, it has to be said that the description that is corresponds to the descriptions that we could hear five years ago when we first dealt with this. In short, although barriers could not be identified by the working group set up to investigate this matter, it has to be said that they exist in reality. After all, the muscle loss fund has had a hold on this case, and if it was something that could just be fixed by drawing the local authority's attention to the rules, then I think it had been fixed. So we are faced with a serious problem, and I understand that this contributes to the very strong feeling among people with disabilities that it is as if the system is constantly working against creating solutions that work out in reality and that you can say again and again: we need to get to the bottom of this. In the Enhedslisten, we tabled a motion for a resolution before the motion for a resolution, B 143, which we had already tabled a year earlier, in 2015, so it has been going on for a very, very long time. I can hear that there is no majority in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal. We would be happy to vote in favour of this proposal, and it would also be strange, because we have put forward something that was almost identical. Is that as good as what we presented together five years ago? I don't really think so. I think there may be some discussion about the nature of the grant. But vice versa, the fact that the family can manage the aid itself, I do not want to be characterised as privatisation. It is, of course, the same system we have in the BPA area, which I think is a very sensible one, and many call it the world's best aid system. All in all, however, I think that we are once again faced with a proposal for which there is no majority in favour. But I would hope that with the kind remarks that have come from many quarters we will be able to make a report. And I have to say that we have, of course, and this has also been referred to as a very good work in the great evaluation of the disability area, but we must be careful that we do not sweep everything under it. In any case, it would be nice if, in a report, we were to commit each other to having this problem resolved. It may harm them,
ParlaMint-DK_20210302212220	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no sign of short remarks and we therefore welcome the next rapporteur, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302212248	For the Conservative People's Party, it is absolutely crucial that families have the freedom and the ability to choose how they want to behave. That's why we're among other things. also fierce opponents of forced homework and earmarked maternity leave for men. Families should be allowed to choose where and when to do their homework. That is why we also agree and support the intention in this motion for a resolution that each family with children with disabilities should be given greater freedom to organise their own everyday life in the best way possible for those in whom the ability of families to manage their own assistance is guaranteed by changing the total amount of aid given to the family to an amount available to parents in the planning of aid hours according to their needs. Therefore, we also placed funds in the 2018 Rate Pool Agreement to mature and test models for a more coordinated entry. The rate pool initiative with trials with coordinated casework ends with an evaluation here at the end of 2021. That is why we would like to wait for the evaluation before taking a final position on any further issues in this regard. However, we would very much like to be involved in a joint report if we can agree on the content, since we share the intention of family freedom and the opportunity to choose for ourselves. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302212432	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302212434	Thank you. If we can arrive at a joint report, then it may be that we can reach agreement on something which will then benefit the families who are in these very situations and who need a flexible aid system. That's right, sir. Jakob Silverhøj said that we actually know it in relation to the BPA area, the adult area. In fact, there has also been a demand for us to have a BPA system in the area of children precisely in relation to flexibility, so that you can make your everyday life work better. Unfortunately, we have seen that the BPA system is under massive pressure, so there is enough to fight for. But I'd like to hear the Conservatives talk about this area. When we discuss disability policy and discuss the proposal, as we have sometimes done, it is often that Conservatives vote against the resolutions tabled to improve the area of disability. What are Conservatives' visions in the field of disability? What is it that Conservatives would like in the field of disability in order to strengthen help for families and strengthen the disability area in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302212540	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302212543	Thank you. One of the things we are very concerned about is, among other things, that we strengthen citizens' legal certainty. With regard to these high conversion rates that we see in the municipalities, that is not good enough, and something needs to be done about that. This is one of the things we are actually very concerned about finding solutions to so that we strengthen legal certainty for citizens. It's just to mention one area in relation to the handicap area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302212612	Mrs Karina Adsbøl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302212615	So I have to ask: why is it then that Conservatives vote against when we have proposals on a legal certainty fund recommended by the Lawyers' Council and the recommendations we get from outside? Why, then, is it that Conservatives vote against suspensive effect so that you do not risk losing your help while the complaint is pending? Then why is it that Conservatives are voting against a compensation scheme? If you want to do something in this area, I am surprised that you do not make any proposals yourself in this Chamber and vote against those who then come.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302212649	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302212652	Thank you. Now it is the case that we include the proposals in the negotiations. We are currently in the process of negotiating, among other things. Played the Kids First. We are very much looking forward to this, and there we actually have some proposals from Conservatives to strengthen legal certainty in the social field at all. That's one of them. Something to do about strengthening the competences of the case workers to sit with these cases. It is a question of continuing training, but it is also a question of looking at the social worker training: is there anything we can do better so that they are better equipped to sit on these cases when they come out after finishing training and have to sit out in the municipalities with these cases? But that is something I think is important to have in the negotiations rather than to table one motion for a resolution after another.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302212741	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we can welcome the next rapporteur, Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302212803	I can hardly help making a small comment here to the Conservative rapporteur, because I am also very surprised that when you talk about ensuring legal certainty, you sit and vote against a lot of good proposals put forward both by the Danish People's Party and by New Citizens in order to strengthen legal certainty and based on very, very good assessments from, for example, the Lawyer Society. But that's what it is. There is no doubt that we in the New Citizen want decision-making powers in this area to be returned to parents. We disagree diametrically with the premise put forward by the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party, namely that it is not really believed that it is the parents who know best, but that it is best that it is in a dialogue with the municipal ladies and others to ensure it here. We believe quite firmly that the families themselves know best how to shape their lives, and therefore we also support this proposal from the Danish People's Party. We also support the citizens' proposal, which will shortly come when people want to remove the handicap area from the municipalities. It is simply the right thing to do at this stage. We can see how the area is not lifted at all by the municipalities. We can see a massive conversion rate, and we can see families being torn apart and having their lives ruined because this system is just so rigid and so rigid and so cash-thinking. It is characterized by both cash thinking, but also by counterpaveri in the municipalities. The minister says it is a great responsibility, and yes, it is, but there is certainly such a fundamental difference between the socialist, socialist approach to the Danes and the bourgeois approach. We are, in fact, very convinced that it is parents who know the child best and best know how to fit their everyday lives according to the needs that now exist. With regard to this proposal from the Danish People's Party, which is coming soon, and which I really think speaks in part of what we are discussing in connection with this good proposal from the Danish People's Party, we have just proposed that when you take it away from the municipalities, which we warmly support, there should be a citizen's bisidder, as we call it, who can sit and illuminate the matter for the families or relatives involved or anything else, and then it comes to what we call an objective visitation, which then assigns the family help, a little by the same principle as this one, but on a voucher where, in relation to the help you want, you can say how much money you need. Then it is the family that has to adapt itself, and then you can seek help in how best to buy that help. But it is the family who is the master of their own lives. It is the family that decides, and it is the money that follows the family, no matter where you settle in the country. That is common sense. This area has been marked by so much cash thinking and so much rigidity that it has destroyed families, and we simply cannot be familiar with just sitting here. We are several parties that have tabled a lot of good resolutions on how to resolve the problems in this area. Unfortunately, they are being voted down again and again because of cashier thinking, including from in here, and unfortunately also because of, I think, there are some parties in here who unfortunately have very many either mayor posts or many municipal members who are sitting and worried that the area will be taken away from the municipalities, for example. I think that's a real shame. We support this proposal. We think this is a fine proposal. We are also very much looking forward to supporting wholeheartedly and warmly the citizens' proposal that is coming where the disability area will be removed from the municipalities, because it is God's time for us to get something done about this area. It simply cannot go on as it is doing now, and we cannot be familiar with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302213200	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302213204	Thank you. I cannot quite decide whether it is my ears that are curling up out of tiredness or whether it is the rapporteurs who have not heard what I actually said on the platform. I would actually like to ask Mrs Mette Thiesen to quote from my speech, where I said that the Socialist People's Party does not trust parents to be able to do so themselves, because what I said mainly was that that was exactly what we really wanted. I would like to stress that we are not in fact opposed to this proposal. We have some things that we would like to address a little, because we also trust the families. In cooperation with the professional staff, with the municipality and perhaps also with the school, and where appropriate, they must find the best solutions. So I would also like to ask Mrs Mette Thiesen to explain where in my speech I said that we do not trust the families and that we are critical of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302213302	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302213305	Thank you so much. I am so glad that the rapporteur clarifies this. I would love if there were more of the proposals that are being made, both by the Danish People's Party, but in particular by New Citizens who came into being because they backed up not only the intention of the proposal, but wholeheartedly on the whole proposal. I heard the rapporteur say clearly and clearly, and I shall not be able to say whether it is perhaps the rapporteur who has misworded himself or whether I have heard the wrong words, but I am glad to hear the rapporteur say that the SF seems to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302213347	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302213349	Thank you. What I said was that we do not want further privatisation. In fact, we think it is a good idea to grant according to the same paragraphs as you do in the municipalities and that the families can then administer it themselves. However, there are just some wordings in the proposal which point to a path that we do not think should be taken, and then it is that I have proposed that one cooperate and not just so stupidly stand firm on one's own position. But I would like to know whether Mrs Mette Thiesen would be involved in trying to see if there is anything we can do with this proposal so that we can get more people on the wagon. It would be the very best thing in the world if we could come up with a proposal that actually helped these families and especially the children it is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302213432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302213436	I would certainly like to do so, but I do not want to go along with the use of a wording which calls parents and families stupid, if that is what the Socialist People's Party wants. I hope that is not what the rapporteur meant, because I firmly believe that families are masters of their own lives. It has also been said that we could make a report and agree on some things, and we would very much like to do so. However, we will not be supporting the idea that this is an increase in privatisation. We have great faith that the families themselves can make decisions, and if they choose private offers, we think it is really, really fine, because of course they are the masters of their own lives, and they should be allowed to decide for themselves, and of course we should not sit here at Christiansborg. It is the families themselves who have to decide whether or not they choose something private. We are very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302213525	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. The next speaker is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302213551	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. It can go lively when you're engaged. First of all, I would like to welcome from the Alternative and say that they actually support this proposal so thank you for it. And now I also sense that there may be a solution to the fact that we can make a report, at least from SF, Enhedslisten and New Citizens. Then we just need a little more mandates in order to be able to achieve the full goal and ensure flexible help for families with children with disabilities, which is what this is all about. May I just say that in this debate there have been discussions back and forth about this working group, and Jakob Silverhøj actually gave an example of how this proposal has actually been fought on several occasions, including by a majority, which then jumped into the goal. Then there would have to be a study on one thing and the other, and now we are here six years later and have not come to the end of creating a better and more flexible framework because there is no majority in favour of it, and I think that is a pity. In relation to that working party, I would say that it was, of course, required to make proposals within the framework of the legislation in force. You have to keep that in mind. Nor is the working party's conclusion that coherence is possible within the framework correct. Well, that is not correct when we see examples time and time again. We have testimonies from families who face challenges of flexibility in terms of the help they receive in their everyday lives. At least then I think that our task is to find solutions to it. And every time we in the Danish People's Party and I, as rapporteur, make a proposal and it is voted down, I try to find other solutions in relation to the question: how can we solve it? In fact, I take back all the comments made by the rapporteurs and think about whether we can achieve this goal. Therefore, there are often and often some proposals that are somewhat similar to each other. There are small adjustments, but the intention is the same: we want to ensure better efforts in the whole area of disability, but especially for families with children who have a disability. So my hope is that we can resolve this with a joint report. It does not seem that there is a majority in favour of this, but that is why I would like to thank you for the positive things that have been said. But I often think I get shot in my shoes when I stand here on the platform fighting for improvements in the field of disability. I hope that together we can make some improvements in this area, because that is what is needed, so I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302213927	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302213946	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs as the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302214008	Thank you for that, President, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. Let me be blunt: the government does not want foreign fighters to go to Denmark. We do not want to help foreign fighters, nor do we want to let foreign fighters use their children as levers for their own journey to Denmark to the country they have betrayed. It is clear that there is a fundamental political disagreement on this matter. I can, for example. see, if I am to be honest, on social media, that Enhedslisten's rapporteur wants to bring both the adult foreign fighters and their children to Denmark. The government disagrees, vertically disagrees. The government's line is clear, consistent and well-known. It has been presented in a number of consultations, in written replies to the Folketing, at rapporteur meetings, in technical briefings and in the press, continuously since 2019. We must remember that it was the choice of foreign warriors to turn their backs on Denmark, freedom and democracy. They chose to travel 3,000 km away from Denmark with open eyes to support the inhumane regime of terror, torture and terror of the Islamic State. They joined a militant battle against everything Denmark is and stands for. We are talking about a barbaric regime of terror which cut off the heads of those whom they perceived as unbelievers. They burned people alive, they threw homosexuals off rooftops, they stoned women for alleged adultery, and they exposed prisoners to the most horrible methods of torture imaginable. With the foreign warriors' election of the Islamic State and the opt-out of Denmark, their future is not in this country. They chose that their own future and their children's lives should be in one of the worst terrorist regimes the world has ever seen. They gave their children the worst possible start to life. It hurts to think about, but it was their choice and their responsibility. We cannot forcibly remove children at 3,000 km's distance, and we will not risk helping foreign fighters to Denmark. Unfortunately, that is why we are here today. However, as I have said before, it cannot be ruled out that in some cases the health situation of the individual child could develop in a way that could exceptionally give rise to action by the Danish side. However, a child accompanied by his mother will, as a general rule, only be evacuated if it is safe and if the child is in a serious health situation which cannot be treated locally and which, if untreated, can either develop life-threatening or cause serious permanent but. However, as I have said before, evacuation of a child who is staying in one of the camps with his mother will have the character of the exception. It will also require the mother to consent to the separation from her child, for foreign fighters are undesirable in Denmark. At the same time, I would like to stress that the government attaches importance to compliance with all obligations under the Convention. It is the government's opinion that there is no general legal obligation to provide assistance to evacuate Danish citizens who have resided with the Islamic State, either in the European Convention on Human Rights or in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, nor in relation to children. I can inform you that according to PET's information, there are approx. 40 children of Danish citizens as well as about 10 children of persons who have previously had a residence permit in Denmark, in conflict zones in Syria and Iraq or in neighbouring countries. All in all, of the approx. 50 children stay approx. According to PET's information in North-East Syria, mainly in Al-Hol camp and in Al-Roj camp. Through contact with relatives in Denmark or their party representatives, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has knowledge of a total of 19 children of or associated with Danish or former Danish citizens staying in the Al-Hol camp or Al-Roj camp together with their 6 mothers who have expressed their wish to come to Denmark. 9 of the children are in Al-Hol camp while 10 are in Al-Roj camp. 3 of the 6 mothers have been deprived of their Danish citizenship administratively. The other three mothers, who are Danish nationals, have all been cut off from the External Action Service. Let me make it clear that the EEAS can continue to provide assistance to children and that the EEAS can also conduct dialogue with mothers and/or their representatives on the situation of children. If there is a need for a child to be attended by a humanitarian organisation in the camps, the EEAS could also try to help facilitate this. A total of 19 children are aged 1-14. The 9 elders were born in Denmark. The 10 youngest were born in conflict zones, and for them it is true that their Danish citizenship has not been established. In one case, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been informed that the child is not a biological child of a Danish citizen. It's an orphan child that the woman has taken in. In other words, it is an extremely complex picture. Some were born in Denmark, others were born in Syria and have never been in Denmark, and some have not established their Danish citizenship. The facts and practicalities of the cases are very different and must be dealt with in this way. There are no universal solutions. And let me make it clear: the government does not want to help foreign fighters to come to Denmark. I cannot go into the specific personal cases of the Parliament's platform or the press. That is why there are clear limits to what I can say and answer from the platform here today. If a child's health situation is considered to fall within the government's line of consideration for an exceptional medical evacuation, a number of other elements, including the child's right of birth or residence in Denmark, would thus have to be identified before it can finally be assessed whether there is a basis for such evacuation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no knowledge of orphan children with Danish ties, either in Al-Hol camp or in Al-Roj camp. Evacuation of a child staying in one of the camps with her mother will require, as I said, that the mother consent to the separation from her child. This is because foreign fighters are undesirable in Denmark. Denmark does not have a general legal obligation to evacuate parents, whether or not we have chosen to provide assistance to evacuate their children to Denmark. However, if Danish authorities decide to evacuate a child of a foreign warrior to Denmark, it cannot be denied that in very specific, specific cases a situation may arise where the decision to provide assistance to evacuate a child can create an obligation to also evacuate the child's parents. However, it will be one of the absolute exceptions, and it will require that in the particular case there is a very special relationship of dependency between the child and the parent concerned. Finally, I can say that virtually all European countries continue to have children and mothers in the camps. There are no easy solutions and we see that European countries generally make a limited number of evacuations from the camps. First of all, orphans and other particularly vulnerable children are being evacuated, and primarily on the basis of a case-to-case approach, as is the case in Denmark. The government does not agree with the proposers. Foreign fighters who have voluntarily chosen to travel to Syria to support and join the terror, violence and death caliphate of the Islamic State should not expect the help of Denmark to the country they have betrayed. In view of this, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302214856	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302214902	Thank you. In recent weeks we have been able to read in the media that a Danish girl of 4 years of age has been found by Danish experts ptsd. In recent days we have been able to read about poor food supplies in the camps and about a fire in Al-Hol, where children have died or been badly injured. In other words, these camps are no place for children at all. That is why I have included the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child in this Chamber today. It says, among other things, that every child has a natural right to life and that Denmark must ensure the child's survival and development as far as possible. For example, Article 3 states that States Parties must ensure that all appropriate measures are taken to ensure that the child is protected against all forms of discrimination or punishment on account of the child's parents. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: is the Minister willing to act in violation of the Children's Convention by allowing Danish children to grow up in deadly camps in Syria instead of making a political decision to take these children home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215010	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215012	Thank you to the questioner. Let me stress again that the government attaches importance to compliance with all the obligations under the Convention, and it is not the government's opinion that Denmark has a general legal obligation to evacuate citizens who have resided with the Islamic State, nor children. We always take representations from the UN seriously and will, of course, respond to any representations that may come, but the government's line with foreign fighters is firmly established.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215042	The questioner, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215046	When we read about children suffering from mental illness, when we read about poor food supplies, when we read about dangerous conditions such as fires, I would just like to ask whether the Minister can guarantee that the political current hesitation in helping Danish children in dangerous camps is not contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215108	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215112	I would like to stress once again that the government attaches importance to compliance with all the obligations under the Convention, and what the questioner is asking is also a much worse humanitarian situation, which is in the camps, and which supports Denmark, among other things. via our humanitarian aid to north-east Syria, with help to the camps.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215137	The next brief remark goes to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215143	Thank you and thank you for your reply. Does the Minister agree with the UN Children's Committee that Denmark has jurisdiction over these children and therefore also a responsibility for the children? And does the Minister agree with the parties behind the understanding paper that international commitments must be respected? If he is, will he explain to me how it can be compatible with the Children's Convention to let the children grow up in these camps?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215216	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215218	First of all, thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. I understand that the Committee on Children's Rights has not yet expressed its opinion on the substance of the complaints that have been made, but only on whether complaints can be dealt with in substance, so it is too early to say anything more about those things. However, let me stress again, as I have done before, that the government attaches importance to compliance with all the obligations under the Convention, and it is therefore not the government's opinion that Denmark has a general legal obligation to evacuate citizens who have resided with the Islamic State, including children. What we are doing with regard to the humanitarian situation, as Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt knows, is that, with extensive humanitarian aid, we are helping all those affected by humanitarian disasters in north-east Syria, together with other donors, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215312	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215315	Can the Minister completely deny that Denmark runs a procedural risk here in relation to human rights and to the Convention on the Rights of the Child? We can read about how terrible the conditions for the children are. There are children dying of hunger; there are children dying of cold and malnutrition. This is a terrible place to stay at all, and that is why I will try to get the Minister to answer whether the Minister can guarantee that Denmark does not run a procedural risk here in relation to human rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215350	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215352	I would like to emphasise and guarantee that the government attaches importance to compliance with all obligations under the Convention. Then perhaps I should just like to point out to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, precisely on the basis of the description that Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt actually gives here, that it is completely incomprehensible to me that parents choose to take their children to the grave of Islamic State, where they commit the atrocities that I described before, or to have children in the grave and join a terrorist organisation and turn their backs on Denmark and all that we stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215429	Thank you. The next brief remark goes to Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215431	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for allowing us to take this debate in the Parliamentary Chamber as well, and thank you also to the Minister for joining the Enhedslisten on the social media. It is absolutely true that we in the Enhedslisten want these children home, but this is not just something we want in the Enhedslisten. Well, that's what Special Branch says. PET says these children, I just think it would be nice if the Minister for Foreign Affairs would answer whether there are any other PET recommendations that the government does not think we should follow in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215510	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215514	I noted on the social media where Enhedslisten then moves that Mrs Rosa Lund has said that we should evacuate parents and children to Denmark, and there I just want to emphasise that the government disagrees vertically with that. We do not want to help foreign fighters, terrorists who have turned their backs on Denmark and who have chosen another life somewhere else and chosen to join a mortal kingdom, to Denmark with all the security risks it will entail. We do not want to do that, and that is why we have a very different line from Enhedslisten in this matter, as I have explained today. And that's our background to standing where we stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215553	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215555	Well I understand and have both read and heard the government say that you think these people have turned their backs on Denmark. The consequence of that is that you turn your back on the kids. I would like to ask the Minister again, not what he thinks about what the Enhedslisten thinks, but how the government feels about the police intelligence services in their own terrorist analysis assessing that these children are not a terrorist threat. So this is not just something we say in the Enhedslisten; it is also something that PET says. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister: are there any other assessments that PET has made that the government does not think should be followed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215633	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215635	I read with great interest all ratings from PET and our intelligence services at all, but what we are debating today is our line. Who wants the Enhedslisten to change the line so that we must evacuate foreign fighters and their children from northeastern Syria. We do not want foreign warriors to Denmark. We want the people who have turned their backs on Denmark to take responsibility for the fantastically incomprehensible choice they have made. That's our clear line here. And then I would just like to say that in the humanitarian field, we are doing what we can to help, among other things. with humanitarian aid to North-East Syria and in any other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215714	Thank you. The next person to sign up for a brief comment is Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215722	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Minister. The minister mentions the atrocities and cruel crimes committed by the IS state and these parents have potentially participated in. Will the Minister confirm that the children know that the government will not evacuate them and bring them home will be punished, not for something they have done themselves, but for something their parents have done? Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215753	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215758	No, what I can confirm is that some parents have chosen to turn their backs on Denmark and travel to Syria and join the Islamic State... maybe one of the worst terrorist regimes ever seen on this earth... commit atrocities and thereby turn their backs on everything we stand for in Denmark. We do not want those people back to Denmark. As far as the kids are concerned, it's a matter that hurts. I'll admit it. I don't understand the parents' choice either that they bring children down there or have children down there. As I said, we are helping humanitarianly in north-east Syria, and it is also the case that if a particular health situation arises, we will also look at how we can help each child on a case-to-case basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215849	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215851	Like the Minister, I also cannot understand how people can go down to the IS state and commit and share in the crimes that have taken place down there. I simply cannot understand it's deeply, deeply reprehensible. But I also cannot understand why children should be punished for something their parents have done. In our rule of law, in our enlightened society, we do not punish collectively. This is something that is being done in an IS state and states that are not an enlightened community of law. So I still don't understand. I'd like the Minister to address this. Can the Minister not confirm that we are punishing the children for their parents' actions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302215943	No, we say clearly that we do not want foreign warriors who have turned their backs on Denmark back to Denmark. They have made a choice on their own behalf, and unfortunately also their children's, a choice that hurts; I will admit that it hurts, that those children have got into that situation, and then, as I mentioned earlier, we help with humanitarian aid for north-east Syria, but we can also in individual cases with particularly vulnerable children on a case-by-case basis, and if they meet the criteria, try to evacuate each child with the consent of the parent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220019	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220023	Thank you. I am always impressed when the Foreign Minister presents this logic, that when it is people who have been taken down and involved in crimes, and then we are in the situation we are facing today, it is their victims who have to take care of them. In other words, it is entirely similar to the situation in which a family is exposed to a child in the family being attacked by a random assailant and then leaving it to the family to support the perpetrator, to pay for him, to ensure that he is held prisoner and possibly resocialised. It's a logic I don't understand at all. But I would just like to ask the Foreign Minister: can the Foreign Minister confirm that, for example, The American intelligence service has stated that every day that these children are in these camps where the IS caliphate dominates in the worst way is the risk of radicalisation, increasing and increasing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220129	I don't think I'm gonna go into mr. Søren Søndergaard's analogy, but simply say that it is clear that the security situation in the camps has deteriorated and is bad, and that the humanitarian situation in the camps has also deteriorated and is bad, there is no doubt, and that what I mentioned earlier is incomprehensible, that adult people have chosen to go down to and have joined the death kingdom of Islamic State and have fought with them, with the atrocities committed. Whether that environment is a breeding ground for radicalisation is certainly what we have seen, and we have also seen various reports about this does not change the fact that we do not want foreign fighters who can pose a threat to our own security to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220218	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220220	That means, of course, that what the Foreign Minister says in this way is that we are willing to take the risk of more and more of the children we leave down there being indoctrinated, radicalised and able to return as terrorists. In other words, we have seen Turkey carry out liberation actions in the camps, where some people from the camps have suddenly appeared in different places in Europe. And they can do that again. So some of the people we leave behind, some of the kids we leave down there, we can get back in 10 years as bestial terrorists because you haven't known your visiting time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220301	No, what we are saying quite openly is that we do not want the people who have turned their backs on Denmark and all that we stand for, who have joined terrorist movements, who commit atrocities and who in themselves can pose a huge security risk. We will not risk those people returning to Denmark and representing a danger to us here. We do not want that. Foreign warriors are undesirable in Denmark. That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220328	The next brief remark is to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220331	Thank you. There is no doubt that this is a difficult matter. Therefore, it is also important that we in Denmark do what we can to get optimal conditions in the camp, and that is both in the short run, but also in relation to finding a lasting solution. In the short term, it is not just a question of security, because it is of course very important in itself, but it is also a question of getting the humanitarian situation under control. The Minister mentioned that there are some concrete things that are being done in the north-east of Syria: what is being done specifically to ensure both that there are not even more people who can escape from this camp, because there are already some who have fled while at the same time ensuring better conditions for the children? And what is being done in the long run in relation to a lasting solution in the region in order to be able to prosecute these terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220416	Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220416-2	The first is that Denmark does not have jurisdiction over the camps. They are in northeastern Syria and are under Kurdish control. But that, among other things. It is a matter of helping humanitarian aid through humanitarian organisations, not directly, but through partners. Of course, as I mentioned earlier, we will continue to do so. It is an unfortunate humanitarian situation that we see in the wake of the ravages of the IS in the area. The second is that we, together with other countries, of course work to prosecute foreign fighters. It is not an easy task, but it is also something that we are looking for together with like-minded people, in other European countries, who have the same challenges as us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220500	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220501	I clearly recognise that it is not easy to resolve, but it is just necessary to resolve it. It is also necessary to find a solution as quickly as possible, because in relation to this prosecution you must also have witnesses, data, etc., and the more years that pass from this horrible crime to this, the harder it must be when it comes to the memory of witnesses, material and everything else. So for the Left, it is very important that, in addition to having as good conditions as possible with regard to children, we also have to prosecute their parents as effectively and as quickly as possible. I would therefore just like to appeal to the government to take this task very seriously, not least in relation to our allies, and to ensure that this happens as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220547	We certainly do. I do not believe that there is any European country that is not keenly concerned with finding solutions to the unfortunate situation in north-east Syria. It is a humanitarian complex situation; it is a security complex situation; and it is an unresolved situation because one has a country that is still in civil war, where part of Syria is controlled by Kurdish forces that have their own administration. So it is clear that there is nothing I would rather than have a solution to the whole situation in Syria, including a solution to the whole situation in north-east Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220630	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220633	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. I will follow up a few questions which were put to the Minister but which the Minister did not answer. The first was to comply with the conventions, where the Minister was asked whether the Minister could guarantee that the government would comply with the conventions. The Minister replied that the government wants to comply with the conventions. Can the Minister guarantee that the government will comply with the Children's Convention in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220700	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Of course, the government wants this and can guarantee that what we want is to comply with the conventions. Then there have been different UN approaches to us, which we are responding to in the different resorts in which they now lie, in relation to the concerns that exist. But of course we abide by the conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220721	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220722	So the Minister guarantees that for example. The children's convention is being observed. Another question is this, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard said that if it is the case that we do not want foreign fighters to go to the country, why don't we take those children home and make sure they don't get radicalized and don't return as foreign fighters? That should be logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220741	Well, there's the fact that we don't want foreign warriors to Denmark. It is the case that the children are hurting, but if we take the children to Denmark at risk of their parents joining, we risk getting foreign warriors who are unwanted in Denmark into Denmark. We do not want to contribute to that. And then I would like to stress that it is the government's clear assessment that we are, of course, complying with all the conventions and obligations that exist. And there is no general legal obligation to help neither foreign fighters nor children. Humanitarian and security considerations can be considered, but there is no general legal obligation to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220826	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. That is how the rapporteur begins, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302220852	Thank you, President. One could recently read in the leadership in Kristeligt Dagblad the following: "The Government's reluctance to take the IS warriors home will be explained with a reasoned concern that the extremists will continue their terrorist activity on Danish soil..." Yes, so clearly it can be said. Unfortunately, the editorial writer then embarks on a rather inconvenient research on the subject, which I do not think is reasonable. The newspaper believes that the decision taken by the government can be linked, and I quote: "... that in the political struggle for a strict foreign policy there is a risk of being portrayed as soft-sweet. ▪ Of course, the fate of children should not be determined by some votes from one vote to the next. There are no parties in the Folketing that deserve to be considered so cynical. It is tragic that there are children living in the IS camps in Northern Syria, but it is now the case that the Danish Government cannot forcibly remove children from a distance, and we do not bring potential terrorists to Denmark. I would like to stress that these are the parents I refer to as potential terrorists, and I say this in this way because I have experienced a deliberate misrepresentation by Mr. Kristian Hegaard on another occasion, where it appeared that I should think that a 4-year-old child should be a terrorist. It's absurd. I always stress that small children do not pose a threat, but their parents do. The children pay a high price for their parents choosing the future of their family in the Middle East. In the case of evacuation, a few exceptions have been made. They have been mentioned in the daily press: a baby who was orphaned was evacuated; a boy who was life-threatening injured was evacuated, well to feel after agreement with the mother who agreed to stay in Syria. The starting point is that we're not picking anybody up. Parents have joined one of the most hostile movements the world has ever known. These are the many innocent people who have had their throats cut by IS warriors, horrific testimony. We should not let this violence get away in Denmark, and that is the risk of bringing the parents home. Their crimes have been committed thousands of miles away. It may prove difficult to have them convicted in Denmark. However, the Syrians and Iraqis, Kurds and yazis and others who have lost family members, have been sex slaves, have been whipped and tortured, have a legitimate expectation that their executioners will be brought to justice rather than just being evacuated to Denmark because they have a red beet passport. Social democracy cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221117	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221122	Thank you for your speech to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund, whom I think is a good and friendly colleague. But I still wondered when I saw it was sir. Rasmus Stoklund, who came here today, because the resolution we are debating today is about bringing Danish children home • Danish children • and I know that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is a good colleague, but I also know that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is a foreign minister. And I just want to emphasise that this is not about foreign policy, it is about something quite different, namely Danish children. And I recently read in Berlingske that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund said that under no circumstances could parents be included; it could only hypothetically be said that parents could go to Denmark, for example if there was an infant and there was a need to breast-feed. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, when he thinks there is the most need for a parent, is it when it is a treatment-intensive child who has ptsd, or is it when it is a child who needs to be breast-fed by his mother?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221228	First of all, it is in the Social Democratic Party that we find out who is working on what matters, and not in all sorts of other parties. These cases go across a number of ministries, and that's why I'm the one who got this assignment. I would like to stress again, as I also said in an interview, that it was very hypothetical. So the starting point is that we don't get anybody at all. I just mentioned this hypothetical example because we cannot rule out the possibility that some kind of situation might arise sometime in the future, where there may be some very special circumstances that would make it unconstitutional not to evacuate them together a hypothetical example. But there's nothing topical where it goes in this direction. The clear starting point is that we are not picking anyone up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221314	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221316	I don't think the good man, anyway. Rasmus Stoklund gets the answer to what I am asking, namely: if you have an infant who is breast-fed by your mother and if you have a child who has ptsd and where doctors say that the child is requiring treatment and that, as part of that treatment, the child needs its mother, when is the most need for help from his parent?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221343	I have no basis for being able to go into these individual cases. But I would say that, in general terms, I think it would be difficult to find any situations with a child who has a primary caregiver, where someone would then have to say: It is quite obvious to separate them. I am not aware of anyone who has recommended this so far. That's what's at the heart of this, because it's not an option that you just go down and pick up the kids and leave the parents behind. That possibility does not exist. Parents come with us if you start evacuating, and we're not interested in that. We should not have terrorists walking around at large in Denmark, which is the risk if they cannot be judged for their actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221421	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221425	Thank you. And thank you for your speech, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. For once, the rapporteur said something that I agreed with: the executioners must be punished. Is there the greatest chance that these people will be punished where they are now in some prison camps in Syria, which are run by the Kurds, who are on their knees, or is there the greatest chance that they will be punished if they come to Denmark, where we have a strong, well-functioning legal system?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221455-2	In my opinion, there is the greatest chance that they can be punished if they stay in the area where, hopefully at some point, we will succeed with our allies in creating a tribunal so that we will have access to witnesses, crime scenes, fellow criminals, victims and all other relevant matters. Then I think that the chance to have them punished and not least to have them sentenced to a very long sentence is significantly better than if we move them here to Denmark and it ends up with some of them may only be convicted of having entered an area illegally, and then in a relatively short time they can walk around at large, steal a bus, drive it down a pedestrian street and kill a lot of innocent people. We shouldn't take that risk. We should not have terrorists walking around at large in Denmark within a few years, because we do not have the opportunity to carry out a proper trial in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221545	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221546	So the executioners we're talking about now have to walk around at large until this tribunal gets established, and there's at least enough 10 more years to do that, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. If we look to Norway, we have actually managed to start a trial against an IS woman who has come home. My second question concerns the fact that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund says that there may be situations where you have to bring sick children home. So I just want to ask, how sick should you be? I mean, is a four-year-old child who has ptsd sick enough for the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221620	This whole thing about the executioners walking around loose, until a tribunal succeeds, I don't think it's right. In other words, they have just been controlled by the Kurds... the Kurds have just taken them prisoner. That's one part. The point is that, as Mrs Rosa Lund mentions this Norwegian woman, I think Mrs Rosa Lund forgets to mention that this is actually a very good example of what I mentioned just now. I know this person has been in custody, and now the trial has to start and things like that, but there she is going to be walking around on the loose in Norway. That is the situation we should not have in Denmark. We should not have these people in Denmark and then have them in custody for a short period of time and then have them on the streets and straits and pose a security risk to the population. That is the situation we must avoid.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221707	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221711	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, if he thinks these camps are going to exist forever, because if he doesn't think so, there's a risk that these people will be released at some point, and then there's a probability that they'll be looking for Denmark. So is it best to take the children home before they are radicalized, or is it better to wait until they may be released, what is the probability? After all, some citizens from some countries have begun to be released from these camps, and there are also people who are fleeing. Is it best to wait, or is it best to take the children home at this time when they are not a danger?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221755	I would like to say that, in a way, I agree that there are no good solutions here. It is not the case that I believe that this is an optimal situation, no matter what you do. It is not the case that I believe we have found the stone shown that solves it all. There is nothing here that is optimal, because it is a terrible situation that these people have brought in their families and small children, so there is nothing that is optimal. But the difference is that if you go down the path that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt wants to go down, you are getting a current and urgent security threat to Denmark right now. After all, if you follow the trail we see, you keep the security threat out in a stretched arm. Then it is true that it poses a risk in the long term that some of these children are Danish citizens and in the long term will have the opportunity to come to Denmark, but the difference is that now their parents are adults Danish citizens and they constitute an acute terrorist threat to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221851	Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221853	Then I'd like to ask you where, sir. Rasmus Stoklund knows from the fact that these children constitute an acute security threat at this time, because it is in fact contrary to what PET says. PET actually says that this risk will increase while these children are in the camps. So I would also like to ask the medical assessment: is it possible to ignore the fact that there is a medical assessment which says that you should take a child home with its mother, without violating any conventions? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302221935	The first part of the question surprises me a little, because I have not talked about the fact that children constitute a security threat. I say precisely that parents pose a security threat, but it does not work so that you can take the children and then not bring the parents with you, and if you bring the parents to Denmark now, they constitute an acute security threat. On the other hand, on the subject of medical assessments, I have no basis for assessing individual cases here, but overall it is the case that on the one hand there is a weight bowl where there are some humanitarian concerns, and on the other hand there is a weight bowl with some security policy considerations concerning Denmark's security, the security of the realm, the security of the population. The two scales must be weighed against each other. There may be some very extraordinary situations in which a parent can then agree to stay because a child needs to be evacuated, as it does, for example. In the past, there has been a 13-year-old boy, but that is the exception.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222024	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222027	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur said to Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, that the rapporteur does not want to go down in individual cases, so I will try to ask a slightly more fundamental question. If an immigrant commits crime in Denmark, for example. a murder, we arrest the person, punish the person, and the person will most likely have an expulsion. So we expect the country where the immigrant belongs to have citizenship, to take care of the citizen. Will the rapporteur confirm that there is a difference in standard? That is to say, when we expect the other countries to take care of their citizens, but when Danish citizens go to Syria and commit atrocities, crimes, will not accept them, take care of our citizens, citizens, then is a difference that there are two standards? Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222131	No, I do not think that the examples are linked; the parallels are not linked. On the one hand, we have a foreigner in Denmark who commits crime and is convicted under criminal law, gets a sentence and goes to prison, has been sentenced to expulsion and then has to be sent out of Denmark after serving his sentence. On the other hand, a Dane has gone to Syria and has fought for the Islamic State and has been captured now, but has just not been prosecuted and has not received his sentence, has not been imprisoned, has not paid for it, the victims have not seen justice done. Should we then, because he has a red-bellied passport, go down and evacuate him or her to Denmark, where he or she might not really be judged for so much and could so very quickly run around at large and commit new acts of terrorism in northern Europe? I don't even see how these parallels are supposed to be connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222221	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222224	It is, of course, linked to the fact that we are internationally obliged to take care of our citizens. Otherwise, we will have precisely the security risk that will make it possible for us to have a lot of people at large who, in turn, can pose a security risk to Denmark and other countries in Europe. But I would just like to ask the same question I asked the Minister. Can the rapporteur confirm that because you do not want potential terrorists to go to Denmark, the consequence of punishing children, in other words small individuals, for something that others have committed is for crimes committed by others? Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222313	If it was the Danish state that had put these little children on a plane and sent them to the kingdom of the Islamic State and said that your future lies here, I would say that Mr. Sikandar Siddique made a point. But that is not the case. It is a question of some Danes, fundamentalists, terrorist-loving Islamists who have decided that they will form a family in an Islamic caliphate, where murder and violence and mutilation are the order of the day. How to blame the Danish state, I cannot really get to hang together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222352	The next brief remark is to Mr Beazley. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222356	Thank you. I got it, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, that it was almost for the sake of the victims that we should not take any of the children and their possible parents or mothers to Denmark, that it was for the victims to be allowed to punish them. Could Mr. Rasmus Stoklund did not go a little further on how we actually help the victims to punish them? - Sir... Rasmus Stoklund mention anything concrete we do? Is it the case that we, the Danish police, go down to the authorities and hand over the information we have about those concerned so that the authorities there will have a better basis for punishing them? Is there such contact between the Danish authorities and the authorities in the area of self-government where we are thus helping to punish them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222455	Sir. Søren Søndergaard has not listened well enough if he believes that this is primarily for the sake of the victims we are doing this. I put quite a lot of emphasis on the security policy aspects of this, to avoid terrorism in Denmark. But I also believe that there is a concern for the victims, who are not to see that Danish executioners are simply evacuated because they have a red-bellied passport and so largely avoid punishment. There is a trail pursued by the government jointly with Allied countries in the West, among others. about setting up this tribuneal. How this work is progressing and how it is done in practice is above my payroll, and that is what Mr. Søren Espersen asks relevant ministers. I think it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222537	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222538	Sir, I'm afraid so. Søren Espersen, I'm sure. I'd like to ask you another question, because Mr. Rasmus Stoklund talks about it. Tribunal: There are some victims who would like to have convicted some of the perpetrators or women for that matter. They want that, and my simple question is this: do they have the help of the Danish authorities today? Do the Danish authorities help the self-government authorities with information to better punish those who have committed crimes in the area? Do the Danish authorities provide information to the self-government authorities? That's just what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222624	First of all, I regret that I got mixed up with the two name brothers who are here in the Chamber today. But Mr. Søren Søndergaard thinks I'm not talking about it. I do not think so, because that is the way we can help them, i.e. by trying to establish a tribunal. It is a work that is carried out in cooperation with other governments. As mentioned before, it's above my payroll, it's not something I work with every day. But that is the solution, that is the way to ensure that justice is done for these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222655	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222658	Thank you very much. I fear that in this way the government is putting Denmark at a safety risk that is actually greater than necessary. After all, we are talking about children, but the rapporteur keeps talking about foreign fighters, and since most of these children's fathers are dead, it must be about a small handful of mothers, and if some of them came up here and were actually terrorists, we would have a chance to have them prosecuted and convicted. It is very, very few people here who might pose a safety risk. On the other hand, many children are left behind, which of course is unacceptable for humanitarian and other reasons, but they are also left for radicalisation, and there is a risk that many more people will come up here and carry out the acts of terror that the rapporteur so picturesquely describes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222804	I hardly know where to start. The children are in a really terrible situation, and we are not hiding that, and they do not constitute an acute terrorist risk, but their parents do. And if it is believed that women in the Islamic State do not pose a security risk, I believe that there is a basis for a slightly better orientation in the international daily press. I think it has been well described, even how in these camps things are still going on quite brutally, and how brutality is certainly also being exercised by women. It is not the case that only the men were responsible for the brutality of the Islamic State. So I don't quite recognize this picture that women shouldn't pose a risk, if that's what it is, sir. Torsten Gejl means.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222902	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222904	I am not saying that women cannot pose a safety risk. I say that most of the children's fathers have died, so the foreign fighters that the rapporteur is talking about must be a small handful of women, in other words the very few women who are the mothers of these children. There are more children and there could be a risk that they will be radicalised if we do nothing. We might even have prosecuted those of their mothers who may be terrorists, but instead we are now choosing to sit on our hands while some children are being radicalised. And we risk them coming up here in even greater numbers and creating much more terror. That is just what I would like the rapporteur to think about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302222947	I'm thinking a lot about many aspects of this. I think there are big dilemmas and big questions about how to deal with this issue. But even if that's the right number, sir. Torsten Gejl mentions, when he says that it concerns six women, perhaps I think that neglecting six potential terrorists in Denmark is a little irresponsible. Six people who have the readiness for violence shown by the supporters of the Islamic State in recent years pose a particularly serious threat to security in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223027	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223052	Thank you for that, President. There should be no doubt that for the Left this is a difficult matter, and I think it is for everyone who has a heart. On the one hand, it is of course about terrorists, who are probably some of the worst terrorists we have seen in recent times, and where it is also very, very important for us that they are, of course, prosecuted and that they are prosecuted quickly. That is why it is also worth noting that we in the Left have repeatedly taken the matter up in the Political Affairs Committee over the last year and a half to press for the international establishment of this court so that we can prosecute these people locally in the area and have them imprisoned locally in the area. And that is why I very much hope that the government will soon be able to have cooperation with like-minded countries around these things, because it is of course extremely important that you do not go free from being convicted. On the other hand, we have the children. I am the father of two young children myself, and I understand perfectly well that we are talking about completely innocent children. That is why it is also important and I also tried to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how and how we ensure the best possible conditions for these children. And that is why, even when we were in government, we were behind the setting up of this inter-ministerial working group, which was to be tasked with constantly taking matters on a case-by-case basis and going in and assessing it. It's also what did that during the last parliamentary election campaign, this 13-year-old boy was evacuated so he could come home to Denmark and get treatment. Then there is still this larger group of children present, where on the one hand we absolutely cannot see that the mothers or the fathers for that matter must come back to Denmark in any form. After all, it is important to maintain that PET has carried out a clear risk analysis of the foreign warriors, men as women, and mentions things like that they have demonstrated a strong will to act, they have increased brutalisation and readiness for violence, they have increased the capacity to carry out attacks, and, unfortunately, they have also created connections and networks so that they have the intention and capacity to commit terror in the West. These are men like women we're talking about. So we don't want them back. But on the other hand, we want to ask questions about this in committee that we should have looked at all possible ways to do so with regard to children. Could it, for example? be obsessive adoption, could it be forced removal? We want to see what these various possibilities are, because, of course, it is still important that we do everything we can in relation to the security of the Kingdom, both in the short term and in the long term. And that is what we want to address in committee. However, as the situation is now and as the proposal stands, we cannot support the proposal that has been presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223433	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223437	Thank you. That is absolutely correct, and we have taken note of it in the Enhedslisten, that since Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister, the government actually made a pretty big effort to get these people home. We have been able to read both in the Ekstra Bladet and in Berlingske that there is therefore a grandmother who has had a presumption and expectation that both her daughter and her grandchildren were going to Denmark. It is, of course, a paradoxical situation to stand in here for the Enhedslisten... so somehow think back to the time when Mr. Anders Samuelsen was Secretary of State. So I should just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: is it not rather strange that, in the middle of a parliamentary election campaign, this practice is being changed without informing anyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223524	As I think I have also said to certain media, it certainly came as a surprise to you. I do not believe that I have been informed at any time, either in the Foreign Policy Name or elsewhere. I realize that my memory can sometimes be bad, but that's the memory I have. So yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223541	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223544	I feel the same way. I also find it strange that we have not been informed and that we will only be informed long after the change of practice has taken place, namely in consultation. What will the Left do to bring us back to the practice led by the Government of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223604-2	We will be asking a large number of questions during the committee reading and also expecting this to be a discussion that we will be discussing in the Foreign Policy Name again, and then we will have to pursue it as much as we possibly can and hope that we can find a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223619	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223623	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There should be no doubt that my favourite youth party is, of course, Radical Youth. But another youth party I have become a big fan of late is the Left Youth, which has said very clearly that they think you should take the Danish children home from the deadly camps. What I have seen the President of the Left Youth being quoted for is that, among other things, it is. in writing. - (FR) The Left Youth does not believe that children should be punished for the actions of their parents. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur on the platform, the rapporteur on the Left, the Danish Liberal Party: is it liberal to punish children for their parents' actions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223710	Now, sir. Kristian Lausten Madsen, in addition to being the country president of the Left Youth, also from Assentoft at Randers, and already there he has won points in my book on a large scale. I myself am still a member of the Left Youth, because you can be, even if you are 44 years old. So I agree with the President-in-Office of the Council that, of course, innocent children should not be punished, and that is why I said what I said in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223738	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223740	But the Danish children cannot, according to what the rapporteur said, have the opportunity to come home because of the fact that they have such a line that they are not going home under any circumstances. This means that children who could otherwise come to Denmark and be radicalised and thus be in favour of Denmark's safety will be punished because their parents have committed something that we all distance ourselves from. So does the rapporteur think that it is liberal when we punish children, do not take children home, because of the actions of their parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223817	However, I also expressly said that we would be asking a large number of questions in relation to forced adoption, forced removal and so on. And see if it could be an option in this case, and then we'll have to go in to look at that. But for us it is important that the terrorists, that is. Fathers and mothers don't come back to the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223841	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223845	It was nice to hear a more nuanced speech that takes into account all the nuances and dilemmas of this case. In an old section of Horizon from DR you can see a Danish woman who sits in prison with her five children, and the Kurdish administration in the area warns Denmark strongly that children risk radicalisation and that in the long term they pose a threat to Denmark if we do not bring them home. It may well be that this woman herself is radicalized, but there are also five radicalised children, and there you might think it might be smartest to bring them home, prosecute the woman and then create a safe childhood for these children so that they do not become radicalised.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302223937	For us, it is actually essential that we do everything we can to ensure that these children are not radicalised and that they have every opportunity to grow up and become good people with the best possible conditions, and that is also why this is something we must pursue closely. There are a large number of legal options and some that are not opportunities for action in relation to conventions and what can be done and cannot be done, and we believe that we should be able to go all the way to what we might be able to do to safeguard these children, for example. automatically means that parents should be included in such a decision. These are all the different tools we want to get in and have looked at and asked about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224017	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224022	Now it is what we heard earlier, for example. In Norway, a potential terrorist was successfully prosecuted. Isn't there something to advocate perhaps getting those who are terrorists women as men to Denmark and have them prosecuted?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224038	No, we do not in any way share the desire for parents to return to the country. We believe that they should be prosecuted locally. It is actually quite difficult to prosecute them in Denmark, because it will be really complicated to have access to witnesses, case files and all sorts of other things, and therefore the experience of similar trials that have been carried out in connection with previous conflicts says that it is best to do so in the area where the crimes have been committed. Of course, it will be very difficult to carry out such a trial in north-east Syria, but it can be done in one of the neighbouring countries, and we have also repeatedly proposed this in the name of the name.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224118	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224121	Thank you. Now, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen and I agree entirely that those who have committed something that is unacceptable, criminal and terrible must be judged, and preferably judged harshly. That is why I was very pleased with the question which Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen previously addressed the Foreign Minister. Since, in the view of the Left, this criminal procedure cannot take place in Denmark, Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen did not see that Denmark as a country contributes to the fact that the self-government authorities in the place where they are, i.e. in northern Syria, have the best opportunities to find out who are seriously criminals, and who just expects Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is not that the Danish authorities are actively in contact with the autonomous authorities in the area in order to ensure a prosecution or at least retain evidence for the sake of a later prosecution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224237	Now I hope that Mr. Søren Søndergaard knows that it is also very important for the Left that the local Kurdish authorities in the north-east of Syria have the best possible conditions, and it is both about being able to prosecute locally, but it is also about operating the camp, about security and everything else. That is why we also have what I also recognise that Enhedslisten has, on several occasions, pressed the government to give the best possible conditions to the Kurdish authorities. On the question of how this should be done in practical terms, I would prefer that we should have a real international court in a neighbouring country where it can be dealt with more effectively and where we can also have a prison. But otherwise, I think I agree with you quite a bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224317	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224319	The problem is, of course, that we can sit and wait, but the self-government authorities cannot do so because they have them and they see the radicalisation of children. That is why they have also tried to set up de-radicalisation camps or schools for some of these children. Their problem is that they have not trained psychologists and psychiatrists, they have no experience of it, they do not know what to do and, above all, they have no money. That is why the work has been wasted after quite a short period of time when they have had someone out for radicalisation and they have returned to the camps. Is it also an area such as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen would expect Denmark of course to go in and contribute directly to the fact that these people with a Danish background will not be radicalized, so we can risk having them in our heads in 10 years' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224405	The answer is a clear yes, and I expect the government to be able to answer yes to that, or at least I would hope the government could answer yes to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224410	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224413	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would say that I also felt compelled to look down on the screen once more to see whether it is the rapporteur of the Left who is on the platform. Thank you for a nuanced post. However, I had hoped that you would have gone further and said: we would actually like to support the proposal. I would like to ask the same question that I asked both the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur, and I really would like to use a different choice of words now. So instead of saying whether the rapporteur can confirm that we are punishing the children for something they have not done, I would now like to use the words: would the rapporteur not admit that we are actually out on the wrong track here in relation to us being a rule of law? Will the rapporteur admit, confirm, acknowledge that we are punishing children for something they have not chosen by not taking them home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224504	In any case, I would like to say that it is a totally untenable situation for children to be brought into completely innocent situations. Well, everyone can tell themselves that four-year-olds obviously have no responsibility for what their parents have done; I have a 3-year-old and a 6-year-old child myself and have a hundred percent clear idea of it. Having said that, I have also said that for the Left it is important that we clarify all aspects of this, not least in relation to what we can do. What I am trying to say is that we will also go as far as possible in relation to possible conventions and the like in order to ensure as much freedom of choice as possible in order to ensure the best possible conditions for children. I cannot come closer to that until I get the answers from the government, in relation to the committee's examination of what can be done and what cannot be done. Of course, it also requires a willingness on the part of the government to say what we can do in relation to these children. I hope there is, I think there is and there we will have to look at how and how.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224601	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224603	Okay. I would like to admit that, as long as there is no goodwill on the part of the government, it is, of course, harder to move forward on this matter. But that is why I would like to ask a more fundamental question, because the matter here is also a matter of principle. This is also going to set a precedent in some way, in relation to what we do if something like this should arise in the future, and that is not normal in a rule of law, it is not normal in our society. This is the kind of thing you do in such an IS state: you punish a lot, an entire village, a family because someone or a family member has committed something. Can the rapporteur not say what the Left is thinking in relation to this precedent that we are setting, that we are punishing someone for something that their family members or others have done? What does the Left think about this matter in general, as a matter of principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224706	Well, the Left believes it is deeply unhappy for the children it is about, and that is what it is about. It is a question of how and how we can ensure this in relation to children, but it is also a question of what I have heard from a long rapporteur, namely how we ensure that these children do not grow up and become radicalised and can leave camp, possibly when they are 18 years old, and come up here and then become potential terrorists. Well, that's an argument we buy a hundred percent, and that's also why we say what we say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224726	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224731	I think it is sympathetic that the Left would like to protect the children. Everyone agrees that the children are innocent victims of the actions of their parents, but I doubt that the Left will succeed in finding the good solution that will protect the children. We have, of course, received answers from the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior in the past as to whether, for example, we are going to have an answer from the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. could forcibly remove the children. You can't do that. It'll be illegal. It would also be unconstitutional. That possibility does not exist. I do not know what it is then that you can imagine whether to kidnap the children or how it would happen, but there is also a security risk of sending in some Danish soldiers, or what I know, to try to kidnap these children. But the forced removal of them is certainly not possible in relation to the legislation. That is why I believe that we must take that responsibility and say: we have a security risk that we are taking into account here, and we cannot create the perfect life for these children, however much we would like them all, because it is not their choice that they have landed in this situation; it is their parents who have made an unforgivable choice for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224842	I think that we in the Left have always been quite good at slogans. One of the slogans that I think is absolutely perfect here, is human before the system. And to me it is essential that we put the children at the centre and will simply do everything we can to ensure that the children also have a future. It is both for the sake of our safety, but not least for the sake of the children. I understand that the Socialist rapporteur can already say: there is nothing that can be done. We're just not there. That is why we are still going to continue this work because we think it is important that we find a solution, while maintaining that parents must be prosecuted and they must be prosecuted quickly, effectively and locally in the area. And then we'll have to find a solution for the kids too. So we are still going to reserve the right to ask for it and hope and actually expect that we can find a good solution with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224935	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302224938	This is very bad for slogans. But I think it is worth reminding you that about a year ago we decided to remove consular assistance to the foreign warriors, and that is where we avoided the children. It was precisely to try to shield them as well as possible. This is also why there is cooperation between Danish authorities and relatives here at home and relief organisations in the area. But I would also like to say, because I sincerely believe that it is sympathetic to want to do something for the children if one can get to it at all, that I only think it is good if the Left has some good ideas. We must then bring this into the committee's work and talk further about it. Then we must see if there is anything that can be done without compromising Denmark's security.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225015	It is not a great surprise to me that the Social Democrat rapporteur is opposed to a slogan about people before the system. Actually, I'm not surprised at all. But it doesn't make it any worse. However, I would just like to point out that, although we in the Left would very much like to take over the responsibility of government tomorrow, if the government does not feel that they are an adult, it is probably not relevant, and that is why it is the government that has the government's responsibility, and it is therefore also the government that must ensure that the best possible solution is found, on the basis of what a majority of the people are now asking them to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225043	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to prepare the platform for the next rapporteur. Thank you very much. And the next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225112	A number of parties are putting forward a proposal here to bring the Syrian terrorists' children to Denmark. Let me take the conclusion of the Danish People's Party first: the people who have joined the Islamic State have turned their backs on Denmark forever, and they have nothing to do in Denmark, and whether or not they and their children happen to have a Danish passport, we no longer regard them as Danes. For it is our view that the women and men who left to join the caliphate, to fight against Denmark and Denmark's allies, voluntarily and deliberately made themselves not only traitors, but also war criminals. The incomprehensible evil, which was and is identical to the Islamic State, can in recent times only be surpassed by the Waffen-SS and the atrocities that that corps did. Should we now open our eyes to invite such people to Denmark and allow them and their children to be part of the Danish daily life, we would make a serious mistake. That is not to say that the people who are in the refugee camps should not have decent and orderly conditions. In this context, we would suggest that Denmark join forces with other countries by helping the authorities down there so that they can see that clean water, healthy and nutritious food and medical care are used in the camps. I know that conditions down there are not in order, but also that Danish aid organisations are already operating in the area and the work they are doing should be appreciated. It is assumed that there are some 40 children in the camps who somehow have a Danish connection or passport. It is not clear how old these children are, but more of them are probably more than 10 years old. They have grown up in the miserable reality that their parents deliberately created for them. Like their parents, the older children are obviously brainwashed into the evil cult and will thus pose a danger to Denmark. As the Foreign Minister has mentioned, there may of course be extreme, exceptional situations in which a minor child will have to be taken to Denmark for reasons of illness, but in that case the child will have to be removed from his parents. In this connection, I would like to see the child subsequently given up for adoption. Because it is child abuse that happens when you do this kind of brainwashing; that must be taken into account. That is, in fact, a good and correct explanation of why they should be given up for adoption, that is, because they are abused by their parents. In the middle of it all we have to tighten up tremendously in relation to the rise of Islam in Denmark, which means that, from seemingly peaceful circles, a surreal terrorist suddenly pops up with an automatic rifle in one hand and the Koran in the other. We are talking about women and men who have come out of their respective Western European countries to commit war crimes for the caliphate. Now their evil intentions did not succeed, for they lost at least for the time being. But what if it had actually succeeded? Well, we would have gotten rid of their jam, but in return, we'd gotten their terror. Now they are begging for help with legal expenses, doctor, education, housing; now suddenly they want their children to grow up in the country that they mocked when they left. But when the Islamic State calls it again because it can well happen; does the latest developments show that the woman is on her way again with a number of new women of the same opinion? The thing is, we can't trust these scoundrels, men and women. They're full of phony, and they live on the lie. So from here, and on behalf of the Danish People's Party, it may not be surprising, it will be a no to the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225551	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225559	Thank you. In fact, I think that the speech gave rise to a great many questions, and by its very nature I cannot ask them all. In many other respects, the Danish People's Party is very concerned that other countries are taking their criminal citizens home. Why should Denmark not do the same? Why should we not take our criminal citizens home and bring them to justice so that they can be punished for their atrocities, and in this way also help these children, as Mr. Søren Espersen himself says that they are being abused by their parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225637	So here we are talking about traitors and war criminals. These aren't ordinary criminals. I certainly believe that, if they were ordinary criminals, they should do so and also arrange for a trial to be carried out. But could one here, for example? Imagine a trial in Denmark, where we will then fly witnesses up, and where are they etc.? It is simply not possible to get proper legal treatment, and we should not strive for that either, for these people have made war criminals in my view by their journey to Syria alone. How did this happen? Much of what is going on has been in closed circles, but we have no idea who did what. But they were all in the same evil cult, and that is what matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225726	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225728	There is no doubt that we all think that what these people have done is absolutely reprehensible. It's just interesting that it's possible in Norway to take legal action against these people. Why, then, should this not be possible in Denmark? Norway is also far away from where these crimes have taken place. Whatever you do and how you turn and turn Mr. Søren Espersen's argument, you end up punishing the kids in this. I am interested that we help the children and that we punish those who have committed the crimes. Now we do the opposite; now we let those who have committed the crimes go free and then we punish the children. That's not wishing for anyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225807	So it is the children's parents who have punished them. It is not our society that has done so in any way whatsoever, but the parents have punished the children. They themselves have joined that cult and, as I said in my speech, if they had won, I am not sure that they had been so quick to come home. Should it be true that, for example, their parents, their mothers or their fathers, have come to their minds better; could one imagine that they would now suddenly tell their children that this is now a completely different situation and that they are now on their side with them as they once taunted? That doesn't make any sense. Those people are never going to Denmark, and be it the children, and be it the women and the men.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225848	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225852	I would like to ask the Danish People's Party whether one is not at all concerned that one will create the opposite of security with one's policy. For PET and Center for Terror Analysis says that the longer these kids are in these camps, the more likely they are to be radicalized. And at some point it may be that they come out of these camps and turn their noses back to Denmark or they get put on a plane because you get tired of their presence in these countries, and then they return home and are radicalised. So isn't the Danish People's Party afraid that you're going to create the opposite of security by letting these kids rot in these camps?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302225935	No, because the safest thing is they're gonna stay down there. That is what is crucial. We should not have them just near Denmark in any way whatsoever. The fact that they are there is a security for us, because as soon as they are there, they cannot create terror. I do not know or can see from such a future perspective how it will have an effect on one child or on another child or on a woman or on a man. I can't really know anything about that, and PET doesn't really know about that either. You have no idea how much the children who are over 10 years old, maybe 12 years old, have already been brainwashed into this cult. But they are considered children, and it is absolutely crucial that the young children should be with their mother or father, and that the older children should not under any circumstances have to go to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230025	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230028	Yes, they are children, and I would at least venture to claim that if you take the children home, we are more likely to avoid radicalisation than if we allow them to stay. Because then it will really be really, really difficult to do anything about the radicalisation that they are in danger of being subjected to. But does the Danish People's Party believe that these camps will exist forever and that there is thus a guarantee that these children will never return to Denmark? Because if it is not something that the Danish People's Party believes in, then I think the best thing is to take the children home now that we have a chance to give them a safe life, and to influence them in a direction that is sensible and for the benefit of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230112	But I also understand that the proposers here want the mothers to go home. That is also crucial in the campaign being conducted at the moment, and that is what is absolutely crucial for us. As I say, there may be very young children who need some form of treatment, and we must help them in some way. But we should never ever open the door to women dating children anywhere from that camp. I don't know what's gonna happen in that camp. I can just say that it is absolutely crucial for us that the safest thing is that they never come out of the camps.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230148	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230151	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that it is the policy of the Danish People's Party that if a person comes to Denmark, does not have a Danish citizenship and commits violent crime here in Denmark, then the person must be returned to his country of origin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230213	I also said that on an earlier question. This is extraordinary. It is extraordinary that we have a whole group of Danes in goose eyes who volunteer as a terrorist, as a traitor, as a war criminal. These are quite different discussions that we have than when it comes to just plain ordinary • in goose-eyes • criminals. This is something completely different.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230238	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230239	First of all, it is quite interesting that one can conclude whether one is a terrorist or a traitor or something else before it has even been proved. In Denmark and elsewhere, it has to be the case that you are innocent until proven guilty. Fortunately, there are also those who end up regretting and doing something else and behaving properly, but it is clear that those who do the opposite are doing something completely wrong. But it just underlines the absurdity of the logic of the Danish People's Party in this area. So does the rapporteur not see that it would be good to put these people in a cage, in prison, in Denmark, so that we can get them under control so that they do not commit the kind of atrocities expressed by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230324	But it is as if questions are now being asked about the people who left, that is, the Danish woman or man who left for Syria. Were they war criminals? Were they terrorists? Were they in a death cult? They were, and that's what they signed up for, and that's what we knew, and so did the others, and they left with their eyes open. That is why they themselves have created the situation as they stand at the moment, where it is coming together. I'm just saying that the Islamic State is on the move again and that it's nice to have examples of it: don't go, because you'll never come home again! That is the essential point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230407	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230410	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur has explained the position on the proposal, so I will not ask any further questions on that. I fully agree with the rapporteur when he says that these people have turned their backs on Danish values. They have turned their backs on the Danish values. But can the rapporteur see a dilemma in the fact that, indirectly, in the heat of the struggle, as it were, we are going to turn our backs on the Danish values of the rule of law and the best interests of the child; the values that we in the enlightened Western world stand for by not taking our responsibility upon us in relation to the best interests of the child, that is. Keep it in the center and help these kids home? So, does the rapporteur see a dilemma there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230506	Then I would like to ask the other way round: does Mr. Sikandar Siddique states that it will be possible to carry out a trial in Denmark by possibly flying in witnesses from different camps in Syria or wherever they are now? That's not gonna happen. So, according to the general principles of law, it would be wonderful if it were possible for us to do witness interviews, get to know and then give life imprisonment, or whatever it may be. That would be a good thing, but it is not possible in these situations, and that is absolutely crucial. We know that in my party we do at least that they are war criminals, and we know that they are terrorists. We do not need to ask questions about this; we have had plenty of examples of this, including from what has been shown in the press and on television in horrific reports etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230556	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230600	I didn't get the full answer to my question, maybe I should try to rephrase it. These people have turned their backs on the Danish values. We in Denmark have signed the Children's Convention. The child's best interests always come first. Can the rapporteur not see that there is a dilemma here: that, indirectly, in some way, we are going to turn our backs on our principles and values when we say that these people are so horrible that we do not want to have anything to do with them? We ourselves are turning our backs on our own values because they do not see that dilemma in the rapporteur's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230636	First of all, but it has nothing to do with this, we want the conventions to where the pepper grows. We are not interested in the conventions that destroy our ability to do what we really want to do. With regard to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other conventions which might have been violated, we have the Minister for Foreign Affairs' word that the government is sure that the conventions will not be violated and that the questions that will be asked when they are asked will be answered. I think that is actually satisfactory enough; it is for me, and it should also be for Mr Beazley. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230709	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you very much for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302230746	Thank you for the floor. I'll always be on the kids' side. That's what our Prime Minister said a year ago. But right now the reality is that there are a lot of Danish children sitting in two prison camps in Syria, and they are very lacking in someone on their side. They are in what can be described as hell on earth, Europe's Guantánamo, if you like. Four days ago there were four children who died in one of the camps in a fire, and that happens because they live in camps with thin tents, and they then try to stay warm, thereby creating these fires all the time. In 2019 alone there were 300 children, at least 300 children, in the same camp who died due to hunger, coldness or malnutrition. Others are severely traumatized by the atrocities that they have experienced in their lives: war, violence, mutilation, death, anything that children should not be subjected to. In one of the camps the children live directly on top of an oil field, the air is thick with pollution, and the crude oil runs visibly through a stream through the camp. It's not a place for kids to grow up. We can quickly agree that the choices made by the children's parents are terrible, they are incomprehensible. The choice to join an Islamic cult of death I will never stand here apologizing or explaining away, never, but is it fair that we punish the children for the actions of their parents? We do not mean that in the SF. We believe that when you are always on the side of the children, it also means that you do not allow the children to bear for the actions of their parents. When you are always on the side of the children, you cannot sit on the bell-clear message from the United Nations Children's Committee and listen to a message that the children are going home. Children are neither radicalized nor terrorist, they are children, and they need to play, they need to go to school, they cannot thrive without security. PET has even estimated that these children are not a danger, but the longer we leave them in the courtyard of hell, the greater the risk that they will be radicalised. That's what the Center for Terror Analysis evaluates. We have therefore written in black and white that we protect Denmark best by bringing the children home immediately, and the same message has also been heard from our close allies the United States over and over again: Bring the children home now! That is why we are making proposals together with the Radicals, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative today, because we want to get the children home immediately. Although it is probably uncomfortable, we still have a responsibility for those children, and even if it is not that easy, we must and must lift that responsibility and not leave the children in a no-man's country. We cannot leave them to die at worst or other things that are particularly bad. No matter how angry we are with our parents, we must not kid the children's right to a life of security. We have ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and we risk breaking it as long as the children stay in a desert in Syria and suffer. We must never break the fundamental principles of law in an attempt to defend them themselves. Right now we are faced with the absurd situation that former Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen recognises that children must go home, that the Youth of the Left recognises that children must go home, while those who claim to be on the side of the children will still not take responsibility. Even more absurd is it when we know that the Left, Conservative and Liberal Alliance must have stood together before the election to promise a little very sick girl in 4 years that she was going home with her mother. They had the posts in the ministries responsible for the so-called 'authority group', which are responsible for dealing with these cases. But the fact that a red government in the gloom and darkness of night apparently canceled it is beyond comprehension. That is why I have an appeal to everyone in the Chamber today: let us be on the side of the children, including those who are trapped in the courtyard of hell in Syria. Let's get them home now!
ParlaMint-DK_20210302231214	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302231219	Well, the rapporteurs from the parties behind this keep saying this about the kids going home: let's get them home. But nothing is said about women. Are they going at the same time, or are the children to be forcibly removed from their mother? Or do you mean, when you say that the children should be brought home, in fact, not that the whole family should be brought home? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302231243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302231245	In SF we will always do what is best for the children. We do not think that we should do anything actively to bring parents home, but we must also recognise that if, for example, there is one thing that needs to be done. in the case of the little four-year-old girl is a medical opinion which says that the treatment of this girl simply cannot succeed without taking the mother home, so of course we have to do it. We have to do what's best for the kids.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302231311	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302231312	So it means the whole family has to go home, not just the kids. I think it's nice to have it confirmed here. I also find it interesting to ask: what then when that mother comes home to Denmark, is she still not a war criminal? And is that the right mother to raise her children? Isn't what is happening at the moment, in fact, child abuse with the way the children have been brainwashed? There are many dilemmas in this, but I have now found that the SF and the other parties want to bring the whole family home. I thought it was useful knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302231348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302231350	In SF, I can only repeat, we do what is best for the children. And if the assessment is as in the case of the little girl that we have to take the mother to succeed with the treatment, then that's what we have to do. I don't see how we can get around that at all. We do not think that we should actively help all parents home, but we should do what is best for children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302231411	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. There are no more brief comments. Could the rapporteur please prepare the platform? Someone's gonna do that. The rapporteur just left. The next rapporteur, who will be standing in the chair in a moment, is the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302231445	Thank you for the floor, President. Children must grow up with play, not in a camp. My stomach hurts when I hear about a Danish child, only 4 years old, who suffers in a life-threatening camp. The doctors say, according to articles in DR and Berlingske, that the child must go home as soon as possible; otherwise it will have serious and lasting but. It is a Danish girl who gets serious and lasting but, but where a majority of the politicians at Christiansborg do nothing. It would be a gigantic failure if Denmark did not help a 4-year-old Danish child with a high risk of permanent psychological damage. Radical Left has no peace of mind until that child comes home to Denmark. For what more is it necessary to take Danish children home? What are we waiting for? It is a failure to let children grow up in dangerous camps. Not only health reasons speak for it, including safety. That is why I am now quoting PET's latest threat assessment from the spring of last year. It reads: "It is unlikely, after the CTA's " Center for Terror Analysis' assessment, that there will be a current terrorist threat from children of persons travelling from Denmark to the conflict zone. In this context, it is also CTA's assessment that the risk of indoctrination and influence is increased as a starting point, the longer the children stay in a radicalised environment, including in the camps in north-east Syria. ▪ Children thus pose an unlikely small risk, but the longer the Danish children stay in a radicalised environment, the greater the risk that they will pose a threat. In other words, what on earth are we waiting for? The more politicians hesitate, the more risk children can pose. It was health and safety, and then there is the legal, and here the children's convention states: Every child has a natural right to life. Denmark shall ensure, as far as possible, the survival and development of the child. Article 2: States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that the child is protected from all forms of discrimination or punishment on account of the child's parents. Punishment on account of the child's parents! But have more people not already said that it is because of the children's parents that we cannot take them home? And how does this relate to the fact that, according to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, children's parents cannot be punished? It doesn't make any sense! I could also continue with Article 9: States Parties shall ensure that the child is not separated from their parents against their will, except where competent authorities whose decision is subject to judicial review in accordance with applicable law and practice provide that such separation is necessary in the interests of the child's best interests. So health, safety and legal conditions are in favour of taking the children home, not forgetting the humanitarian situation. There UNICEF also says clearly: Take Danish children home. They did so a few days ago the day after four children died in a fire in the overcrowded prison camp of Al-Hol in northeastern Syria. It is dangerous for children to stay in the deadly camps for their mental health, for their potential radicalisation and therefore for Denmark. Danish children are a Danish responsibility, whether you live in Holstebro or in Al-Hol. Denmark must not turn its back on children. Kids have to play, not grow up in a camp. PET speaks in favour. UNICEF is in favour. Health, security, legal and humanitarian matters advocate. So does the Radical Left and the other authors of this motion for a resolution. The Danish children are going home to Denmark. We're not gonna calm down until we start taking the four-year-old Danish girl home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302231955	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302231958	Thank you. Now we have also received the Radical Left's confirmation that it is the whole family that is going home. It's not just the baby alone, but you keep saying, "The kids are going home, the kids are going home." We have received confirmation of this. What I want to ask the rapporteur is whether he thinks it is healthy for a child to grow up with a mother who is a terrorist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302232022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302232024	It is certainly not very good for a child to grow up in a deadly camp surrounded by terrorists, and that is precisely why the Radical Left and others believe that these children should be taken home as soon as possible. It will be in Denmark's safety interest to such an extent, because children should not grow up in a camp of terrorists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302232041	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302232042	But now Mr. Kristian Hegaard it again: that it is important that these children come home. Why does the rapporteur not say: it is important for the whole family to come home so that we can confirm that this is what all the proposers really want? I don't get the answer to that question. It may not be healthy to grow up in a camp, but is it healthy for a child to be raised by a mother who is a terrorist?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302232108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302232110	I think the questioner should read the motion for a resolution, because it is our position that the Danish children should go home clearly. They don't have anything good to do in these camps. It is not good for them to grow up together with a large number of potential terrorists, and that is why they have to go home before they may be liberated or before the camps may cease to exist so that children can be recruited again by the Islamic State. It is best for Denmark's safety and especially for the children to take them home as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302232142	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And then, in a moment, it will be the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Rosa Lund, for the first part of the speech, as rapporteur for her party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302232204	Thank you. It says something about the importance of the matter that we can all keep the spirit of debate up at this time. I take the floor now to stress that this is about Danish citizens, i.e. people who Denmark is responsible for not the Kurds, not all sorts of others, but Denmark. It is about children for whom Denmark is responsible. I've made a choice. I'll always be on the side of the kids. And I hope that those of you watching will make that choice with me. It comes with a price. That makes any hard decision. But no matter how bad people feel, we all want the best for our children. I believe so, but so does our Prime Minister, because this quote comes from the Prime Minister's New Year's speech on the first day of the year in 2020: a speech about children's rights and a point about how all Danish children deserve a good and safe upbringing. And when you listen to the debate today, you can clearly hear that not all Danish children are involved. This speech was not for all Danish children. The Prime Minister is obviously only a minister for some of the poor excuses for why the children we are talking about today should be exempt from the protection and care of the state is simply endlessly long, and it often gets mixed up with foreign policy and for the occasion, even today, invented terrorist threats. PET itself says that these children do not pose a terrorist threat if we take them to Denmark. The proposal we are discussing today is therefore not about Danish citizens who, according to the government, have turned their backs on Denmark; the proposal we are debating today is about the children whom the self-appointed Prime Minister of the children has turned their backs on. This proposal concerns the 40 children who sit in the Al-Hol camp and the Al-Roj camp in northern Syria. In 2019 children died in these camps because of the conditions in which they live, in fact as much as 371. And we just saw that there was a fire in the camp where four children died. In my view, therefore, there is no doubt that the fact that these children are in these prison camps poses a very serious risk that, if they survive, they will have permanent physical and psychological men. And according to the government itself, it is precisely the risk of getting serious but that is the reason for evacuating the children. Yet nothing has happened for years. Even when we have several medical reports from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' own experts, we have an assessment that there is a girl we have known about for 3 years who has been diagnosed as a condition she has come into this camp. In the government you say, dear Foreign Minister, that you closely follow the developments of these children, and you have even made extra effort, and then you have established such a group of authorities. But then we've been able to read in the press lately that this authority group doesn't meet. And when we ask questions about it in the Enhedslisten, we come into such a strange evil spiral, where we are sent from the Minister for Justice to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and then finally to this authority group, which apparently never meets. So how can the government be on this case in a group that doesn't meet? They don't even meet on Teams. That is certainly not something we can get an answer to in the Enhedslisten. The only answer we can get is that the last time they met was August 2019. It may be that we can become wiser today; it may be that the government will start answering our questions now. At least I think it's weird. This is very hard to understand, and it's for me to see pure Kafka. But I can be wrong, too. Perhaps the Foreign Minister and the government have taken their inspiration from Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tales • The emperor's new clothes • Because for me to see and for everyone else there is no doubt that the government has no clothes on. It is the same when you point out that there is humanitarian aid in the areas. Nor can we be told: what humanitarian aid is being given to the Kurds? For us to see humanitarian aid stranded somewhere else. It doesn't come to the Kurds. Nor can we get an answer to that, and I really hoped that we could get an answer to that today. The Prime Minister apologized to the Godhavn boys because the state had not taken good care of them at the time. If we don't do something now, there's a prime minister standing there to apologize to these children in 25 years' time if we're so lucky they'll be alive by then.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302232736	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302232806	I would like to begin by recognising the good intentions behind this resolution. With this resolution, the proposers propose to bring all Danish children from refugee camps in Syria to Denmark. It is a very difficult subject, which causes great emotions in many people, and I understand that, because it is a difficult dilemma. On the one hand, we all want children to grow up in peace and security, and I also believe that we all have sympathy for the Danish children who sit in the camps. On the other hand, we have parents who have turned their backs on Denmark and who have become part of one of the worst and most brutal terrorist organisations that exist and, in my view, parents are traitors. We haven't mentioned what we're dealing with in relation to the parents, but I'm gonna read up a few quotes. Denmark's Radio has visited the Al-Hol camp, and Danish Radio's journalist Michael S. Lund writes: "Almost all women in the camp are fully covered and many of them still support the ideology of Islamic State. ▪ One of the mothers says: "If God wills, the Islamic State will return. ▪ Another yelling: The Islamic State will survive and expand! Michael S. Lund writes: "I am trying to explain to them that the Islamic State has committed terrorist attacks in Europe and taken women and children as slaves, and that there may be a good reason why their husbands are in prison. It's all bullshit. They were innocent. No one is as honorable as them, says one of the women while she waves her gloved hand in my face. He interviewes a 9-year-old boy named Abdullah and asks what his dream for the future is. He says he wants to be a Mujahid, holy warrior. That's what we're up against. These aren't innocent parents and kids. I recognise that very young children do not have those attitudes, but there are therefore some teenage children who may be at risk of safety. They are depicted as victims, but one forgets that the real victims are the Yazidi women who were sold as sex slaves, and it is the homosexuals who were pushed off the third, fourth or fifth floor. Those are the right victims. These people have been part of a brutal terrorist movement, and I don't see them as victims. They have chosen side • Some of them stood demonstratively and burned off their Danish passport and put it on YouTube • So I have no sympathy with the parents. For the Conservative People's Party, it is important that we act properly when faced with such great dilemmas as this. I am happy to admit that it is not an easy decision to make, but we need to think about Denmark's security. The Danish Islamic State terrorists have turned their backs on Denmark; they went to fight for an Islamic caliphate, they joined one of the most brutal organizations the world has ever known. The Islamic State has killed, tortured and raped, and they have sold women and children as sex slaves. I don't have a word for how awful an organization it is. And they knew what they were entering when they entered Syria and joined the organization. Everything else is bad excuses. They left Welfare Denmark for an Islamic caliphate. Again, they are traitors. Having said that, if there are children without parents who need medical help, it must be based on a concrete assessment. There has been an example of this in the past, and when we were asked about it at the time, we said that we did not feel sorry for it. But having to pick them all up, we're not in. We pick up the kids, the parents come after, and then you can refer to all kinds of conventions. We are going to be in a situation where we also have to pick up their parents, and we will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233324	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur and the first is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233326	Thank you. I do not think anyone has any sympathy with people who have made the choice to fight side by side with the Islamic State. That is not why we are making this proposal. We're making this proposal because the kids haven't made that choice. Their parents have, but the children have not made that choice, and therefore they should not be punished. That's one reason. The second reason is that the Kurds should not be punished for the fact that some Danish citizens have made the insanely ridiculous choice to fight side by side with the Islamic State that the Kurds have defeated, but now they are also hanging on the bill. I simply cannot understand why Conservatives think that is reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233411	I'm a fan of the Kurds. I think they've fought a brave fight. We chose to fight the Islamic State from the air, because we didn't want anyone on the ground, but the Kurds did, so all respect for the Kurds. They also face a huge challenge, but we do not solve that by just bringing all the children to Denmark, because the parents are coming with us. We are in favour of helping the Kurds with both funding in relation to the camps, compared to those in the camps, but we are not in favour of picking up the children in general, because then the parents will follow. We have no guarantee that parents will not follow, because all kinds of conventions will be referred to afterwards and the children's right to be with their parents, and then we have the parents here that we do not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233459	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233502	But the Kurds themselves have asked that we get our own citizens. So to help the Kurds we do by saying that we will take our citizens home, ensure that the adults come to court, are prosecuted and that children can have a safe and good child life. After all, the Conservative People's Party was itself part of a government that was in charge of that line. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen was the Minister of Justice of a government which was in charge of that line, for the practice which has now been changed. So I see this as the Conservative People's Party has changed its mind since they were in government offices.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233546	We haven't changed our minds. I was also the rapporteur then, and I have not changed my position. I spoke on behalf of the party. We have been in the debate many times, in the Deadline and elsewhere, where I have also had that position, so we have not changed our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233603	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233608	I agree with Mr. Naser Khader in that there are very, very strong Islamic, terrorist traits of some of those kept in Al-Hol camp. That is why the self-government authorities cannot just let them out. In other words, even if you do not have concrete evidence and have prosecuted, you cannot just let them out, because you do not know who it is. But I'd just like to ask Mr. Knox. Naser Khader to confirm that many of the fires we heard about earlier are aimed at people in the Al-Hol camp who refuse to follow the Islamic State's commands and that women are killed, that children are attacked if they do not live up to the internal regime of the Islamic State in the camp. In other words, there are people who have a different attitude than the IS who are being attacked. - Sir... Doesn't Khader confirm it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233714	First of all, they should not just be released. We have talked a lot about setting up an international war criminal court locally so that they can be prosecuted down there, and it is also easier to prosecute them down there. I myself suggested that it could be in Cyprus, because it is nearby, and it is also an EU country. It's not like I'm saying they just need to be released. They must also be prosecuted for the sake of the many victims, Yazidi women and others whom they have treated in this way. So, of course, they must be prosecuted. In relation to the fact that those who do not agree with the ideology of Islamic states are being persecuted in the camp, then we must help the Kurds to gain greater security around the camp. And then it has to be said that the questioner implicitly says that all those who have Danish ties are not in favour of ideology and I do not believe in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233811	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233813	However, it is good to make it clear that we cannot just say that because people are in Al-Hol camp, they have one attitude, but that there are actually hardcore Islamists, and that there are people who do not want to live by the rules that are then subjected to assault, torture, murder, burning in their tents. But what I just want to hear, sir. Naser Khader in the end is what we do before we start supporting the Kurds. For now I have heard that I do not know how many years to support the Kurds, but there is no support for the self-government authorities, for example. the operation of the camps.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233901	Oh, I mean, there's support. It is not something they themselves finance; there is support from the Western countries. However, we are in favour of supporting them even more than we are doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233911	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And if the rapporteur would like to dry off the matter there must be order. Thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur, who is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302233949	In 2013, one of Denmark's homegrown IS terrorists, Jacob el-Ali, went to Syria, dressed up in Islamic State's uniform and posed next to bleeding, headless bodies and chopped heads. In October 2019 we voted in New Citizens to deprive him and other IS terrorists of their Danish citizenship. Unfortunately, this was not adopted. The Left and the Radical Left did not want to hear about it; the Social Democracy, the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance would only deprive the IS terrorists of the Danish nationality. And it had the consequence that Jacob el-Ali was extradited to Denmark, and in December 2020 he landed at Copenhagen Airport. A large majority in the Folketing left the consideration of international conventions above the consideration of the Danes' security and security. And I can understand the many Danes who were shocked that a terrorist who has turned his back on Denmark and fought for the Islamic State against Danish soldiers, against Danish values, was allowed to come to Denmark when IS had suffered defeat. Fortunately, in January 2020, a majority of this Parliament decided that children of Danish parents born in areas where a terrorist organisation is party to an armed conflict should no longer automatically be able to become Danish citizens. This is positive, but it does not mean that there are no children with Danish citizenship in camps in Syria and it is an unfortunate situation for those children. Because they have not chosen their parents, nor have they chosen to go to Syria, but they are the children of their parents. And if they end up going to Denmark in any way whatsoever, we believe that each of them should be assessed by the Police Intelligence Service, and those who may pose a security risk should of course not go to Denmark. In the case of orphans, they must be placed in foster families with Danish background on arrival in Denmark. If there is a mother or father in Syria, the children of the parents must be given for adoption by a family with Danish background. Family reunification should never be possible, and this must be clarified in the legislation, because the traitorous parents are not going to Denmark. It may be that it goes against international conventions and obligations, and for me and for new citizens it is quite meaningless. For us, there is nothing more important than the safety and security of the Danes in their own country. No international convention or interpretation of it should stand in the way of protecting ourselves from terrorism, violence and assault. We cannot allow the security and security to be subordinated to some convention that the politicians of the past saw some interest in joining. Back in February 2019, the then Foreign Minister Anders Samuelsen said, and I quote: "Denmark may be best served by returning dangerous Danish IS warriors. I simply cannot disagree more, because when IS terrorists and yes, let us call them what they are, because we should not glorify them as warriors, they will not get out again. We must not allow traitors who, with violence and terror, have fought everything we stand for to return to Denmark. They have to stay where they are. And that is why, of course, New Citizens cannot support this proposal by the Radical Left and the Left, because it would mean free access to Denmark for traitorous IS terrorists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234359	There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234405	Thank you. This proposal is not about conventions. This proposal is about the Danes. This proposal is about Danish citizens. It is not about all kinds of other citizens or about conventions that I know you in New Citizens have a different relationship with than we have in the Enhedslisten. That's not what this proposal is about. This proposal is about the fact that as a country we must of course protect the Danes, as the rapporteur himself says, in other words Danish citizens, and these children, as we have proposed, are Danish citizens. That is why it is a little contradictory when the rapporteur says that we must protect the Danes, but we simply do not want to protect these Danes, or how do we understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234453	I can confirm with peace of mind the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten that protecting the Danes is something that we in the New Citizens' Party defend and fight for every day, and it is certainly not the same idea of protecting the Danes as Enhedslisten has. I have a lot of peace in my stomach that we have very different places in this area. I said very clearly in my rapporteur's speech how things are. I know that Enhedslisten really wants these IS terrorists to Denmark. But it is a completely failed approach. These are some who have accepted completely grotesque violence. They simply have to stay far, far away. And, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, if the situation should arise that some of these children should end up in Denmark, we have some very clear proposals on what should happen. Parents must of course give them up for adoption; they must be placed in a good Danish family; and of course it must also be assessed whether they represent a safety risk. For example, there is also a great difference between how old the child is. But as things stand now, taking into account conventions and various things, if the rapporteur's proposal goes through, it will mean that these IS terrorists will come to Denmark. It will be absolutely devastating.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234614	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234617	When we want these IS terrorists to Denmark, it is because we want them punished, Mrs Mette Thiesen; then it is because we want to be sure that they are actually going to court that their criminal acts are actually being investigated. That's why. I understand if it can be difficult for New Citizens to agree with Enhedslisten on something, but can't New Citizens agree with PET that taking these children home to Denmark doesn't pose a terrorist risk and that there's actually a greater risk of these children being radicalised if they stay where they are? So this is not something we say in the Enhedslisten. That's what Special Branch says.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234700	The rapporteur completely clouds the debate, as the rapporteur did earlier in the debate with the Socialist rapporteur. What the rapporteur wants is to have completely insane IS terrorists to Denmark who can wander around among us Danes and commit terror. It is devastating for Denmark. What the rapporteur is proposing is devastating for Denmark. So, no, of course we do not support Enhedslisten's proposal. It's just common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234723	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234728	I would also like to hear from New Citizens about a question I have put to other parties in the past: do New Citizens believe that these children will stay in the camps forever? Because if New Citizens do not believe in it either, then one knows that there is a risk that they will be radicalised during the time that goes on until they are released, and then they will pose a risk to Denmark. So is the best way to help Denmark not take these children home and make sure that we avoid radicalisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234808	I think that I have just replied very clearly and clearly to how you should approach it if it was that some of them should end up going to Denmark. I have been very clear about that. What the questioner and the author's party, as co-sponsors of this proposal, are in charge of, is ensuring that these IS terrorists who have fought against Danish values, against the Danish state; who have burned people alive and raped women and children; so, all these terrible, terrible things, too, come to Denmark. That is what the questioner's party is making itself spokesmen for, and of course we do not support it at all in any way whatsoever. That would be completely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234849	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234851	Can New Citizens guarantee that with the track that New Citizens have agreed here, these people will never come to Denmark and will never be radicalised? Well, these kids actually have an opportunity right now to avoid being radicalized by taking them home; then we can avoid it. But can New Citizens guarantee that they will not actually achieve the opposite of what they want, namely greater insecurity, by leaving these children in the camps?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302234922	No. You run a little in circles, because I have said clearly how it should be done, in case some of them should end up going to Denmark. It is very clear that their parents must of course give them up for adoption, and that they must be security rated and placed in a good Danish family with Danish background; it goes without saying. But as it stands right now, the proposal of the author's party, that is to say the proposal now from the left, will mean that these IS terrorists will also come to Denmark, and that will be devastating for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235000	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235003	A few years ago there was an Islamic terrorist who tried to murder a Danish writer out at Frederiksberg, named Lars Hedegaard, and then the terrorist fled to Turkey. On the basis of what I hear from the New Citizens' rapporteur, I would just like to ask whether it was a mistake for the Danish Government to ask him to be extradited to Denmark for prosecution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235033	We are, of course, in favour of the fact that if you are convicted of crime and you are a foreigner, then you must be shown consistently after the first sentence. I know Lars Hedegaard very well. He's a good man, and we also agree on a lot of things. But the problem is that the left wing, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has led the way for a completely misguided policy on foreigners for far too many years. There are a lot of people who have acquired citizenship that should never have had it. There has been a lenient conversation both with citizenship, but also with the security and security of the Danes, because one has had such an incredibly misguided immigration policy. That's one of them. What we are facing today is the consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235111	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235117	I understand that the rapporteur for New Citizens used many words not to answer the question whether he should have been sent back to Denmark to be prosecuted. For that goes against everything the rapporteur has said here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament. He wasn't supposed to. And what was the result? It was, of course, that the Turkish authorities handed him over to the Islamic State, where he sat and made bomb recipes and plans for attack on Europe. It came out that he was not extradited to Denmark and prosecuted in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235154	No, that's not what came out of it. Already when he was in Denmark, he committed very serious crime because he already committed this attack on Lars Hedegaard because he was already radicalised there because of Islam. So no, it's not about that at all. It is about the fact that Enhedslisten has led a misguided immigration policy, which has closed too many people who are never going to share our values into Denmark and has given too many citizenships to a lot of people who should never have had it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235234	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235237	Thank you. I just want to know whether the rapporteur agrees that the best people to assess Danish security are PET.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235249	Yes, PET is very good at assessing safety, but I do not think anyone in this Chamber has considered that, for example, infants pose a safety risk. I have not heard anyone advocate it at all. But, of course, it is clear that PET will have to assess each and every one of them, if that is at all relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235313	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235315	It is, of course, gratifying that, now that we are approaching midnight, we can find a common agreement between the New Civil and Radicals, namely that PET is very capable of assessing the issue of safety. That's why I want to hear about something else. PET writes in their analysis from March last year that the risk of indoctrination and influence is increased as a starting point, the longer the children stay in a radicalised environment, including in the camps in north-east Syria. When Special Branch assesses it, isn't it reasonable to get them out of those camps?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235353	It's not if their parents keep up. Now I know that the Radical Left, like the Enhedslisten, as I also said to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, has led this very, very misguided immigration policy and will probably also lead the view that it is a very good idea for dangerous IS terrorists to come to Denmark. We are just more concerned about the security and security of the Danes than we are about whether IS terrorists are sitting in a camp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235415	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. If the rapporteur would be kind enough to prepare for the next rapporteur, everything is fine. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235439	Thank you. It's about to pass midnight in this room. This debate, which we have had, has actually brought the matter up to date. In an article on DR's website this evening, when a UN chief raises a craziest criticism of Denmark, you let Danish citizens sit under torture-like conditions, says the UN Special Rapporteur on the handling of Danish citizens in camps in north-east Syria: "Here we have a state like Denmark that pretends to support the Children's Convention, which pretends to have a humane starting point to the way one treats one's citizens who advocate to separate children who have already been traumatized beyond all conceptions, from their mothers. ▪ I think it is clear talk, and it is liberating in this debate, which, as always, when it comes to refugees and immigrants, and often especially when it comes to Muslims, is more marked by emotion than by reason. In north-east Syria there are at least 2 men, 7 women and 19 children according to the article that appeared this evening. Should we take the kids home? Yeah, the alternative thinks so. In the opinion of PET, the 19 children do not pose a terrorist threat. Maybe their parents do. But then you have to try to have them prosecuted in Denmark, just like you, for example. Do in Norway. Bringing the children home is the most humane, the most humanitarian, the most loving. It is also the legally correct thing, it respects the conventions, and that is probably the safest thing. We risk the 19 children being radicalised and coming home as the foreign fighters that the government is constantly talking about, while the others are talking about children. Children are at the beginning of their lives. We have to look after them if we can, especially when they're sick and injured. That is a reason in itself to take them home, another is that those who vote against this proposal risk creating a greater terrorist threat than those who have tabled it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235705	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235712	Just for a moment, the kids are going home, I understand. Do the mothers have to go home too?
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235719	If that is not possible in any other way: yes, and they must be prosecuted if it is the case that they have carried on any type of terrorist activity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235727	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235730	Well, it's nice to finally have someone from the parties behind this, who told the truth. That is what this is all about. The children are going home, and their whole family, who are also there with their mothers, and what it is, are going home too. It is so good to make that clear, and that is why I would like to thank the alternative rapporteur for being the only one who said the truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235750	Here were two, most other fathers were dead, and there is even a small portion of mothers. If we take them home and ensure that those whom we can prove have committed terrorism are prosecuted, we will go much further than the rapporteur's party, which is, after all, carrying out a counter-productive activity, when it is the case that we do not want to prevent the 19 children from being radicalised and coming home as terrorists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210302235817	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is outside the groups, and that is Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303235842	Right now Danish children are in the Al-Roj and Al-Hol camps. These children grow up as no child should grow up, namely in a prison camp. Free Greens believe that children should never pay for their parents' actions. But that is exactly what the Danish children in Syrian prison camps are doing right now. Denmark is at a crossroads. We can disclaim responsibility and look the other way or just take responsibility and bring the children home to Denmark, no matter how disagreeable we are with the actions and actions of their parents. Allowing Danish children to live in dangerous conditions in both a physical and a psychologically dangerous environment tends child abuse on the part of the Danish government. An article from DR recently reported on a 4-year-old Danish girl who has already had a four-year-old child in her short life and we did not bring her home long ago. It is not only the mother's responsibility but also the Danish state that has allowed it to happen. The article from DR can also read how the 4-year-old girl and the other children grow up under conditions of pollution, traumatic conditions, disease conditions; it is as far from a normal life as it can possibly be. I do not think we can be familiar with that. I have a son of my own, Michael, and yesterday he turned 1 year old. I know the Secretary of State has children too. I know that many of the honourable Members in this Chamber, including those who are voting against, have children, and although they are opposed to bringing them home, I just need to say clearly and clearly in this Chamber: can we really • can we really leave these children in the lurch with a good conscience? Small children in a prison camp in Syria. These children have already suffered much more trauma than any of us adults will ever undergo in our lives. I don't understand. When you say 'A', you must also say 'B'. Denmark is also responsible for destabilising the Middle East. We have been engaged in several wars for a number of years without almost preaching a mine and here at home digging the truth deep down by closing e.g. The Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. So now the Greens think it is time that we also take our share of responsibility in the Middle East and at least take our fellow citizens, our own citizens, home. On the one hand, we cannot be involved in wars, we cannot help destabilising an entire region and, on the other hand, we cannot take responsibility when it burns. Our geopolitical action hits us like a boomerang. War has consequences. Free Greens want to pursue a secure geopolitics that ensures the safety of the Danish state. The Kurdish authorities responsible for the al-Roj and al-Hol camps are warning through the foreign officer of the semiautonomous Kurdish regime that if the situation in the camps remains as it is, we will see a new generation of terrorists more dangerous than the IS is now; a generation that has grown up with the ideology and mentality of terrorists about revenge, says Abdulkarim Omar, who makes a sharp criticism of Europe for not bringing its citizens home. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Minister for Foreign Affairs will listen, I have an appeal to both the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Government and the Prime Minister of the children: let us now bring our children home. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303000310	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur in the series of rapporteurs is the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303000333	Thank you. And thank you for a good debate. You always learn something new down here in Parliament, and for example. I have just learned from New Citizens' Mrs Mette Thiesen that Enhedslisten should have been in charge of Danish immigration policy for the last 20 years. I just have to say that we haven't discovered that in the Enhedslisten. I also believe that the Danish People's Party is of a slightly different conviction as to who has led the immigration policy for the last 20 years. But let it go. We made this proposal because we wanted to talk about these children. Yet we have talked a great deal about adults, because it is the case that it is connected, and according to the government there are foreign fighters who pose a huge threat to Denmark. I have to say that I fully agree with that. But by letting them stay where they are now, there is no There is no There will be if we take them home to Denmark where they can come to trial. A majority of us in this House have heard today that the threat of terrorism will increase if these lone women and their children are taken home. Nobody else is judging that, except for you. Although the government withheld PET's assessment of the Danes trapped in Syria for a whole year, it does not change PET's conclusion that right now we are helping to increase the risk of terrorism. As PET concluded, the risk of terror will be lower the sooner we get them home. But apparently we have a government which, in the sacred name of populism, will make Denmark a more dangerous place to live. When you have done something criminal, you must be prosecuted and the courts must measure up. The women we're talking about here are suspected of having committed crime. We have asked the Minister for Justice, and the Minister for Justice states that in the prosecution there are no charges against these women who are trapped in Syria and that the prosecution does not actually know the names and identity of any of them at all. It's a little weird considering they're so criminals. Should we not, as a country, take responsibility for our citizens and ensure that they are charged, ensure that they are prosecuted if they are criminals? I certainly think we should. We have established a few times, I think, in this debate that this affects innocent children. But it also affects some others. It affects the Kurds who have fought Denmark's fight against the Islamic State with many human costs, and they are now holding Danish citizens captive because as a country we cannot take responsibility for them ourselves. Thanks for coming to help, don't you guys do the cleanup, too? That is the message that we are sending to the Kurds right now, and we simply cannot be aware of this; we cannot be aware of this message to send to people who have fought for our rights and for our democracy. In all other situations, Denmark steps in and brings its citizens home when they are trapped under inhuman conditions, even though they have been convicted of serious crime abroad. We take responsibility for our citizens and, at the same time, we will not accept that people are subjected to torture-like conditions. At least that's how it used to be, and I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is still helping Danes who are imprisoned around the world and who have committed serious crime, but you just don't help these people. With the government's line on this very group of Danes, we are, after all, derogating from everything we usually stand for, about legal certainty, about democracy, about rights. We accept that Danes are being held in a state of pitiful conditions without I do not think it is worthy of the rule of law. For us in the Enhedslisten and for police intelligence, for that matter, there is no doubt about what is going to happen in this case: these children are going home. And I'd like to say a lot of things to Mr. Søren Espersen, who is unfortunately not in the Chamber right now, believes that we in the Enhedslist also believe that women must go home, and that is precisely so that we can prosecute them, it is precisely so that we can ensure that they receive a verdict on their atrocities. That's why. Thank you for the debate. I think I can guarantee that this is not the last time we are going to discuss this matter, in this Chamber, in this circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303000826	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303000842	The following electoral groups were notified: a group of 98 members: Social Democracy, Socialist People's Party, Radical Left, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA), Siumut (SIU), Javnaðarflokkurin (JF), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) a group of 79 members: Left, Danish People's Party, Conservative People's Party, New Civil, Liberal Alliance, Sambandsflokkurin (SP), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Inger Nøjberg (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG). There is a recommendation from the groups on these elections. The names of the elected can be found on the Danish Parliament's website and on www.folketingstidende.dk At the same time, the groups have put forward proposals for the election of the President and Vice-President. Only one has been proposed for each of these posts, and the names are recorded in the Parliamentary Times. 1 Leif Lahn Jensen (S) 2 Jesper Petersen (S) 3 Rasmus Horn Langhoff (S) 4 Jeppe Bruus (S) 5 Christian Rabjerg Madsen (S) 6 Kasper Sand Kjær (S) 7 Jens Joel (S) 8 Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) 9 Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) 10 Stinus Lindgreen (RV) 11 Kristian Hegaard (RV) 12 Peder Hvelplund (EL) 13 Karsten Lauritzen (V) 14 Sophie Løhde (V) 15 Jane Heitmann (V) 16 Martin Geertsen (V) 17 Torsten Schack Pedersen (V) 18 Liselott Blixt (DF) 19 Peter Skaarup (DF) 20 Per Larsen (KF) 21 Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) Chairman: Stinus Lindgreen (RV) Vice-President: Sophie Løhde) 21 Lar (V)
ParlaMint-DK_20210303000948	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today, Wednesday 3 March 2021, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
