ParlaMint-DK_20210527100016	The meeting is open. The meeting is open! Today there are the following reviews: Peder Hvelplund (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 300 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the phasing out of export credits for fossil projects through the portfolio of EKF Danmarks Export Credit. ) The title of the notified case will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100052	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. I'm asking you to check that it's your name that's on the panel. We shall start here with the vote. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 129 of Jep Bruus (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Mads Andersen (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 62 (S, V, KF and LA), against 34 (DF, SF, RV, EL, NB, Inger Støjberg (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. It's agreed. This is the proposal for adoption number V 128 by Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and the proposal for adoption number V 128 by Morten Messerschmidt (DF). V 130 by Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Kristian Hegaard (RV) and Rosa Lund (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100211	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 131 by Christian Juhl (EL), Annette Lind (S), Kim Valentin (V), Karsten Hønge (SF), Henrik Vinther (RV), Marcus Knuth (KF), Henrik Dahl (LA), Jens Rohde (KD), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF). The vote can then be taken. The vote will end. In favour 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and ALT), against 12 (DF, NB and Inger Støjberg (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), abstention 0. It has thus been adopted. This is the draft adoption number V 132 by Søren Espersen (DF) and the draft adoption number V 132 by Søren Espersen (DF) and the draft adoption number V 132 by Søren Espersen (DF) V 133 of Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG) lapsed. The question is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100335	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100342	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Inger Støjberg (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100411	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the negotiations on the amendment have been concluded and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100422	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Industry. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100434	Then we shall proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the legislative proposal and we shall be able to vote on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100441	The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Inger Støjberg (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100510	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100518	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Inger Støjberg (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100545	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100555	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100627	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100636	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 71 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 25 (SF, RV, EL, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100712	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100719	The vote will be taken at the end of the vote. In favour of 11 (DF, NB and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100749	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100756	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 11 votes (DF, NB and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 85 abstentions (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 1 abstentions (LA). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100826	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100832	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 11 (DF, NB and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100859	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100906	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 11 (DF, NB and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100937	No amendments have been tabled. Someone wants to make a statement. As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527100942	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (DF, KF, NB, LA and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 77 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101021	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101026	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 10 (DF and NB), against 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 1 (Inger Støjberg (UFG)). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101059	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101106	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 11 (DF, NB and LA), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, ALT, Inger Løbberg (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101142	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101149	Thank you, President. It should not be a secret that this motion for a resolution has caused gigantic puzzles in the Danish People's Party's Parliamentary Group. 'Cause you're not supposed to see the dog on your hair. Although by looking at the proposers one might immediately think that this is certainly not the policy of the Danish People's Party, that is Mr. Sikandar Siddique, this is sir. Uffe Elbæk, and it is Mrs Susanne Zimmer, who is behind it, is still able to read the details and think a little bit out of the box, and I know that the three honourable Members are very concerned about this. That is why we are also in the Danish People's Party, I will not say in doubt, but we have had to consider. For when it says in the proposal here that the production of goods and services outside Denmark consumed in Denmark must settle CO2 I was in and check the National Bank's overview, and for the last 38 years Denmark has had a surplus on the balance of payments, that is, we are a net export country. It therefore offers some absolutely terrific opportunities, where the government will already be able to cancel the agricultural negotiations......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Unfortunately, when you read other parts of the proposal, things are moving in a different direction. However, I have kept honourable Members in suspense ever since the first reading several months ago, and so allow me to take the floor to trigger the tension and say that, after careful scrutiny and long debates, we are still voting no, but thank you for the good ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101347	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101349	So now the rapporteur came to say twice that this was the alternative's proposal. I can tell you that it isn't. But we have actually had the same thoughts as the rapporteur. We are actually afraid that this will exacerbate climate accounting in the way that Denmark will be allowed to derive more CO2 So we have had the same considerations and we are voting yellow, because there are actually some things in the proposal that are good. So we do not actually disagree with the rapporteur at all, except that it is certainly not the alternative that has proposed this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101426	I'm sorry. I should, of course, have said that this was the earlier alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101431	I do not think there is any need for any more brief comments here. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101440	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 7 (EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 88 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB, LA and Inger Løbberg (UFG)), abstentions 1 (ALT). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101517	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101537	Thank you, President. Since I was ill at first reading of B 163, I would just like to take the floor briefly here. I would like to add a few words to the citizens' proposal to introduce the right to look after their own children during general illness, where there is a proposal to introduce a model that they have in Sweden, where each child is entitled to 120 days of care and sick every year. Now, the proposal for 120 sick days a year is probably something that can cause at least some to get the coffee wrong, but in 2019 Swedish parents actually spent only 7,6 days according to Försäkringskassan. So I just want to say that in the alternative, we are very much in favour of the proposal. Imagine never having to meet again at work with a guilty conscience that you have sent your sick child to crèche, kindergarten or school. Imagine showing up at work with calm in the stomach and a good conscience and with profit for the day waiting even if your child is sick. Because we know that parents send their sick children to an institution and to school because the consequences of not showing up for work push them to do so. Yes, how many of us in this Chamber haven't tried it? I certainly do. In the alternative, we believe that there are many good arguments for voting in favour of this proposal, but just the increased well-being is almost an argument enough in itself for both the social partners and for us politicians from the various parties to find together a new and up-to-date framework for the right to care for children when they are ill. If the Danish model is to prove itself to be for children For it is an unequal battle that children have lost so far, with consequences that extend into working life, family life, public health and everyday life out in the country's schools and day-to-day offers. So in the alternative, we recommend that we adopt this citizens' proposal on the right to care for children during general illness.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101747	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101800	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 16 (SF, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 72 (S, V, RV, KF, NB, LA and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), abstentions 8 (DF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101839	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101845	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF, NB, LA and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against voting 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101916	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101923	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 53 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527101956	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102000	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 54 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102031	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102037	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (DF, KF, NB, LA and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 53 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 24 (V). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102111	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102117	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (DF, EL, NB, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 77 (S, V, SF, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 1 (Inger Støjberg (UFG)). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102149	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102200	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 45 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, ALT and UFG), against 52 (S, SF, RV and EL), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102234	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102237	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (DF, KF, NB, LA and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 78 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102308	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102315	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 11 (DF, NB and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102349	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102357	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 9 (EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 86 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, LA and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), abstentions 2 (NB). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102430	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102442	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, KF and LA), and voting is possible. In favour of 44 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 38 (S and SF), abstentions 15 (RV, EL and ALT). It has thus been adopted. The vote will then be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, KF and LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. For voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 37 (S and SF), abstentions 15 (RV, EL and ALT). It has thus been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102558	Then there is the debate on the proposal as a whole. Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102603	This resolution is about those who have rare diseases in Denmark. They have some patients' associations which cannot be recognised as general welfare associations, and this has an impact on whether they can obtain tax credits for gifts to these associations. There is a tax difference because there are too few people who have the diseases, know about the diseases and join the associations. This is unfair discrimination and that is why I have tabled this motion for a resolution. In fact, a broad majority in the Folketing welcomed the motion for a resolution, but in a few moments a broad majority in the Folketing, as I understand it, will reject the motion for a resolution. I am glad that, after all, we are abstaining from voting on our amendments so that they can be adopted, because I have tried to respond to all the concerns that the Folketing had about this motion for a resolution. It was about taking several exceptions into account, and it was about ensuring that it was not until next year that the government had to put forward a legislative proposal. Fortunately, they have been adopted; they are against the government's votes, but they have been adopted. But now we are going to vote on whether the government should put forward a bill in the next session on whether associations for rare diseases can be recognised as public welfare associations, and I just hope that you will remember that when you have to press the button in a moment, that is, that it is about rare diseases: whether they should be treated like the major diseases, and whether they should also be taxed for them. We in the Left think so, and that is why I hope that you will consider and vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, which simply requires us to eliminate the discrimination that exists today against rare diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102738	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102746	We shall vote on the proposal as a whole and we shall vote on it. Here you go. The vote will end. For voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB, ALT, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 52 (S, SF, RV and EL), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102819	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102827	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 52 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102905	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102911	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against voting 53 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102940	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527102947	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-15, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG))? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527103009	Amendments have been tabled. The Minister for Taxation has informed me that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 9 in the report back. Does anyone wish to accept this amendment? If that is not the case, the amendment has lapsed. It's gone. Does anyone wish to comment on the amendments? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527103033	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)) that the bill is divided into two? It has been adopted and thus the draft law is divided into two. The draft law referred to in A shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-8, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG))? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 16 outside the report by the tax minister as adopted. It's agreed. The draft law referred to in B shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 10-15, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG))? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law referred to in A goes directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. It has been proposed that the draft law referred to in B be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527103143	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527103149	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, KF and NB), and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 55 (S, SF, RV, EL, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527103233	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527103250	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by Inger Løbberg (UFG) and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 11 (DF, NB and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527103327	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527103351	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527103357	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (DF), joined by a minority (KF and NB), that the bill is divided into two and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 11 (DF, NB and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The division of the bill has been rejected. The single legislative proposal shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection approved Amendment No 2 by a majority (with the exception of the RV and EL) on Amendment No 2. Amendment No 3 was accepted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Amendment No 4 was adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of the RV and EL). I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is prepared to accept this amendment. 5-8, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of RV and EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 10.50.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527105004	The sitting is resumed. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 1 June. First, for the explanatory statement, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527105033	I note that the government has given a great deal of attention to higher education today. But what Enhedslisten now wants to debate here with a question to the Minister is a focus on adult and continuing education, which we believe is a great need for priority. The Industrial Council of the Workers' Movement recently estimated that we could be short of 99,000 skilled workers in nine years' time if we did not engage massively in training. The same Industry Council has presented the shocking figure that almost a third of the 40-year-old unskilled and skilled workers have not participated in public continuing training in the last 10 years and that we can see a dramatic decline in activity in labour market training. It's just a few numbers here for a start to say it's a really bad combination. And the final figures relating to continuing training bear witness to the sad fact that the groups which received least or no training when they were young are also those which are disadvantaged in terms of education later in life. It is not only a problem for those concerned who are left behind in education, but also a social problem to a very great extent. This is particularly true in relation to the green transition. If we do not lift up the area of adult and continuing training, we will be lacking in manpower with the right skills, and this can delay the transition and thus have serious consequences for the achievement of the far-reaching climate objectives we have set ourselves. When Enhedslisten asks the question I would also like to end by saying here that it is not because we believe that nothing is happening in this area. We ourselves are involved in agreements in this area, but we believe that it is too slow to lift up the field of adult and continuing training, and we think that both more and more initiatives are needed, both in relation to general adult education and vocational adult and further education. And I look forward to hearing the Minister's statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527105255	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound, and we're just gonna get wiped off, Jakob. Thank you. And that is precisely the answer that we are coming to now. Minister for Children and Education, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527105314	Thank you. And I would like to say that the last remarks are very, very much in agreement, in other words both that we have actually put initiatives together, and in other words that there is certainly something going on from the professional committees who sit and work with it in everyday life, but also from the remark that things are going too slowly. And that is, of course, because we have been standing in a place the last year, where virtually all work has been subjected to corona. That is why I think I will be able to use the phrase that goes too slowly in virtually every area where we have certainly had an ambition to move forward. Furthermore, I also agree with the parts mentioned by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur on how important it is in relation to the incredibly burning platform that there will be a shortage of skilled labour, and indeed there is already a shortage. We're always going to talk about it as if it's future scenarios, and it's just because it gets worse over the years. But there is already a shortage of skilled labour. And if you have any doubts, you have to try to get a craftsman as things are today. And then you can decide for yourself whether you think that the waiting time there may reflect the fact that there is already a shortage of craftsmen. The Enhedslisten has asked me to explain how adult and continuing training will contribute to the green transition and will contribute to the green transition. And that is absolutely central, also in terms of how it will be a central part of the forthcoming second generation reforms and how the government will ensure that there is the necessary provision of adult and continuing training throughout the country. The question is, of course, entirely in line with the debate which began at the conciliation meeting on 13 April, when you should also be thanked for addressing the central issue in committee. A current and relevant supply means that our adult and continuing education deliver on the demand for the existing and new competences that come as our society transforms into more green technology, and fortunately for that. However, I would like to reiterate some of what I said at the conciliation meeting, namely that the climate and sustainability agenda is already a central part of our education system across all education. This also applies to adult and post-secondary education. This does not mean that you should rest on the laurels, but it is just to say that it is a central part of our education system today. Moreover, the institutions and the continuing training committees are also responsible for green transition and climate and sustainability and for ensuring that this is not a scenario for the future, but actually something we have been working on and have been working on for many years and continue to work on. The task of the post-training committees is to reflect the current needs of the labour market, and if there is a new need for competence, for example, because we have to take account of the needs of the labour market. must build climate-friendly houses or cook with several plants, but then it is the continuing training committees that must intercept and translate that demand into concrete amu courses within their respective industries. And I would say that the government is confident that the way to build the system works. It is a huge agile to do so that it is located in that way. Because we can see that new training is constantly being developed with a focus on green conversion, and I would really like to question whether we would be able to run politically as quickly as they do with the construction we have here. Then you can always wish that the pace was even higher, but it's just to make it clear that the construction is actually really good. I do not have the time to mention everything they have done, but I think we should look at some of the things that lie. For in the vast majority of sectors there has also been quite a lot in relation to green conversion. It is everything from the educational area to the industrial area and in terms of construction, agriculture, trade and management. And there are courses on nature and outdoor life and sustainable production and climate adaptation, sustainable construction, forestry and sustainable procurement. And if this is the case for specific continuing training committees, six new training programmes focusing on green conversion have been set up in the territory of the Joint Committee of Industry in 2021 alone. These are sustainable production, renewable energy management, recycled plastics in practice, etc. etc. In the area of construction, there has been a series of new amu courses on sustainability and green conversion, on circular economy and on practical renovations in houses worthy of conservation, on energy optimisation in buildings, on insulation and heat loss, insulation in relation to energy-efficient solutions, etc. etc. The same applies to transport: new courses have also been set up with a focus on driving with alternative energy sources. So it's just to say that we have a system that delivers quite broadly on this agenda in everyday life. It is not something that takes headlines in the newspapers every time a new course is set up. Maybe it should, because it means a lot to our future. But I am actually convinced that the construction that it is in the continuing training committees means that there is not the sluggishness that would exist. Well, I don't know when, in a parliamentary context, we have last managed to do six new courses in one year. It doesn't happen very often, I can say hello. And that's why I think that construction is really good, and I have faith in it is the right way to have built it up. Then the green agenda is also reflected in the pool for the development of teacher training etc. in amu-educations, i.e. what is called the UUL pool, which is a pool for the development of new AMU courses. By 2020, it focused on sustainability and climate adaptation, and about a quarter of the funds were allocated to development activities within that theme, and 10 out of 12 continuing training committees wanted to launch activities and projects that have the green transition as their focal point. That is, for example, the case. for analysis, which will form the basis for the future labour market training of committees for electricians, and how they will contribute to achieving the 70 per cent greenhouse reduction target in the Climate Act. Until 2030. After all, the government has jointly, and the rapporteur also mentioned this, with the parties responsible for the Finance Act, set aside 100 million. kr. This year and a further 100 million. kr. next year to ensure that continuing vocational training is ready for the green transition. If you say it's been too slow to put them into effect, that's one of the things I'm going to give you. It is true that we have been incredibly busy this six months with corona, and if there had not been corona, it would actually have been my bid that we had had that discussion with each other a few months ago. However, we have moved on, I would say, so it is not the case that nothing has happened, and that means that we are closer to being able to take that discussion now. In any case, this allows a considerable boost to be given to support the green transition in vocational education and training, which is why it is a very good agreement that we have made about it. Then, of course, we must not forget, I think, the tripartite agreement on apprenticeships, which has basically paved the way for much more people to become skilled and to be able to acquire the specific competences that arise as society has to adapt itself. It can be said that today we have the huge problem that a great many fall away when they have finished their basic cycle II and in the period leading to their starting their main course, and one of the reasons for this is that they simply do not know what they are going to do, because they do not have a apprenticeship yet, and that is to say, the root of the major apprenticeship reform is to say that you simply need to know this much earlier, and that means that, even when you are in the course of your basic cycle II, you must of course know what you are going to do on your main course. This brings us to the problem of moving the date when we actually have a training agreement, and to assign the responsibility for obtaining apprenticeships to those who are unable to do so themselves, in educational establishments, is, of course, absolutely crucial for those who have to build the green transition, so to speak, because it requires young people who have actually chosen to go on vocational training to implement it, because they have the right learning ground for it. Then you have also asked how the government will ensure that the VEU and green transition will be a key part of the forthcoming second generation reforms and how the necessary VEU procurement will be ensured in all parts of the country. And there I would say that it has been crucial for the government that the adult and continuing education area has been given a prominent place in the Commission's work in relation to second-generation reforms, and exactly as we stand here, it is exactly an hour since the Commission has published its first debate publication, and I am pleased to see that they are precisely focused on adult and continuing education opportunities and the flexibility or lack of the same in relation to lifelong learning. And then, by the way, there's a focus on the rest group. I look forward very much to reading into it, because there is no doubt that today there is a large percentage of people who are still not getting an education, and when we talk about who is going to carry the green transition into the future, it was at least clever whether we looked at where it is a win-win, namely where the young person actually needs an education and where we, as a society, need the extra hands. Well, of course more can be done. Now I've put a lot of emphasis on what's being done. I always think you can run another mile, and I am willing to be inspired by the things that the other parties could bring to the table here today. This is a huge transformation that we are facing, and there is no doubt that the VEU plays a huge role in the green transition. It is not enough to focus on primary and upper secondary education, for everything else just has to be said that the majority of the workforce is not in the middle of a primary school; they are, in fact, finished with it many years ago and should be able to contribute and be able to solve this challenge, and that is why the VEU is absolutely central when we talk about the green transition of Danish society. So I look forward very much to both the debate here today, but of course also to the work that lies ahead of us, both to translate the money we have already agreed, but also to other initiatives in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527110311	Thank you. Now there is the possibility of one brief remark from each of the party's general rapporteurs. And then it's sir. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527110324	Thank you. And thank you for your statement. I noted that the Minister at the outset attached great importance to meeting the demand for adult and continuing training. I do not disagree with that; it is a central task for the continuing training system. But is the Minister not concerned about this if we simply leave the development of our entire adult and continuing training area to demand? I see that there are think tanks and various pension funds that are systematically planning this area. Do we not have a problem if we simply leave it to demand, and in this light, not least in the field of general adult education, because there may be a tendency for demand to focus very narrowly on the specific job competences needed in the individual company, while having an approach that weighs on the general competences that may be necessary to acquire the business-oriented competences will be left in the lurch if it is all running on demand? So should we not have a political plan for how training adapts to the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527110437	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527110438	Yes, I fully share that concern, just as I am concerned about the projections that are being made when we look at the figures, in relation to what kind of workforce we look forward to missing in 2030. Because it would actually be my bid that it might look a little different, because it is presented on the basis of what the composition is today. However, if there is to be a huge green transition, we therefore need a great many more electricians, for example, also proportional to the total workforce. Many other working groups could also be mentioned, but that is just to say, yes, I think we should be careful that it is only demand driven. Because if I thought it should be, I would have said 'no' to the fact that we would have to land some money in the context of a budget law, where we are giving some muscle to something which is not precisely the demand-driven one. So when I put the emphasis on the demand-driven, it is because I believe that it works smoothly and efficiently in terms of changing it with all the education that is being created in the green area and more effectively than we would be able to deliver politically. But that is absolutely not the only thing that needs to be said. I think it is very wise that decisions have been taken that we should use some muscles from in here to get ahead of the wave, so to speak, with the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527110551	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we'll have to clean up. Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527110623	Too many adults on the Danish labour market were left on the platform as young people or had to get off quickly when the training train left. Despite the toasts of ensuring good educational opportunities for everyone, thousands of young people leave the education system without having received a qualification, and many who complete an education experience that, unfortunately, it is rapidly ageing so that they find it difficult to meet the demands of skills that the rapid technological and social development brings with it. This is a problem for the individual and for society. A great gap in education makes us weaker in terms of the development of our welfare and our labour market. For the individual, it not only limits the opportunities for a good and safe working life, but can have far-reaching consequences for living conditions in the broadest sense. Adult and continuing training is at the same time an important focal point for the whole of the green transition. Extensive investments in renewable energy, in sustainable construction and in climate-friendly development of the food area and many other areas require well-trained labour, which has both the skills and motivation to drive the green transition forward. We are talking about what the Minister has just said in his statement... not just a long-term need. It is here and now; the transition is in full swing. The main trade union organisation estimates that we can expect 200,000 new green jobs within a decade, but at the same time FH stresses how crucial it is with active training efforts if we are not to risk bottlenecks that make the transition both more expensive and slower. It is therefore crucial, in the view of the Enhedslisten, that we get the entire adult and continuing training effort up-to-date, both in terms of general adult education and in terms of vocational training, which is aimed at the green job areas. I have noticed when I prepared for today that the think tank CONCITO and the Think Tank Monday Morning are in full swing with the Industry Foundation and PensionDanmark to make a careful analysis of what labour requirements are in the large green job areas • PensionDanmark is involved in the entire management of labour market training in 3F's area and a number of areas of occupation • to get the right match between the expected demand for labour and the training system. We believe in Enhedslisten that, rather than just letting the demand management • I have noticed the Minister's response • we need to draw up a genuine green strategy plan for adult and post-graduate education up to 2030, so that we have a solid basis for a massive public investment both in general adult education and in vocational adult and further education in post-school and amu centres. We need to raise the whole veu area, and we need to have a special focus on the adults who did not receive training when they were young and the many skilled people whose opportunities for employment depend to a large extent on their having good conditions for maintaining and developing their skills on an ongoing basis. Not only do we need to provide more resources to the educational institutions providing general and vocational adult education. We believe that there must be a system of training planning, both in the private and in the public sector, and in the view of the Enhedslisten, we should, as it were, reinvent the old proposals of the trade union movement on paid freedom of education. For many, the economic barrier is a crucial obstacle to education, and we therefore want a marked improvement in the veu allowance and an extension of the possibilities for training rotation. I welcome the announcements that have been made today by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but we therefore believe that there is a need to speed up. The Corona explains many delays, but the challenges of developing our education system to match the demands of the green transition do not wait, even though we are slow. So we're gonna get started. Finally, I will read out a proposal for adoption which I am making on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. It reads as follows: Proposals for adoption In the coming years, when a green transformation of the Danish society is to take place, the adult and continuing education area must play a central role. The green transition will cover all areas of social life and will make great demands on the skills of employees in the vast majority of industries and sectors. It is therefore important to work systematically with the development of the adult and continuing education area, ensuring optimal opportunities for adults to acquire knowledge and skills needed in the green transition of the labour market. At the same time, strengthened adult and continuing training efforts should contribute to creating the greatest possible security in the labour market for adult unskilled workers and the many skilled workers whose opportunities for employment depend to a large extent on their having good conditions for continuing to maintain and develop their skills through adult and continuing training. In this context, it is important that training opportunities are available for both the employed and the unemployed. • V 134).
ParlaMint-DK_20210527111227	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will now be included in the further debate. We have no brief comments, so we thank Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527111247	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for raising the debate. The figures that have already been put forward in the debate, which show that we are going to lack nearly 100,000 skilled workers in 2030 in order to satisfy the needs of the labour market, but, of course, what has already been focused on the fact that we are having a hard time obtaining skilled workers today is an issue that we need to take extremely seriously. We need to discuss how to ensure better training for unskilled and skilled workers, perhaps some of them, as Mr. Jakob Silverhøj also referred to as some of those who have been thrown by the training train early in life and may find it difficult to hop on again because the train is at full speed, or maybe actually is on the train, but want to drive in a slightly different direction because the world is changing and the green transition means more and more. It is clear that we need to ensure that the skilled people we need do something, of course, to ensure that more young people take vocational training, but we also need to discuss and focus on the adults who received very short training in the first place, or perhaps no qualification-giving training at all. There are many reasons why we have to do this. After all, we have discussed on top of corona whether there are bombs under the economy, whether it is difficult to reconcile it, what the prospects are for the Danish economy, how we pay back. I would just like to say that a situation where up to 100,000 skilled people are missing is a bomb under our prosperity in Denmark, under our economy, under our ability to actually maintain the society that we now have. But it is also important for the sake of the green transition, because a great many of them are working on the green transition today, who are skilled or unskilled. There is no doubt that if we do not ensure that we have the electricians to make the energy-saving solutions, the carpenters with a glance at the sustainable materials or the plumbers who have to replace the oil-fired and install heat pumps and much, much else, then of course we will not achieve the goal. It can really be said quite briefly: without skilled people, no climate struggle. Therefore, it is of course extremely interesting to discuss how it affects the green transition. The Employment Council of the Workers' Movement, which has already been mentioned a few times, has also calculated what the right training boost can bring us out of potential economic gains, and it is very, very large billions that we, as a society, risk missing out on if we do not do this. That's why I think it's the words of the Minister of Education... it costs a farm to invest in education, but it costs a kingdom not to. In other words, the fact that we cannot actually afford not to invest in education becomes very, very clear in this area, because if we do not get the job done, we are in fact facing three problems. Of course, we are faced with human problems because those who have the shortest education are those who most often get out of the labour market when there are crises. They are the ones who have the greatest insecurity in their employments, and of course they are also the ones who have the most difficulty in creating a life where they feel that they themselves control development and actually feel that they have an influence on their everyday lives. I have already mentioned the climate and the bomb during the Danish economy. In other words, this is kind of a Kinderæg, and there's a lot to do, but luckily we're doing too. In response to the corona crisis, we have chosen to invest and to provide opportunities for training in some of the areas where we lack labour at an increased rate of unemployment. That's one of the answers. We have already mentioned today the pool we placed on last year's Finance Act, which will help to improve training in relation to the green transition. So we are not in the finish line, but we are well under way, and I am delighted that the Enhedslisten is once again lifting this debate, which will, of course, fill much more, including the coming months, as the corona will hopefully release its roof.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527111657	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527111659	After all, it is difficult to have a real disagreement between Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten in this matter, but when we have brought it up, it is not just to have a good talk about it, but because we think that something more action is actually missing. I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that we in the Enhedslist believe that there would be a good need for a genuine green strategy plan, a national plan to ensure that our entire adult and continuing training system actually matches the competences that we can see there will be demanded over the next 10 years, so that demand does not move the training to such a bite, but that we make an overall planning that we will of course have to adjust along the way. Would it not make sense for us to sit together politically and try to draw up such a comprehensive national strategy plan on how to adapt training to the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527111801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527111803	I very much agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that, of course, we need to look, just like we do, at how we ensure that we actually follow suit. There are, in fact, at least two debates. There is the discussion that, now that we have anchored our vocational training in the professional committees and thus in the customers, the trade union movement and the employers, who have a great deal of influence on what needs to be trained, we must always discuss whether they are looking far enough ahead or whether they are looking only at what is coming shortly. Then Enhedslisten's rapporteur also mentioned earlier that we must, of course, lay a macro framework for this; we also need general competences. We have, of course, made joint efforts in the field of dyslexia and other things. This is not something that is directly motivated by the green transition, but it can be the prerequisite for really getting the training that will be crucial to the green transition. Finally, I believe that we need to discuss the strategy wider than adult and continuing education, because we really need to look at how we get all our education in the green direction and how we ensure that there is coordination, that there is no duplication of effort, but also that there are no gaps that are not closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527111917	Sir. Jakob Silver mound, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527111917-2	Yes, I hope we can talk about more systematic planning. The second question I would like to ask is the whole economic incentive to train. The rapporteur may recall that one of the major battles of the trade union movement ten years ago, especially from the SiD then, now 3F, was to establish a real system of paid freedom for education, because it was to ensure that those who have an economic barrier to education were given much better opportunities for training. Is there not a need for us to look overall at better economic conditions for adult and continuing training?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527111959	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527112000	After all, we must constantly discuss what the barriers are. When we made that agreement, also with other parties, to raise the daily allowance rate in response to the fact that some people had fallen into unemployment, and because we needed them elsewhere, and if we can say so, to attract some people to training at increased rates of unemployment, then it is of course because we recognise that in some situations it is also the economy that is crucial. In other situations, these are some other barriers. It may be a resistance to sitting on the school bench. Perhaps we also sometimes have a challenge with employers being too bad to tell you that if you as an employee also have to keep your job in 5 years' time, you must have further training along the way. So we have to look at all the barriers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527112043	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Stén Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527112059	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Enhedslisten, who is raising this very relevant question, and also to the Minister and the rapporteurs, who have spoken here in the Chair about how we can get there in this area. Perhaps I miss some discussions about the unemployed, and perhaps I also lack some input. After all, we can do something on the part of the Danish Parliament, and we can do something on the part of the institutions, but we also have the whole of the municipal section, which can do quite a lot in terms of creating a good framework for education, and it is at least some discussions that we must remember to get into what is going on. However, in line with green and digital development, we are faced with a labour market that is transformed with jobs that disappear and new jobs that come, and some developments and new industries and new jobs are very well on the way, and it is actually very well going out there, and other industries we have not seen as yet because some jobs are being created in the future, of which we have not yet seen the contours. For many years, it was feared that jobs would be lost as a result of automation and technological development, but that development seems to have gone the other way, and our fears have been put to shame. And here we can be proud of our companies, who are and have helped to be adaptable, innovative and flexible in most places in the country and in most municipalities, and I will just come back to that. The fact that the Danish companies stand well in the global economy and the green and digital development is also very much the profits of the companies, so is the job creation, and the Danish companies are well prepared for the future. Denmark has a leading position that we would rather not lose, and right now, as several rapporteurs have also said, there is a potential challenge because it seems that we are going to be lacking and we are already lacking skilled labour. We have an acute mishmask between what Danish workers can and what they should be able to do in the future. Studies have been carried out from many sides that show that by 2030 we will be missing between 50,000 and 100,000 extra employees to do these green jobs, and that is why we must, of course, try to prepare for a future that will come, but which we do not quite know yet for good reasons. Many of these jobs will require skilled and unskilled workers who are well dressed to meet the needs of the future labour market, a skilled workforce equipped for an unknown future where we cannot yet imagine all that we have to do in the future. And now I come back to the fact that in some places you were really good at the transformation that used to be in relation to automation and technology. But 20-25 years ago, when a lot of manufacturing companies moved out of the country, and we got a lot of unskilled people in the queue at the job center, there were also some places in the country where we were not skilled enough to transform as quickly as it had to go, among other things. in Slagelse, where I come from, and which we are still suffering from. We had a liquorice factory, we had some abattoirs, we had some manufacturing companies, and a lot of these companies had unskilled workers, because you could come straight in from the 9th grade and stand by the tape, if I may put it that way. This meant that some municipalities had very many unskilled unemployed people who had to be re-educated, and in some places they were not very good at that, and we must also bring that discussion into the excellent work that we have ahead of us. So we know the challenge of the conversion of green jobs. So we see in the Left, at least, that there are two inherent tasks, that is, a transition to green jobs, and that this must also be possible throughout Denmark, and that is why we must be focused on education and further training and the upgrading of the workforce of the future. This has been mentioned by both the Minister and the rapporteurs here, and we must have educational opportunities throughout Denmark to ensure that the qualification is always up-to-date and adapted to the needs that are now, also locally. The Left has continuously helped to strengthen the whole field of adult and continuing training, including: last year, when we helped to reach an agreement on the upgrading of labour, and we must also bring a greater incentive for workers to develop further. We are pleased with the agreements we have been involved in making, and we are happy to take responsibility, which is why we in the Left always make ourselves available to find solutions to the challenges that we are looking into here and that we are going to see in the context of the green transition, including the prediction that we need labour and that the transition should be possible throughout Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527112608	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see that there is a desire for short remarks, which is why we thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527112632	Thank you, President. It is an unfamiliar pleasure for me to be allowed to sit and listen to this debate. I am not on the committee in question, and I am here on behalf of my colleague Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, but it is beyond doubt that this is an extremely important question, and that is why it is nice, when you are used to sitting and grumbling with energy regulation and culture, to be allowed to have this world revealed to you too. My good colleague, however, has prepared a few words which I would like to make on his behalf. Education is important, we need an education system that can train at all levels and throughout our lives. As a society, we need a well-educated population and there are still too many people who never get an education. In the Danish People's Party, we want educational opportunities throughout Denmark. In this way, we want to ensure a more equal Denmark without the great differences between the country and the city that are emerging today. There are many people who want training but who do not want to go to the big city, and we would also like there to be skilled labour for companies that are spread across the whole country, and if you are trained in the local area, you are much more likely to stay in the local area. In relation to the subject of today's question, this becomes extremely relevant. For many unskilled people, education and education are associated with something negative, with discomfort. It is therefore a particular challenge to create a framework for the training of unskilled workers. It is not enough to have the opportunity, but the offer must also be available so that you go. Therefore, the challenge here is not only to provide education but also to ensure that they are in the community. Yes, perhaps they should even take place in companies where the unskilled are employed. In general, however, in the field of education and thus also in relation to the training and further training of unskilled and skilled workers, we in the Danish People's Party believe that the prerequisite for creating relevant educational environments is that they are created in cooperation between municipalities, local public and private employers and educational institutions. Fortunately, we can see that there is a movement in which many municipalities are actively working to create the right framework for such local training campuses, and here there is a political task in supporting the initiatives and creating the right framework. We must give municipalities the opportunity to work with the framework, and we must provide educational institutions with the right opportunities and incentives both in relation to taximeter reform and to education legislation that supports the involvement of educational institutions in local cooperation. That is why we are looking forward to the Commission's recommendations for reform in this area. It is important that action is taken. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527112939	Thank you. There is no brief comment to Mr. Mr Morten Messerschmidt, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527112954	The challenge is clear to everyone. With various calculations, now most recently with the calculations from AE, there is no one who can avoid taking a position. In the future, more skilled workers will be needed and we will have a significant surplus of unskilled workers. So I wonder what the solution is? Yeah, that's education. In recent years, a number of agreements have also been concluded on upgrading and continuing training, including the agreement of 17 June, which included, among other things, the establishment of a European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, the European Foundation for the SF thinks that the amount is somewhat low set, but we have here an experience that a movement has been set in motion. In addition to the agreement of June, several agreements and, in particular, the 2021 Finance Act, have focused strongly and absolutely on upskilling, as well as negotiations on a package for the long-term unemployed in these days, where we will also be focusing on upskilling. But there is a long way to go before political action matches the real need for upgrading. We're still at the foot of the mountain. Adult, continuing training throughout life is one of the major challenges. The task is great, but here are some of the answers to how we maintain a dynamic and flexible labour market and how working life is organized so that we have a chance to hold up to retirement age. We must continue along the same lines, and I think there should be more opportunities for academy and diploma education at a number of educational institutions, and the Amu courses should not only include unskilled and skilled. More education for all is absolutely necessary for a strong society. It is good for the individual who gets more opportunities when it comes to choosing a job and the chance of a better salary; it is good for the competitiveness of companies when they have qualified and flexible employees; and it is good for society with a better educated population and strong companies. We must lure and tempt people of all ages so that they have the skills sought in the changing labour market. It is an investment that Denmark gets smarter and faster. But there must also be room in new and other ways for you to learn in many ways, where practical work can fill a greater part of the training and where you still maintain contact with your business so that you do not have to go directly to a real educational establishment all the time. After all, the Industrial Council of the Workers' Movement has calculated three different plans for the green transition. The three plans are drawn up by 3F, the main trade union organization and IDA, each of which has given their views on how the transition can look. It is clearly concluded that the green transition creates jobs. The three plans are different and do not require the same amount of labour, but they also point out that the green transition provides more and not fewer jobs. Specifically, the plans estimate that the conversion will create between 200,000 and 400 000 years' work. The green conversion will draw on skilled workers in particular. There is significant job creation in all groups, but in all the plans there is a very high rate of job growth among skilled workers. Here, according to the three plans, somewhere between 115,000 and 191,000 years of work are created. That is, for example, the case. electricians to set up barnstands, carpenters, glarms and plumbers to renovate homes and wind turbine operators for wind turbine production. That is why it is obvious that it will cause major problems and will have major consequences for society if we do not create the opportunity for more people to take vocational training. The June Training Agreement and the funding provided in the Finance Act are clearly a step in the right direction, but I believe that more needs to be done. One of the proposals is to develop a green forecasting tool. The idea is to be able to assess the types of training for which unemployed people and which skills will be needed. I believe that we need to remove even more of the bureaucracy in relation to the adult apprenticeship scheme. I think it is a very good idea for us to remove the requirement for 3 months of unemployment for skilled workers in order to use the scheme. We need to extend the right from 6 to 32 weeks of job-oriented training so that more people can get an education at academy and diploma level. We also believe that the right should apply to the unemployed with a short or medium-term education. I think raising the svu rate from 60%. 100 per cent. I think it is a good thing that we should be able to get things moving, and then we believe very much that the job rotation can help to create a place for businesses. Some come into education and others get into work. The last thing must be that more use of rehabilitation in the municipalities can also get more people going with education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527113511	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527113512	Thank you to the rapporteur. I know that the rapporteur, because of his previous employment, knows about vocational training and continuing training and perhaps also the slowness that sometimes exists. It would be wrong for the open screen to say that the professional committees are not doing well and that the continuing training committees are not doing well, but there may be a tendency to take a very natural look at the subjects now in the world to take care of and plan, while there may be a tendency to create a more general view of what is needed as a whole is not a task that the professional committees can solve. I think it sounds exciting with a tool for green forecasts, so I would really just like to hear as the only question: Will the SF not join with Enhedslisten in pushing the government and the Minister for Children and Education so that we can sit around the table and discuss together how we can act politically, so that we support the complicated planning process that is necessary in order to match the needs of the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527113620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527113621	Yes, sir, I can only confirm that. Jakob Silverhøj's experience that there is a certain inertia in the professional committees. I myself have dragged away several years as a member of those committees, and there is a traditional thinking that needs to be challenged. That's right. On the other hand, I also believe, as the situation now stands, that there has been a great deal of openness towards perhaps not going in like this and touching so much on the content of real basic vocational training, but then looking at it in a new way and learning in new ways. A number of attempts have also been made to strengthen the links between continuing training and the individual company, and this can be done among other things. be through job rotation, but actually also in other ways. We have also been in the somewhat strange situation for several years now that we all recognise the need for more skilled workers and yet the amu system has been imploding and almost disappearing from large areas of the country. It's a grotesque situation to stand in. I would always like to join the Enhedslisten in giving a helping hand to the government. They often need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527113723	Thank you for that, there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Vinther of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527113736	The society in which my children grow up and have to live very little resembles the society in which I grew up and, even less so, the society that my parents took over from their parents. In my father's grocery store there were workers and craftsmen whose functions today are most suitable for storytelling. There was the well excavator, and there was the ropemaker, and at the local machinery factory there was still a need for blacksmiths, but they had to improve their skills in relation to new technology that pushed out manual production. It pressed the unskilled, who had to be trained blacksmiths to deal with the increasing demands for precision and quality. And the engineers also kept in touch because the complexity grew and required new skills. In this way, the whole subject will arise, disappear and change, and thus tasks for both skilled and unskilled workers, yes, all types of training and occupations, and it is a process which continues and which today also demands of us. For that reason alone, Enhedslisten's query is forever topical. What then makes it particularly topical is that we are facing a similar change as that faced by the well excavator, the ropemaker and the blacksmiths, namely the need for green change, green conversion. More than ever, we need the opportunity throughout our lives to equip ourselves for our own sake, but also to ensure that companies can recruit the employees they need and have the necessary skills to drive Denmark forward, not least in relation to the green transition. This requires reform of our education sector so that everyone gets a school that they can use for something. Today, too many people end up without a primary education, we can be familiar, and 20%. Of the 25-year-olds today, there is no youth education. We must also ensure that companies have a good record of investing in the development and conversion that we want, and then it requires us to become world champions in ensuring that those who are already in the labour market are given competence. I, like the Minister, have also noted that this has already been noted by the Reform Commission. They call the offer of continuing training incalculable. Therefore, the Radical Left has proposed that all Danes get an education account that can work according to the same principle that many of us know from the holiday account. In this way, you save up as you work, and the funds can then be spent on education so that you can keep your salary while you are doing your job. This is, moreover, fully in line with the recommendations made by the Group of Experts on Adult and Continuing Training in 2017, when they recommended that there should be a right to further training and a personal education account. In this way, there is both opportunity and incentive for the individual, and companies are ensured that employees are constantly able to take on the tasks that are already there and are constantly coming to do, but also the tasks that we do not yet know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114015	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114018	I would like to ask you about the part about general adult education. There is a tendency, because precisely this area is so demand-driven that one often forgets how important general competences are as a prerequisite for also taking vocational training. Last year's Finance Act, not least in a Community between the Radicals and Enhedslisten, succeeded in allocating a greater amount of money to youth education. Unfortunately, we failed to get a corresponding boost to general adult education, to hf single subjects, to dyslexic education or to preparatory adult education. So I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Radicals, together with the Enhedslisten, will help to tell the government that it is simply necessary that the boost we received from youth education in last year's Finance Act should now also be passed on to adult education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114126	I deliberately did not bring the chequebook today, because I thought the question would come. But it is clear that there has to be a look at how we get the adult people out of school without having the basic skills to be able to engage in the labour market that we see developing. It could be part of the solution to look at the training courses in the field of adult and continuing training. First of all, however, we need to ensure that the children who become young people and have to go on training afterwards and have to enter the labour market have the skills they need. But yes, we give a positive commitment to enter into a dialogue on how we can also lift that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114200	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, so the next person to speak is the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114217	Thank you. It can be said that now the text of adoption which was read out earlier by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur reflects the fact that there is a very broad consensus that something needs to be done in this area. Nevertheless, I think there is good reason to thank you for your attention in the field of adult and continuing training. This is not the area that takes the most headlines in the newspapers, and it is actually surprising, because there is not much that matters to our future economy as much as the educational foundation that our industry has to put up with. That is why there is good reason why, since we cannot get as many headlines about what some of us might want, we should then have the debate in this Chamber and, incidentally, also in consultation and the like. In any case, it should not be forgotten that we are currently (1) lacking skilled labour, that we 2) are going to be missing even more, and that we 3) are going to need very much skilled labour to carry out the green transition. So for all these reasons, there is good reason to get light on this issue, and we must of course create the best possible framework for both unskilled and skilled people in terms of being able to move forward with this process. There must also be no doubt that more skilled people are a constant focus of government, and that is why it is absolutely right, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur began by saying that we have already taken some very good steps, but that this is an area that must also have a lasting look, because it is so crucial, both for society and for the green transition. It is therefore also important that we create good conditions all around the system, whether we are talking about young people in relation to taking vocational training or whether we are talking about adults who either did not get paid to the education account at all as young people or who have vocational training, but who may need some extra training in order to be able to do the new things that need to be done in connection with the green transition. I am, of course, very pleased that there is agreement on the text of the adoption, and I look forward to seeing, together with the parties to the agreement behind the Finance Act, how we translate the considerable millions of dollars that have been set aside there. So I look forward to it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114438	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114440	When you go in and look at the statistics on labour market education in the decade from 2008 to 2018, you can see that there has been a halving in the number of trainees • at least unique trainees on labour market education. This is a completely disastrous development for me. And we have also seen how the Corona crisis has affected the region even further, also because it happens in the particular situation that it is very much based on the demand of companies which, in the present situation, have not actually needed training for the labour force. Has the Minister given any particular thought as to what we can do in relation to labour market training, in view of the fact that there has been a halving of activity over a 10-year period?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114537	I remember that ten years ago we could have had the same debate down here, that is to say, in the sense that at that time too we were concerned about the fact that there was too large a group which did not receive continuing training, particularly the group which Mr. Jakob Silverhøj also mentioned from up here there was also the situation at the time that the shorter education you already had, the less you tended to actually take some adult and further education. The concern that I also had ten years ago does not get any better from the fact that the figures look the same as they do, and therefore I simply think that there is a good reason why we should give it a proper overshadow when it comes to developing in this area. So I look forward to that, and with the interest in it in the Folketing, there is, in fact, a good basis for us to get the country some good agreements on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114623	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114624	There must be tripartite negotiations later this year on the whole area of veu, so in view of the difficult situation in relation to labour market training, I would like to ask the Minister whether it was not a good idea to invite some of the key partners, in other words both the social partners and the schools, together with the education and training rapporteurs, to discuss jointly how to see the development opportunities for labour market training so that we can ensure that there is the best possible basis for tripartite negotiations in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114659	It's bought. In fact, I think that is an incredibly good idea, because it is very often the parties that each meet with the respective parties, and fortunately people spend a great deal of gunpowder on it in here. But I really think that we are very well served by meeting together, in other words, where all the parties meet together with the parties we are talking about. So I would like to take the initiative after the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114726	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114727	Thank you and thank the Minister for the answers here. As a follow-up to some of the last things that Jakob Sølvhøj and the Minister are talking about here about the respective parties: as I mentioned in my speech, I actually thought that the municipalities would like to play on this agenda for many reasons, of course. Therefore, it must also be a call for KL or some from the municipalities to be considered in the conversation about how we help to switch to the green growth that is coming. Can the Minister not also give it a few words along the way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114802	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114804	Well, I can do that. KL and Danske Regions are two of the major employers in Denmark. So when I talk about the parties in this context, it always involves the public employers, and therefore they will naturally be present both around that table if we invite in the context that Mr. Jakob Silverhøj adds up, but of course also in connection with looking at the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114823	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And then Mrs Mette Thiesen's rapporteur did not just get on in the first round, which means that it is in the second round that Mrs Thiesen is given the floor, and that means that the speaking time is only three minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527114843	Thank you so much. It tricked me a little that a few rapporteurs were just missing before me. I'm sorry about that. You have to keep your curiosity all your life. One must believe that one always has something to offer, and one must dare to change track, dare to embark on a new life course and perhaps a new education and then a new job. It's important. In New Citizens, we generally believe that we must have a fight with decades of education snobbery... a movement that has led most young people to choose the high school route rather than, for example, the high school route. Vocational training, a movement that straightens out instead of supporting that everyone is different and can do something different. You've probably heard me talk about them a lot before, those boys, mostly, those sitting in the back row of the class, those who have gunpowder in the back and who are bored, but who shine when they need their hands. These are the wise hands that, in my opinion, have not been made enough room in the current education system. That is why I am very much in favour of master's education, so that you can get into a company already in school and, for example, at the same time. take the most basic subjects such as Danish and mathematics. That's what we need. A while ago I met a former student when I was down shopping. Apparently, I've grown up so old that my former students have grown up. He was having a hard time at school back then. He was in trouble, he wasn't following me. He's one of those people I remember very clearly. I had a slightly soft spot for him from the start, I must be honest with you, because he was one of the students who needed a little extra. Then I went on maternity leave, and the class got another teacher. But then I met him there that day at the supermarket. He had become a craftsman, and as I remember it even self-contained. He was happy. There was something he was really good at. He had grown, for this, he could. I walked away with a tremendous relief and joy, because they get under the skin of one, those students. I guess I'd really been a little worried about this guy. You should know as a young person that you learn, you take a vocational training course, you use your hands, you can always change tracks later in life. Unfortunately, there are too few young people who know that, and that makes sure that there are quite a few out there in the classrooms who think that they are going to high school, even if they would be able to go another way. And we need them, the smart hands. We need the skilled. We also need both the skilled and the unskilled to be able to continue and retrain, and we need to recognise that everyone is different and can be different, that it is important that we do not standardise, but that far more people can be allowed to go the right way for them exactly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527115146	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. That concludes the question. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday, 1 June 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527115207	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527115234	Thank you, President. Today we are going to deal first with motion for a resolution B 286 from the Left. The motion for a resolution instructs the government in this Assembly to carry out an inter-ministerial analysis of the need for legislative and regulatory changes in order to increase the level of recycling and improve the management of the safety risks associated with the handling, transport, repair and storage of electric and hybrid vehicles and to increase the recycling rate of these... that was a strange clicking sound in the speaker; it may be that it is static electricity • it cannot be rejected. But it was just to reproduce what the proposal is about. And then I will move on to the government's position. First of all, I would like to agree with the general objective set out in the motion for a resolution. We need to secure 1 million green cars on the roads by 2030. If there is legislation to prevent this, we must, of course, look at it. Following a dialogue with the authorities involved in this analysis, and this also concerns authorities outside the Ministry of Transport's area of responsibility, so it has been a bit of a task to have it examined, however, I can see that the issues raised in the motion for a resolution are areas of which there is already more recent regulation or where regulation is international and where negotiations and procedures are already under way for updating the rules in this area. And let me try to run through some of these elements. For example: the Ministry of the Environment informed me that on 10 December 2020 the European Commission submitted a proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on batteries and waste batteries. This Regulation aims to support the establishment of a European value chain for batteries and, in the long term, to achieve circularity in the production, use and waste management of batteries. The proposal covers all batteries and electric car batteries are defined as a separate category. In view of the fact that there are negotiations on rules for electric car batteries in a new EU regulation which takes account of a number of the issues covered by the resolution, it would not be appropriate to start an analysis of the need for legislative and regulatory changes in this area at this stage, in other words in Denmark alone. I should also like to point out that, as far as my own area is concerned, I am concerned, among other things. transport of dangerous goods, transport safety conditions and driving regulations for the new types of vehicles entering the market, e.g.: hybrid and electric vehicles, that the Danish Road Safety Authority points out that road transport of dangerous goods is regulated internationally by the ADR provision and that the provisions are constantly reviewed and revised taking into account technological developments and safety opportunities. This work results in a new version of the ADR every two years. Denmark participates actively in the four annual meetings and here has the opportunity to participate in the discussions and influence the provisions... forgive me for stopping, President, but is there a problem with the speakers? It seems distracting, and I do not know if it is also distracting in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527115615	I don't know where that sound comes from, but it sounds like it's coming from the speakers. Let's see if we can get this checked out. It is also more if it bothers anyone). Yeah. The rapporteurs must let us know if it disturbs the debate, but otherwise we will continue if the Minister does not feel disturbed by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527115638	No, no, as an old soundman, I just always get worried when something cracks in the speakers. Okay, I'll keep going. As regards vehicle safety rules, the Danish Trade Authority notes that motor vehicles are generally subject to strict safety requirements as part of EU type-approval, which ensure the correct functioning of, inter alia, the electrical components of the cars. In connection with the increased electrification of cars, such as: In the case of hybrid vehicles where an electric motor can assist the conventional internal combustion engine and thereby provide partial electric propulsion, a comprehensive international regulatory framework has been drawn up which is what is known as Regulation No. 100 • which makes special demands on the electrical safety of hybrid cars and electric cars. This set of rules forms part of the EU type-approval of electric cars and hybrid vehicles and is under constant review and is therefore continuously adapted to technical progress. The regulation also contains requirements for electrical safety after the vehicle has been subjected to a collision test, in order to ensure, inter alia, that: fire and rescue after an accident. Finally, I would like to point out that several parts of the proposed analysis are already under the auspices of an inter-ministerial working group chaired by the Emergency Management Board, to which the motion for a resolution also refers. This is, of course, quite relevant, but as I said, it is a work that is still going on, looking at how rescue services and preparedness are going to work with this area. To conclude, I have a great deal of sympathy for the purpose of the motion for a resolution, but in view of the fact that the issues raised in the motion for a resolution are areas on which there is either more recent regulation or where regulation is international and where there is also work and negotiation and procedures in relation to updating the rules, and that the inter-ministerial work has already been initiated in the field of preparedness, the government cannot support the proposal, regardless of how sympathetic it is. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527115852	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. The first rapporteur after the Minister is Mr. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527115919	Thank you. As part of the green transition to road transport, the spread of electric cars, which use batteries, will increase significantly in the coming years. And with it also comes naturally that we have to decide what to do in relation to, for example, ensuring that batteries are more recycled and handled and disposed of correctly, both for reasons of climate, but also in relation to safety, when electric cars are involved in accidents and the battery breaks into fire. This is what this motion for a resolution is about. The proposers will require the government to initiate an interdisciplinary analysis of the need for legislative and regulatory changes in the current parliamentary year with a view to increasing the recycling rate and improving the management of the safety risks associated with the handling, transport, repair and storage of electric and hybrid vehicles. I have great understanding and sympathy for the intention behind the resolution and if there are any challenges that currently exist. If we have not been taken care of, we shall, of course, look into it. Having said that, I also hear that the Minister has obtained information from various authorities working with it, and also from the Ministry of Transport, and neither the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Industry nor the Ministry of Transport considers that there is a need to initiate an analysis, as there is already regulation or work in progress on updating the rules in this area both nationally and internationally, and there is already an in-service work in progress within the Danish Emergency Management Authority, to which the proposal also refers. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I welcome it from the Enhedslisten, which cannot support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120057	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120101	Thank you very much. A quick question here is, do you not also have to look at it nationally in order, like, to speed up the process? In 2011, 14,000 electric cars and 18,000 charging hybrids were sold in Denmark. And just as long as there have been cars on the roads, for as long as there have been accidents. We have a challenge with it in Denmark, compared to if, as an environmental and recycling centre or as an auto store, you bring in an electric car that is damaged, because in principle, because of the insurance, you cannot keep the car indoors because the battery can burn. And if the battery is damaged, you can't store it at all, because you can't keep it outdoors, either. So I am just standing here with the feeling that what the government is up to here is simply not going fast enough. So the rapporteur does not see that we need a certain speed in this as in now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120207	After all, we all know that there are countries which are much further ahead in this area than we are in the area of the distribution of electric cars and hybrid cars. We can just check on Norway, where they're way ahead of us. And that is why I am also informed that information is being obtained and that knowledge is being drawn from the countries that are ahead of us so that it is incorporated, even when we raise the questions here in Denmark. However, I think that we could perhaps follow up and the rapporteur could follow up a written question to the Minister for Transport so that we can clarify whether there are any gaps, that is, some things that we have not got into the work that is going on. And if there is not, the Social Democrats will, of course, be open to this being something that we can integrate into the work already under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120254	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120256	Well, thank you to the rapporteur. We'll do that from here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120305	Yeah, we'll pass that on to the Minister of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120306	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120311	Thank you for that, and thank you for the nice reduction in the intention of the proposal. Those who bother with these things on a daily basis, Danish auto-cutters, have been waiting for very, very many years to know how to deal with these batteries. This means that all batteries are exported to the country, where we have no control over the environmental impact or how they are recycled, and that means that we are missing out on Danish jobs. They have heard nothing from the Danish authorities about how to deal with this, or about what work is going on, even though there have been electric cars on the roads for very, very many years. Since there is no dialogue at all with those involved, can the Minister not follow that we are some who, having been in dialogue with those involved, feel that there is a need to look at it across ministries? Isn't there a need for them to get something they can comply with? What the Minister is referring to may take many years, that is, before there is anything. Well, how many years do we have to go where we can't handle these batteries responsibly before the government will do anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120418	Now I am speaking as rapporteur and not as minister here. I mean, what I'm informed about is also what I'm in my hand here... is the theme book that the Emergency Board has sent out. It is acting, for example. on the situation where there is a fire in electric and hybrid vehicles. So there's some material there. And if it is the case that there are some actors out there who are working on this and who do not have the necessary knowledge of what rules you have to follow, then I think there is work for us there. I think we should follow up on this, too, in relation to whether something more can be done to spread the knowledge there is. In addition, this is something that is being worked on at EU regulation level, and it was in December 2020 that something started to be submitted for consultation. That is why I want to say that we know it takes a little time, but it is also because this is very complex and because you have to bring a lot of different players into it. So I am also informed that Denmark is actively participating in this work, so that we get all our issues addressed there. However, in relation to the specific and current situation, I think we should make an effort to make things better if that is not the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120517	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120520	I'm a little puzzled about the way you're doing things in the garage when you're dealing with these batteries. In other words, it is not down to the level of detail at which the European Union can work, in terms of how to take a concrete stance in the workshop in relation to the handling of liquids and other things. There we have our own rules in Denmark on how to handle it in the workshop. There I find it strange to refer to an overall debate in the European Union on some general issues. In other words, there is a need to find out what needs to be done at a low-practical level, so that when someone comes out and controls you do not get a proper fine as an auto-chopper. Isn't that necessary? Or can the EU retail manage how to design a Danish workshop?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120604	I'm not gonna be able to say that. I think we should take an active part in international cooperation. In this area there is what is called the ADR Convention, and if anything is dangerous, it is regulated below in relation to road transport. In relation to the question of what degrees of freedom we have in Denmark to go in and regulate, I would say: let us get rid of ministerial issues so that we can have a clear understanding of whether there are some things that we need to do better in terms of spreading knowledge about what regulation is in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120635	Thank you. Then the Minister has asked for the floor, and that is possible in the course of the debate. The minister has up to 3 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527120657	It is simply for the sake of good order, since I first reviewed the government's position on this, and there it is usually the case that if there are questions to the Minister, they are asked there. There were no questions, and that has subsequently arisen in the debate. Therefore, and for the sake of good order, I would just like to point out that, as I mentioned in my introductory speech, there is indeed a working group under the direction of the Emergency Management Board. Their specific focus areas here in 2021, I think, could be useful just to outline on the basis of the questions put to the Socialist rapporteur. It is the case that they have three focus areas here in 2021. It is the regulation of larger editions of lithium-ion batteries, working with a splitting of new batteries, used batteries and ESS, energy storage systems. The second is the safety of harassed electric vehicles based on the handling of the various actors from accidentally to scraping; that was also one of the questions asked. And then there are special conditions in parking garages and parking facilities that you also work with. This concrete work was started in these three focus areas at the end of April this year, and work is being done on collecting the main points, which are being handed over for the continuation of the work. In addition, a process has been initiated in the Danish Emergency Agency to develop the thematic booklet published in March 2021, as the Social Democratic rapporteur also mentioned, with additional intervention tactics for the liberation and rescue of people in damaged electric and hybrid vehicles. This is a description of the matters discussed at last year's meetings. To this end, the Danish Emergency Management Authority has also prepared a description of the role of the Authority in relation to particularly relevant challenges. It has to be said, for the sake of good order, that this work, which is thus led by the Danish Emergency Agency, is not under my authority, but there is also a participation in the Agency with their knowledge and competences. So this is something where we are working on the concrete coinage, and it has to be said that this is a work which I do not think can be completed this year either, because there are constantly new models, many new electric car models, on the market, but also an ongoing update of international regulation in this area. It is just to say that I fully recognise that there are challenges, also concrete challenges in workshops and elsewhere in relation to how to deal with this, and the authorities are working to clarify this. And since the resolution here is that the government should start work to clarify these things, what I am just pointing out is that this work is under way. So it is not in any way to be polemical or dismissive. I think it makes a great deal of sense to raise the concerns raised here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527121005	Thank you. This gave rise to a brief comment. Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527121008	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for just taking the floor. I had just misunderstood the order. It's just a question for the Minister. Danish carjackers, as this is all about, who are supposed to handle these electric cars, still don't know so many years after the first electric cars really started coming to Denmark, how to deal with this. They have not been able to enter into dialogue with any authorities; they have never heard from any authorities that there are rules on the way. So they have not been contacted, they are about to have a dialogue about what they really need to do to feel that they can bid instead of having to send all the cars to, for example. Poland. Can the Minister not then acknowledge that what we are asking for here, namely that one more round of things is being looked at, may be relevant? Does the Minister not find it strange at a time when so many electric cars are being sold that those involved have not heard from any Danish authorities and cannot enter into dialogue with them? And would the Minister not acknowledge that it might be wise to vote in favour of this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527121102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527121103	If it was the case that there was no work going on, one could of course talk about taking initiatives, but the work is Sometimes one uses the expression to run in an open door; here I think we are talking about that it is an eight-track highway that just stands pistols. We are only interested in one thing in the government, and that is to clarify these things, which is why it is very good that the work is in progress. The specific example mentioned by the rapporteur here, I shall pass on to the Danish Trade Administration: that there would appear to be a problem in terms of involving actors. If there is such a problem, and especially since April we have been working on this specific handling of scrapage, and if there has not been a dialogue with the actors, then we have to make sure that there is, because I can only imagine that those who work with it in practice will also have some good contributions to the work of the Emergency Management Authority. So I'll pass on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527121204	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527121209	When, then, does the Minister expect there to be some guidelines, these car-wrestlers, who are very frustrated about the situation, can relate to them, and when does the Minister expect them to be informed that there is work going on? Because nobody in the business knows.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527121222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527121223	I am also surprised that it is not known that there is such a cross-cutting work, among other things. because earlier this year a special booklet was published which summarises knowledge about how to handle electric cars in connection with accidents and other matters. It is, in fact, a rather thorough paper from the Emergency Management Board, which I will ensure will be sent to the committee so that it is also given as background information in relation to this motion for a resolution, because it is quite relevant to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527121257	Thank you, Minister. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the authors of the motion for a resolution, who has chosen to divide up his speaking time, or else, as rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, he always ends, but he has the opportunity to divide up his speaking time. Here you go, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527121317	Thank you for the floor. Climate change already has a negative impact on us, and it is important that we reverse developments. It requires that we act. In the left we want the green transition. We have an ambition to have a million green cars on the roads by 2030. In order for this to be achieved, we must already begin a comprehensive transformation of our society. Whether you support that objective or not, this development with a lot of new electric cars and a lot of new initiatives requires regulation to follow. If we look at the specific issue we are discussing today, namely the handling of electric and hybrid vehicles, which are increasingly widespread, there are huge challenges in terms of how they are to be handled, and this is especially true of batteries when cars are to be recycled or damaged. Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen and I had a visit earlier this year from the Danish Autogenbrug trade association, which is an industry organisation for the Danish autohuskers. In this connection, I would also like to acknowledge Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen for sparring in connection with the drafting of this motion for a resolution. They could tell us that they are facing a huge challenge with the fact that, after all those years after the electric cars were introduced in Denmark, they still lack guidelines and legislation and sufficient knowledge in the area of how to safely dispose of and recycle electric car batteries in particular. So they have a challenge with that, and there is no dialogue with the authorities, and responsibility is being pushed back and forth. Right now they tell us that electric car batteries are being exported abroad when they have to be destroyed, because we are not able to destroy them safely here in Denmark because guidelines are lacking. We know that exports are polluting and exports are not good for the circular economy or the recycling rate. In addition, electric car batteries pose a safety risk in the form of a fire hazard that challenges our preparedness, which also demands knowledge and guidance. The Left therefore sees a need for us to work with the area, so that we have the necessary legislative and regulatory changes that aim to improve the handling of electric car batteries, so that auto mechanics and our preparedness can handle the electric cars safely, and so that we in Denmark can handle the recycling of electric cars for the benefit of the environment, the climate and Danish jobs and the circular economy. It is urgent because more and more cars are coming and we are coming behind in relation to our neighbouring countries in terms of building up knowledge in this area because we simply have an industry that cannot move forward. That is why we have proposed requiring the government to initiate an inter-ministerial analysis of the need for legislative and regulatory changes in order to increase the level of recycling and to improve the management of the safety risks associated with the handling, transport, repair and storage of electric and hybrid car batteries. Some of this work is seemingly and fortunately underway, but I also think that the dialogue with the trade association that I had just yesterday shows that there is a need for you to come all the way around this and get a deadline, so we'll soon get over the ramp with some new rules and instructions for this industry. That is why, of course, we hope that a broad majority will be able to support this motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527121635	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. If sir... Christoffer Aagaard Melson just wants to blow off, so we are ready for the next rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527121702	Thank you. You can start by noting that dear child has many names. This is something we see in Denmark in connection with many different things. In the old days, when I was a little boy, it was called a dump. Others today call it an environmental depot. But what is the difference between an environmental depot and a landfill? It's still gone residues that, for example, are buried. It may not have much to do with this specific discussion about the enforcement of the sorting of waste hydrogen or hybrid vehicles, but it has something to do with showing due care, including in relation to the environment. I noticed that the Social Democrats' rapporteur, Mr. Thomas Jensen, used the words that it is a perfectly natural preparation to ensure proper handling of these electric batteries from cars, for example, which are going to be very many in the years to come and which have run on electricity or hydrogen or are hybrid etc. You can then just make a connection to the way we've handled the wind turbine industry. That is where we come up with a little bit about the environmental zones. For there you have had the same king's idea, that is to say you would be on safe ground in order to ensure proper handling of the residues when a windmill after 30-40 years of operation was earned. Yeah, well, not only should it be thrown out, it should be recycled, and then it should also be source sorted and everything else. But after so many years of trying to do it correctly, we can see that there has by no means been settled. In other words, last year alone it was suggested that Lolland was digging 250 tonnes of windmill parts into the Danish soil, because you didn't really know what to do with them. This is the way to handle wind turbine wings in Denmark. Then they'll just be buried on Lolland. Is this the same thing that we are going into now with regard to the progressive phasing-in of electric cars in Denmark? Are we in a situation where we do not have control over recycling, source sorting and all the other things, also in relation to increased safety? We know that the cars are challenged by the fact that they want to drive longer and longer on a charge. This also means that many of the electric cars we will experience will have considerably greater battery capacity, that is to say at a time, and thus also more lithium and other things connected into the batteries. So the Danish People's Party is not quite sure about the sporadic initiative that the Minister has been out to say about today, that is to say that a working group has now been set in motion. Of course, that sounds very plausible, but is that enough? There we in the Danish People's Party are not entirely on the safe side, in that a working group will guarantee this adequately. And I think that if we look at the experience, we can see other areas where, for example, we have had these wind turbine discussions. At least after many, many years of running away, you have not been able to ensure that you can get a good recycling and a good protection in relation to putting residues from wind turbine wings in the right places and getting them recycled. In the Danish People's Party we are quite happy enough for wind turbines. We think they should be out at sea. They must be as far away from the Danish base as possible, at least from the plinth you can see without getting wet toes. That must be the way it should be done. We are very, very happy that we are out in megamills now, which makes it even more economically attractive to place them at sea. So that part of it can get settled. But it is, after all, a declaration of failure that we do not know what is going to happen when things are done. That's where I'm gonna have to make a connection between these run-out windmills and the run-out electric cars. We need to be on safe ground in order to ensure that there will be efficient recycling management in Denmark, so that we not only have to export both the cars when they are earned, but also the jobs that are with Danish car-cups to ensure proper environmental management of the wasted electric cars. So we in the Danish People's Party think it is very good and sensible that the Left has chosen to earmark this debate today in the Danish Parliament. This is an important agenda of principle, and we may also think that the government should take a slightly more positive view of the motion for a resolution. The Danish People's Party can certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122209	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122212	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm to me whether this resolution is simply not about wanting to start work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122228	Indeed, the resolution has been defined as it is, I also take it from the Socialist rapporteur's reading and, if you look at the discussion that has been going on in the past, we have seen a fairly large and clear difference between how this is experienced in the industry, in Danish autocutterers, and the experience that the Minister of Transport and perhaps also some rapporteurs in this Chamber have of how far we have come in that process, and I would say that pushing this car in the right direction would be very much to our side, and therefore it is also important that we back up these types of proposals, regardless of who comes up with the good proposals. And then perhaps I think that the government should be based on the resolution rather than on more tactical considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122317	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122318	There's no tactics in this. As we heard from the Minister and as I myself have explained in my speech, there is work going on and, as the Minister said, there is an eight-track motorway, I think it was open, in order to move forward in this area. There is work going on in the European Union, there is work going on in inter-ministerially here at home, and I am here specifically with a theme booklet from the Danish Emergency Management Authority, which is very concrete in terms of how to deal with some things. So in other words, my call to the Danish People's Party and other rapporteurs is really that if there are some things that you are in doubt about, ask questions about it in committee and that if there are some things that you want to deal with in this area, please do so, because as a government party we are only interested in the fact that all players in this area can play 100%. In this context, it is important that the European Parliament should be involved in the work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and in the work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. So it's a call from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122406	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122407	Well, we accept all the calls, especially when they are reasonable, but I must just draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that it is strange that it is claimed that there is an eight-track motorway, but that the industry has not been included in any constructive dialogue. I think that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122423	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur, I see in the Chamber, is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr President. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122446	Thank you very much for the floor, President. It is a good and constructive debate that we have heard here today. I think the proposal from the Left is constructive and sensible. I think that the problem being addressed is one that we need to deal with properly. I also think that the response from the government is very satisfactory in relation to the fact that there is an eight-track motorway and that it is possible to find the willingness and willingness to negotiate a solution. So I think that is very satisfactory too. The intermediate position, then, is that we should try, on the issues that are now coming, to drill out whether or not it has been done enough. And that is also the constructive tone I hear from Conservatives, and I would like to take this up. We will enter into the work constructively and try to drill out whether it is now also satisfactory for the players before we take up our final position on the proposal. Because if there's an appropriate stall in this, just as the minister says, which I think is true, there may be no reason for this. Conversely, if we cannot find it satisfactory in committee and so on, then we will be tempted to vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122550	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. This did not give rise to brief comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122600	Excuse me, may I welcome from the Socialist People's Party and say that they do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122605	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122617	Thank you very much. Just as long as there have been vehicles on rubber wheels on the roads, even before that, when there were wooden wheels on, there have been accidents that have been worse than others. Nowadays, there has been a shift towards batteries instead of this conventional internal combustion engine. This also means that the people who treat damaged cars must be able to store batteries, and they cannot do so today, which is why they are being sent abroad. There are several reasons why we believe that it would be good to require the government to get started with work on an inter-ministerial study that can provide a basis for better guidance and clear legislation in this area, so that we should not export batteries with the CO2 My dream from here is that we, in cooperation with Danish Auto Recycling, will have a law made that allows those seats that want to upgrade their seats so that they can store batteries. And, as you know, you can only upgrade your place if you have capital in the company to do so. At the same time, I think it would be very good if we could get some kind of labelling scheme that could label these used batteries according to some given model, so that you can buy a new slash • used battery for your car, so you don't necessarily have to buy a brand new one when the battery is worn down, but thus can buy a battery that suits the needs you now have. As a more personal note or thought, I think that we should at the same time consider looking at the industry in general. As we know, there is also a relatively large export of cars, cars, which have been paid a scrapping premium but which are still being sent southwards, far south. That is why this motion for a resolution will also provide a good opportunity for us to sort out a little, so that companies from my own area, Drying Autolag, which is a good and fine business, will not be compared forward-looking in the eyes of consumers with those companies that have a slightly more relaxed relationship with these rules. With these words, of course, we support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122851	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. So if the rapporteur would like to prepare for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527122924	Thank you. There is not really much more to say, because a lot of good things have been said about this proposal. I think it is common sense, of course, to create the opportunity to investigate how to ensure that the industry also knows how to, among other things. I'm gonna have these batteries disposed of. So we can support the proposal, and I also think that we should look at what is actually going on now and take it into account in the further work. I think it sounds like a sensible proposal from the Left and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527123003	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we are through all the rapporteurs, apart from the rapporteur for the proposers, who will have the opportunity to round off the debate. Here you go, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527123024	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate and good input. In view of the positive things that have been said, I cannot quite understand what the government's problem is with voting in favour of the proposal. Even if something is set in motion that we can now understand, it can't hurt to get all the way around, so we get right from the start to being able to build a leading position in Denmark in how we strengthen the circular economy and create more recycling, also in electric cars, and become the best ones to handle it in a good way. So I hope, on the basis of today's statements, that there will be a majority in favour of the proposal next time. But in any case, the most important thing for us is that something happens in this area, and that something happens quickly, so that we set a date on when our carjackers can actually stop sending cars and Danish jobs, one can say, out of Denmark and can start to handle the recycling of electric cars when they are out of service. What I also take constructively with me today from the Minister is that, in any case, a coherent piece of work will be carried out to ensure that we can get a sector to function in this area. So I sign for that, and I actually sign for the recognition that it is important that something happens soon, now here many, many years after we have got the first electric cars on the roads in Denmark. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527123150	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527123153	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for submitting the proposal. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not the case that this motion for a resolution calls for work to be started and that what we have had confirmed in this debate is that work is actually under way. I believe that the rapporteur will be able to confirm this in the near future, and that is why my call is just: should we not ensure that, with regard to the good work that many different actors are doing in these years, when technology is evolving and new products must be dealt with, and with regard to all the people we meet in our political work, who are in doubt about how to do here, we are putting these things into play, so that we ensure that the doubts are minimised in the handling of this thing with electric cars and hybrid cars, and so that we ensure that all the players who have to work with it, on the one hand, have a contact within the system and, on the other hand, know what to do? That is why I would just like to call on the rapporteur to take up the gauntlet in relation to the work that is already going on and thus help make it even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527123254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527123255	Yes, I agree with that, and I would also very much like, when we get input, to try to pass them on. Our suggestion here that we should also have looked at this in inter-ministerial terms does not mean that the work that is going on should stop or have to start over. It is about the fact that there is a clear experience among those who are working on this out there in reality, that there are authorities who are not talking and that no guidelines have come up here many, many years later. And there is a great frustration that we are not re-using these cars and that, to the extent that they are damaged, we are forced to send them abroad where we cannot keep track of the conditions under which they are recycled or whether they are recycled or, for example, whether they are recycled. how the batteries are handled. So I do not think there is a contradiction between our proposal that you take a round with it and look at whether our authorities work together and whether you can talk across the board about, for example. to create some good conditions so that we can build up a strength position in this area, and then the work that is going on. It's really about there being an experience out there that there's not really coherence in these things, and that's what we want to make sure there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527123359	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527123400	Thank you, and this debate will give us all the opportunity to contribute to the work already under way. We are all in favour of this being dealt with here. All the rapporteurs have expressed this, so I would like to ask the rapporteur if this does not give us any reason to look at whether we can come together in committee and draw up a report which is precisely about us taking up the gauntlet in relation to the work that is already going on and that otherwise we have intentions that we should, of course, contribute to the involvement of the actors and have a knowledge of what is of regulation in this area. Could the rapporteur see himself in such a report?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527123435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527123436	Yeah, I guess it could be, depending on what the contents are. I would also like to say, as relatively new to Christiansborg, that perhaps I just find it a little strange that when we all agree that it is important that we get all the way around this work, we cannot just agree to vote in favour of our proposal because we all agree on it. It is perhaps because of some tactics that one would rather not vote in favour of a proposal from the Left. But if it is not possible to secure a majority in favour of our proposal, then we are looking very constructively at a report if we can move towards a common goal, namely better opportunities to deal with these cars in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527123510	Thank you, Mr President, to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, but if the rapporteur would like to prepare for the next speaker. And it is the Minister of Transport who has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527123534	Thank you. It is just for a brief follow-up. I do not think that, as I have a little experience of, there should be a picture left of the government not listening to the Folketing in this matter. Because you have to know that the very question of this working group, which I have referred to and which is made up of representatives of the Danish Emergency Agency, who are primarily responsible, and who participate in the municipal tools that participate in the Danish Traffic Management Authority, who participate in the Danish Security Agency, and who participate in the Danish Traffic Management Agency, was established, among other things. on the basis of a question raised by a somewhat unusual alliance in the Folketing, namely between the Conservative Transport Rapporteur Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen and Enhedslisten's transport rapporteur, Mr. Henning Hylllested. It was a written question, a committee question that was answered on 2 April 2020, which specifically asked about the possibility of doing such in-service work. I indicated at that time as a minister that I had a great deal of sympathy for the fact that we started across these many regimes. And that is one of the reasons why, at the beginning of the year, a product has arrived, which is about how to deal with the safety of fire when there is an escalating heat development in the batteries and things like that, a very thorough piece of work about it. Then there are some outstanding issues which have also been mentioned in the debate here, which are also being looked at. And if it is the case that, in addition to the outstanding issues mentioned here, there may be other things, then let us finally get it clarified so that this working party can also look at it in concrete terms. That does not, of course, change the fact that there is some pan-European regulation that should set the formal framework for how car manufacturers, for example, should produce their batteries, how they should produce their cars in such a way that they can be recycled. There are a number of specific directives which ensure a framework for this and which ensure uniform rules across European countries, so that it is not separate requirements that are imposed on producers in Denmark, but that they apply across Europe. However, that does not change the fact that the guidelines designed to ensure that importers, that traders, that all those working on the alert, people who transport cars after a collision, for example, are also able to handle things in a proper and, above all, sound way. For an electric car or a hybrid car has a different kind of danger to it than a conventional car has. So just to make it clear that we will finally have to make things clear. But the reason why the working party exists is actually that the Folketing has requested it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527123900	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527124057	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527124118	Thank you very much, President. I'm sorry to hear you had to wait for me. We were sprinting as fast as we could. I have been looking forward very much to this debate, so thank you for the floor. I'm gonna catch my breath, too. We now have on the agenda a motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party and it instructs the government to hold an indicative referendum on the epidemic law before the end of this year. It is not a new idea because, as I recall, it was already aired by the party during the third reading of this epidemic law and what was, after all, a political agreement that some parties were outside, among other things. Danish People's Party. So then there were also arguments against the idea. I have to say that, on the part of the government, we have not changed our position, because we agree with the arguments presented at the time against the idea. So this is not a proposal that we in the government can support. But let me make some of our strongest arguments for that point of view. After all, the law is the result of long-term political debate, thorough professional involvement and also a considerable popular democratic debate. This applies prior to the tabling of the draft law, where we had negotiations with rapporteurs and party leaders, and there were several meetings also with a number of independent experts who presented their views both on the working emergency laws with sunset clauses and what needed to be changed and what needed to be done in relation to the law we saw sitting and debating. So there were independent experts, legal and legal experts who advised the parties of the Folketing and the government in that work. And all the work then resulted in the vote agreement that I started by mentioning, and so there is a broad majority in the Folketing that is in it. During the parliamentary debate on the proposal, too, there was room for negotiations and adjustments, and I believe that we have together come up with a very sensible framework for a future-safe and sustainable epidemic management, and this must of course be an epidemic law that needs to be adjusted, but there must be an epidemic law, and it must be applicable, regardless of what government and whatever majority may be in power, there should be new epidemics in the future. But that is not to say that we will then sit back and not take into account whether the law now also works optimally in practice, in that it is a very, very old law originally, which has then been amended sometimes during this epidemic, and the goal is, of course, as we said to ourselves many times in the last 14-15 months, that next time there is such an acute health crisis, we should not have such a great legal job, but that it was legally in place, and that future governments, future health ministers should not ask a future Parliament to rush everything through to such an extent as this might happen. Therefore, during the examination of the bill by the government, we have made a promise to the Danish Parliament that we will continuously collect knowledge and experience with the application of the law, and we have agreed that a statement on this matter will be sent to the Danish Parliament by the end of October. We in the Danish Parliament have had a new committee, the Epidemic Committee, and lots of parties, lots of rapporteurs, including the government, have gained experience, and that collection of experience will then be used to discuss the need for a possible revision of the law. It is also in black and white in the reports that have been submitted during the legislative procedure. The Epidemi Law is a special law, it is a law that not very many members of parliament and not very many Danes were actually aware that we had and knew the content of it, but we have become very, very aware of it in the last 15-16 months. But it is a law which, like all other laws, can be amended by the Folketing when there is a political majority in favour of it. Even if it should appear, and I cannot advance that here, that the parties of the Folketing, having considered the situation and considered a revision of the law, consider that there is no need for adjustments, the government has committed itself every five years, in cooperation with the Epidemi Commission, to look at the law, and this must prevent the law from falling into oblivion and collecting dust. It is important that we ensure that the law is always up to date and is ready to deal with the situation we will then be in as a society. I think it is a perfectly fair and entirely reasonable way of taking political responsibility for a Danish epidemic legislation, and I would like to thank those parties that are involved in taking responsibility, in fact thanks to all parties for having taken a huge responsibility in this situation in the various follow-up groups and rapporteur orientations and generally for taking a huge responsibility to help Denmark through this situation. I agree with the authors that this is an intrusive law with far-reaching measures, and that is what I hear is the main argument. I do not think that is at all open to discussion. Measures also have limits and possibilities for verification. The implementation of the provisions of the law must, above all, respect requirements for a necessity and proportionality assessment and must, of course, be consistent with both the constitution, data protection legislation and international conventions. A number of special arrangements have also been introduced in the area of epidemics to ensure transparency and legal certainty, and allow me to review the five main reductions in the law. Firstly, the powers of the law cannot simply be implemented, even if there was to be a government that wanted it. In order to activate the powers, the Danish Health Service must first and foremost have categorized a given infectious disease as a general danger, and only when that is the case will it include: The individual actions of the law could be applied, e.g.: order for investigation and isolation. The Danish Health Service is therefore a central player, and their role is clearly described in order to activate the powers of the law. Then, on the basis of a political balance between the consequences of the disease on society, a government can choose to activate the more social measures, that is, some of what we have been living for a while, that is to say, a ban on assembly and restrictions, as we know them today. This will then require the Minister of Health to categorize the disease in the first place as a socio-critical one, and the government can only feel that if the majority of the Committee on Epidemis, the new committee, is not against it. Secondly, therefore, a special parliamentary control system has been introduced with regard to the government and the implementation by all future governments of a number of authorisation provisions, including the categorization of social-critical diseases and the measures that can be activated against them. The scheme is designed to ensure that the government cannot give effect to the powers if a majority of the EP's Epidemis Committee decides against them. And before the rules are submitted to the Epidemic Committee, the government must ask the Epidemic Commission for a professional opinion, and this position must then be sent to the Committee on Epidemics together with the government's presentation, and I think that is something that clearly strengthens the basis of the committee's position, which is then on an enlightened basis, and I think we can agree on that. At least I think that makes sense. Thirdly, in the context of parliamentary control, a limitation has been introduced on the duration of most restrictions under the law. As a starting point, they can be valid for a maximum of four weeks, and we had to go through the parliamentary control system in order to continue for a long time. For social-critical diseases in particular, classification can take place for a maximum of six months at a time. So it is with the above-mentioned measures that there are three specific tools which together ensure a fundamental, increased parliamentary control of the government and of all future governments, and that is why I do not share the concern that the law should lead to abuse of power, as expressed in the motion for a resolution, because it would then be a abuse of power, which a majority of the Folketing is not opposed to, and thus it cannot be described as abuse of power, because then it is the Folketing that has the decisive role to play in this matter. Fourthly, it is a question of introducing automatic judicial review of individual injunctions, for example. isolation and treatment, as well as the requirement for the regular administrative review of the injunctions after 3, 10, 20 and 30 days and the requirement to first encourage the citizen to participate voluntarily in the measure. It must also increase legal certainty for the affected citizens. Fifthly, a special administrative right of appeal to the Appeals Board has been established in connection with visitor restrictions. It is a review body to which persons residing or staying at a treatment, care or care establishment or their immediate relatives may appeal if restrictions are imposed in the citizen's own home or stay at one of the said institutions. So we do not share, I do not share, the government does not share the opinion of the proposers that there has not been enough legal certainty or parliamentary control in the epidemic law. There is a whole new parliamentary committee that should be responsible for this work or that the Danish Health Authority no longer plays a central role in the management of the epidemic. I am aware that this law is also very clear and clearer than ever before described, as I see it at least, in this law. As I started by saying, the government cannot support the resolution, but of course welcomes the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125137	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125140	I would like to thank the Minister for a very full and, I think, a very sincere statement. I am not the health rapporteur of my party, and I am not really sure in what capacity I am here, but as Vice-President of my party, I would like to say that what is really the errand in this proposal is not so much to repeat the debate on the epidemic law, but more to reflect on the many, what can be said, popular reactions that have been over the past 18 months. At least in parts of Denmark I have seen people react in ways that I have not previously seen or had foreseen movements that have behaved in a way that I had not hoped to see. And the proposal here is actually more about trying to get the skepticism that some would say the ghosts that are being seen encountering by openly putting it out to a free decision for the people. So can the Minister of Health try to say a little bit about that perspective in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125251	Yes, but there we have the same perception and the same experience of our society. And it would have been utopian to think that the entire Danish population, without even a worried eyebrow, said: Whoa, what is happening to my freedoms here? I think it is a healthy and fruitful debate and, as I said, I very much welcome it. Then I also agree that such a debate sometimes also has the character of seeing ghosts and perhaps conspiracy theories, which are simply rooted in free imagination and have nothing to do with reality. I am now not sure that such a referendum would benefit. I might almost fear that it would polarise further. In general terms, it is my view that there is, of course, a concern when there is a restriction of freedoms, but certainly also an understanding that this is necessary in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125353	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125355	I think the most unfortunate thing about this epidemic law is really the time it was adopted. Because if it had been adopted at a time when we were not in a pandemic, there would not have been the same attention to it. But it has been seen as a Corona law, which it is not, of course, a law that must also work in the future if, unfortunately, a similar situation arises. But precisely for this reason, because of the timing, I believe that the tool of a referendum is right, because everyone feels that they have been heard, so that everyone feels that every stone has been turned, so simply to ensure that, even after corona, there is undoubted support for the people's rule that we share.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125435	Well, for the time that is being asked now, it must be said that even if all parties, both those involved in the agreement and those involved in all the work, which was also the Danish People's Party, were not to take them as income for the result, but they were in the debates trying to exert ourselves to say that this was not to be a Corona law, one could not help but say that it was the one that we should be acting after already per year. 1 March, I think it was where it came into force and with a new Epidemic Committee and everything else. So we have to look at this too, but the good thing is that we have agreed to look at it again in October just to see if there are things that need to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125511	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125513	Thank you and thank the Minister for the speech. That is exactly what the Minister refers to in his reply to Mr Tugendhat. Morten Messerschmidt about the way we look at it again, that I cannot understand why the government will not be involved in a general legislative process in relation to the epidemic law, because there, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt speaks of, of course, a rather intrusive law. So why is it that the government does not want to re-table the bill this autumn, and we can then have a consultation process, we can have an ordinary political debate, just as people usually do with this kind of thing, i.e., if I may say to run formalities again, instead of, if I may put it a little square, parking this question in a statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125604	But it is not exactly a parking in a statement. After all, there have now been two rounds of consultation, first of the original proposal, which in general was a mechanical continuation of the emergency laws, and then of the voting law that we now have in Denmark, with the adjustments that then came, thorough and involving processes in processed and therefore also consultations. Then we have also agreed that in October we will do a status and deliver to the Folketing, that is, what we as a government see working, and whether there is something that may not work, whether there are tools that come into use in a wrong way, whether there are things that do not work as intended, or whether there are other things that have become aware of. And, of course, we in the Ministry of Health will do that by asking our governments, by asking other ministries, whether anyone has something that has become aware of. I also expect Parliament's parties to come up with their analysis of epidemic committee cooperation, knowledge base, parliamentary control and those things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125707	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125708	Yes, but, Minister, the difference between the time when we adopted both the first and the second is that it has now been effective, that is, that the epidemic law has now had the opportunity to work, and the parliamentary control system, and that has the Epidemic Commission system and so on. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What is it that the dangerous thing would be about to retable the bill and get all sorts of players on the field, just as it is usually done in the context of legal proceedings? I find it hard to see what that is. This isn't something the government's gonna fall on. Well, what's the danger?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125743	Now we have agreed to look at it in October, when we will have some experience. And if it turns out that we on the part of the government and the Danish Parliament need to adjust and that is to say change the law and that cannot be rejected at all, it is too early to conclude now that we will have such a discussion and a hearing and a new legislative process. I think that's the smartest thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125812	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125814	Thank you. The Epidemic Commission was supposed to be this independent authority to advise, for example. Minister. Does the Minister consider that the composition of the Epidemic Commission ensures that this external authority ensures that it is an independent authority which advises the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125836	Yes, the composition is defined in the law, and we had great discussions about it. And those who sit there are doing the job of advising the government, and that is also to say, the Parliament's Epidemi Committee, with the concrete elements, and I think that, when you look at what they have so advised on, it has been a very, very nice and good advice. In addition, attention should be paid to the fact that the Epidemic Commission includes: is made up of KL, but that there are also a number of ministries, the Danish Health Authority, the Serum Institute, that there are a number of agencies. But in addition, before most cases hit the Parliament's Epidemi Committee, you have also heard external experts, i.e. people who are not employed in government agencies or in KL or others. So the external experts are also anchored there, and I think that is a good construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125940	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527125941	Yes, it is the Minister of Health who appoints the members of this Epidemic Commission, and the Head of Department has been appointed from the Ministry of Health, the Head of Department from the Ministry of Health, the Director from the Ministry of Business, the Head of Department from the Ministry of Finance, the Head of Department from the Ministry of Justice, and the Head of Administration for Patient Safety is then advised, who also sits on the Commission which is then to be advised. Well, don't you see? Is there any idea that the people who have been elected to sit on this commission should go against a government and go against the ministers whom they have to sit and serve when they sit as department heads? Will the Minister not acknowledge that there is a problem when you appoint your own bosses to sit on such a commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130027	No, I have to arrest what is being said here, because it is simply being portrayed as if I am sitting here and choosing that some of the ministries are sitting with it. But it is precisely in the law that it must be the ministries represented on the Epidemic Commission, just as KL is represented, and just as the governments are represented. So it is completely defined in the law and it is completely the way the law is written and thought about. So it is not true that I am the one who just appoints someone who should be particularly government-friendly. After all, it is a number of officials who are responsible for the duties of civil servants in the light of the legislation which governs it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130103	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. Then we can start with the rapporteur's line and the first is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130126	The motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party will require the government to hold an indicative referendum on the epidemic law by the end of 2021. There are several reasons why Social Democracy cannot support this. Firstly, and most importantly, we have a representative democracy in which the electorate has to decide on a regular basis, no later than every four years, which politicians should represent their positions and policies, and the politicians must then be on the target of the policy being implemented. This applies to epidemic laws and corona management, and that applies to all other laws that we adopt in here. Secondly, we have this very evaluation of the epidemic law every five years, and it has already to be evaluated in October. Thirdly, we have, of course, placed this very powerful monitoring body in the Epidemic Committee, which we have already seen seemingly too full a hammer, and many of us are sitting in here, who have seen from the first parquet what this committee can do, and with that supervisory body I believe we have had very, very strong parliamentary control, no matter who should be in government. So the Social Democrats cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130303	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130305	In line with what I asked the Minister about, I would like to know whether Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff will reflect on the process that we have been through and hopefully will soon be able to put behind us, in other words in relation to the reactions that have been, from at least parts of the population in relation to the corona management and thus also this specific epidemic law. Isn't there a need for us to move some of the process outside Christiansborg? I honestly believe that those who believe in what some believe to be conspiracy theories do not feel comforted by the fact that there is then a committee behind the thick walls of the Castle where you sit and discuss things or do a renegotiation etc. I think they need to put things forward in an open discussion. It's a tool we've used before. So, in order to secure support for the system, for democracy, is there no need to do anything extra than what the Minister is proposing? It doesn't have to be my proposal, it may be another one, but then I'd like to hear Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff thinks about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130413	The answer to the question is no, and I would like to justify it. I am in favour, as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party says, of the fact that it is also important to get it outside Christiansborg's walls, and I believe that this applies to all our policy areas. I believe that we all have a responsibility to ensure that the debate takes place here, takes place in the committees, but indeed it also takes place in the Danish population, and that it takes place on as reasonable and objective a basis as possible, so that when there are misunderstandings, distortions, manipulations, be it in relation to the epidemic law, that is to say, in relation to everything else, of course, we stick to what is the fact; and then we have to argue for our political views. This can be done between the elections, and one day, when parliamentary elections take place, you can do so. This applies to epidemic law, and it applies to all other laws we pass in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130515	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130517	I have to say, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff and I differ markedly from each other. I would say that this is probably the law that has made the greatest impression on me in relation to the popular reaction of a few others. But I don't see this as just a law like everyone else, for example. as a change in traffic law, or whatever it may be. This has attracted a very special interest and particular concern, and I therefore find it remarkable if Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff believes that this is just a piece of legislation like the hundreds of other laws we deal with every year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130547	I have no problem standing up for this law. I have done so in the press, I have done so in the Chamber, and I have done so on the streets and on the streets. And I will also come to the House in a very, very, very long time, hopefully, when there will one day be parliamentary elections to measure up to the law there, just as we all have to measure up to what we adopt in here, but also everything that concerns the people out there; for it is also a parliamentary control that lies in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130620	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527130635	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for having tabled this motion for a resolution. I think this is an insanely important debate, because it is now about that. 15 months ago that the Folketing gave the government a number of extensive powers. We did so at the time because we looked at the outlines of a crisis which we did not really know the extent of. When we look back over the last 15 months, we think that the government has shown itself to be quite happy about the powers which the Folketing has delegated to the government, and at least happier than I and the Left might have imagined that the government would be. In any case, the epidemic law that we adopted at the time has since been amended. It was, after all, here this winter and I seem quite clear for the better. I therefore agree with the authors that we can improve the epidemic law, which is better than the previous one, which we hated even more, and I believe that the practical handling of the epidemic law and the application of the epidemic law that we have been through here in recent months have also shown this. We therefore also agree with the Danish People's Party that there is a need for us to look into the epidemic law. For example, the law contains. Very large powers, where we can easily discuss whether the possibility of parliamentary control should be further improved. We believe that there may be a need to look at whether the use of automatic judicial review can be extended. We also think that, in relation to the appointment and composition of the Epidemic Commission, as has also been pointed out in this House, it is right to discuss whether there is anything to be retrieved there. We believe that there really is a need for us to discuss the role of the various health authorities during such an epidemic here, just to point out a few things. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt is, after all, much stronger in the constitution than I have any illusions about ever being, but I have understood so much as that the constitution does not refer to indicative referendums as a phenomenon. Nevertheless, the Folketing can at any time decide to consult the Danish people, even though the Folketing has very, very rarely actually used this instrument, i.e. indicative referendum. In the Left, we are very strong supporters, and I assume that everyone here is, of course, of the representative democracy that we have at least signed up to. And that is why we think it is the most correct thing to ask the voters about their views on us at least every four years. And between the parliamentary elections, then, we are on the goal of the decisions that we are involved in making. That is why we do not support the desire for an indicative referendum on this subject, and hence not what one might well call such an institutionalisation of a new parliamentary practice. That is why we shall also be voting against the motion for a resolution as it stands here. But we, like the Danish People's Party, are preoccupied with the framework of the epidemic law, and that is why we also want more than indicated that the epidemic law will be reviewed at the beginning of the upcoming parliamentary assembly. I hope, therefore, that during the committee procedure we will say to Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, can reach some kind of agreement that it will happen in one form or another that we will have the opportunity to formally look at the epidemic law in the seams. That is why perhaps we could now, if only now, at least later, insist by common help that the government first brings the epidemic law to the next Assembly for review, so that we can evaluate the law, so that we can have renewed consultations and thus also a renewed public and political debate on the management of both the current one, but also, for that matter, future epidemics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131106	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131107	Thank you for the good words. Just for the sake of clarification: when we have chosen to propose an indicative referendum, this is because if we had sought to activate the provision of Paragraph 42 of the Constitution in which to provoke a referendum, it would have meant that the law had only entered into force after that referendum, and then we would have had a period without an epidemic law. However, when I take the floor here, Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Martin Geertsen, it is not only to explain it, but also to hear how Mr. Martin Geertsen has experienced the process without now we heard Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff said earlier that this was a law like everyone else; we make many of them, and therefore there is no need to make special measures. I'll tell you what. Martin Geertsen the view? Or has he also, like me, seen a particular commitment positive or negative, but a particular commitment, I would say a particular concern on the part of the people, and that it calls for us as responsible legislators also to ensure that there is an exchange of information and a debate, etc., so that we can take the sting off at least the worst misunderstandings?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131204-2	Well, I've never seen anything like it. I do not think, and I do not think that there is any particular political disagreement about this, that it has been a law which has had a very serious effect on the individual, and I can feel it on myself if nothing else. I have become absolutely convinced of why I joined a liberal youth movement 30 years ago after having been through this, haven't I? I can feel how annoyed I am about constantly having government hanging over my shoulder, if I may be so free I can feel it. And so I assume that large, large parts of the Danish population have also had it. So yes, it is very intrusive and it is different from many, many other types of legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131255	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131256	I am glad that we share that view. Democracy is, of course, and I do not think that is just a Danish or European phenomenon, which I believe is universally linked to trust. In other words, we are confident that there will be listening, trust that the systems will work and so on. It has to be said that throughout this process there has been a great deal of mistrust. I have great respect for the fact that the Left will not vote for us to hold an indicative referendum, as proposed by the Danish People's Party. But what can Mr. Martin Geertsen then come on otherwise of proposals that can rebuild the confidence which, at least in parts of the population, has disappeared or diminished during this process?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131330-2	I do not think that speaking time will allow me to deal with this whole issue, but as far as the specific point is concerned, my suggestion is that we ask the government, hopefully by a majority after the summer vacation, to retable the epidemic law. This means that we can formally have hearings and that we can have both the public and the political debate on the epidemic law. Because I agree with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in that there are things in this epidemic law that can so much need some tightening up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131406	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131424	Thank you. Others have already explained the proposal very well, and I really think that the best thing would be to say: it has certainly been a hard year. I think it has been. And it is almost impossible to understand that it is now more than a year since we were introduced to corona in Denmark. I myself think it has been a huge test for our society, but it has also been a test that I think we, as a society, have passed well, not least because the citizens have shown a social mind, also in terms of keeping the infection down and in order to ensure that we could get through the pandemic well. Another important thing seems to me to have been the increased parliamentary and democratic control that we had introduced with the revised epidemic law, which was dealt with thirdly in February. The Epidemic Commission and the Epidemic Committee seem to me to have ensured greater democratic influence and transparency, which was lacking during the first part of the pandemic. But may I not also say that it did not exist in the old epidemic law at all. In the SF, we believe that in this way we have ensured democratic involvement in the epidemic law and that there is no extraordinary reason for holding a referendum. It is somewhat unclear to me what the Danish People's Party wants out of an indicative referendum on the epidemic law. Are you just going to reject the epidemic law? And aren't we really supposed to have an epidemic law? Is this not an important law for Denmark? After all, this is a law that we have always had and maybe has just not given so much attention until suddenly and unexpectedly we were in the middle of a pandemic for the first time in many, many years. And hopefully it will take just as many years before we have to face that situation again, although scientists point out that we will get used to the phenomenon to some extent. We believe in the SF instead of allowing parliamentary and democratic processes to do their job, as they have already been incorporated into the epidemic law. If I had had to point out something that I myself think has been a pity, it is really that we should make a new epidemic law at a time when we are in the middle of an epidemic. I also found it difficult to revise the Code of Epidemics because it was given the very character of being a Corona law. That is why I am also pleased that we have decided that the law will be revised in the autumn. Hopefully, at a time when we have put corona behind us and where we can look forward and where we are still concerned that the next time we are in a pandemic situation, we have a readiness that is ready, then we will not be surprised, so we have provided equipment, so we have made sure that we have the necessary preparedness in a much better and more qualified way than was actually the case here. I hope the law has contributed to that too, and I just hope that we will never need it again in my lifetime. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131743	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131745	The rapporteur asks me whether we do not agree that there should be an epidemic law and, indeed, that is exactly what I explained to Mr Beazley. Martin Geertsen, and that's why we've chosen this approach. What is at issue is, of course, just as the rapporteur has said, that there has been a coincidence between the fact that we were hit by an epidemic and the revision of the epidemic law. And then there have been popular reactions of a very violent nature... many of them with full justification and something I would say one can understand. It was annoying that you couldn't get a sound for people who were pounding pots and pans, but it was an expression of frustration. This is an attempt to say: what can we do for people to be involved, for people to be heard and for people to be taken seriously? It can, for example, be done. We must not forget that we are in favour of a referendum on the basis of guidelines. In this way, you will get a lot of significant input throughout that process, among other things. the result, but also the debate ahead of us. I understand why SF won't. But if you have any thoughts about what you can do, which is extra-parliamentary, that is, which does not take place within Christiansborg's thick walls, so that the people who stand and make noise and want to be heard are also heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131850-2	It is true: I do not think that an indicative referendum will give us a better opportunity for debate than what we actually already have. Well, sometimes I actually think that democracy is probably better than its reputation. When I was young, I had to go to the public library to find a yearbook and find out who to write to in Parliament, put stamp on it, and maybe I got an answer. Today you can write to the whole Committee on Health at once, in the middle of the night and even in a seven-horse fire, and then you can expect an answer, and I think that debate and dialogue are really commendable. I love it very much, and I think it's important. I have a great deal of respect for people expressing their opinions, even when they do so down at the Palace Square.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131935	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527131936	Well, I am glad that we share this view so far, and I also believe that it is true that democracy is better than its reputation. That goes for a lot of things. But does the rapporteur think that democracy has been given better or worse conditions over the last year and a half? In other words, it may be better than its reputation, but are we in a situation today where it can be said that democracy is stronger or weaker than it did before corona?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527132003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527132005	I do not think it can be said that democracy has gotten worse after corona. I think it is a duty that we also have as a society to help deal with an epidemic, as we have done this time, and I have listened to a great deal of discussion about whether it is to step on one's freedoms that we have to take this into account. I think it is that we take account of each other and then it is important for me that we have not had to use force in this context. The issue of forced vaccines has been completely removed from the new epidemic law, unlike the old one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527132037	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur, and then we move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr President. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527132053	Thank you, President, and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. Because I think we're all really tired of the epidemic and being restricted. Fortunately, we can now see an end to this: our society is largely reopened and today a third of the population has been vaccinated with at least the first stick. So it's going the right way. And as a society, we have managed very well through the epidemic, because we have all behaved responsibly, complied with restrictions and guidelines. The last year has also taught us all that it is important to have the right legislation in place. That is why we in the Radical Left also helped to speed up the revision of the previous epidemic law. Because it is important because it is extremely intrusive and because it was clear to everyone that several elements of the law had to be corrected. The health crisis must not become a democracy crisis. And to a large extent this was achieved by the law passed by a broad majority in the Folketing earlier this year, which has now been in force during the epidemic in recent months. Here was our focus on legal certainty, transparency and parliamentary control. Like the authors of the motion, I have seen the popular protests. I've also talked to several of those who have demonstrated. I have answered questions and I have done my best to understand the concerns that exist. Because it must be taken seriously, and that is why it is also important that we clarify the facts. The new law guarantees parliamentary control where a wide range of far-reaching measures, based on the Epidemic Act, must be passed through the Epidemic Committee before they can enter into force. In practice, this has meant that there are now negotiations behind the management of the epidemic, so that support is secured. And that in itself is a great step forward. Legal certainty is also ensured significantly better in the new epidemic law: there is automatic judicial review by a number of injunctions that are guaranteed access to an appeal board and there is a requirement for proportionality directly in the application of the law. There is much more openness and transparency, where recommendations need to be made by comments from both the Epidemic Commission and external experts, so that the professional basis is put forward. But that does not mean that it is perfect and that there should be no adjustments. Therefore, we have written into the law that it must be reviewed every five years to ensure that it is updated and adapted to any future situations. We have also agreed that in October we will have to pick up on the experience of the law that we have gained in recent months in order to discuss whether it should already be revised. In my view, therefore, parliamentary influence and a direct review of the legislation have already been ensured, as it is today. On the part of the Radical Left, therefore, we cannot support the proposal. However, I always welcome the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527132341	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we can move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527132357	Thank you for that, President. In fact, I think I will allow myself to put away the speech I have written, because I would actually like to start by signing off on Mr. Simpson's behalf. Morten Messerschmidt and Dansk Folkeparti to raise this debate. I had actually imagined that we were going down to have the usual discussion about the epidemic law, but I think it is a very relevant issue, such as the Danish People's Party and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt raises the question of how to ensure the continued trust of the people and democratic support. In order to start with what this is all about, namely both the emergency law and the epidemic law, it is still the case that for me it stands as one of the worst things we have ever experienced when we had to adopt the emergency law and it should be done so quickly and without any consultation whatsoever. And it was a very far-reaching delegation of power to the executive that we adopted on the part of the Folketing. That was also the reason why we were given the epidemic law. Where, after all, the emergency law had ensured that there was a sunset clause, that we secured some of the fundamental democratic rights from a legal point of view too, some of the things that the former rapporteurs have mentioned were also secured in connection with the epidemic law, in other words, both on automatic judicial review and on an ongoing revision of the law, in which we will see the first one here in October. And it was at least on the part of the Enhedslisten that we also had the ongoing review every five years, so that we can always ensure that we do not find ourselves in a situation where we have an epidemic law that does not meet the requirements that can be imposed on it. There are a number of clear improvements to the epidemic law that we had adopted, both on the principle of proportionality and on the minimum principle of intervention, but also on a clearer breakdown of the decisions taken, i.e. whether they were of a political or health nature. That is why I think that we are actually also faced with a workable epidemic law, as we see it today, and especially in view of the fact that we are going to carry out ongoing reviews of it, where we can also pick up on the experience we have. But to return to what I can actually understand is the background to this and which I fully agree with, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt and Dansk Folkeparti are absolutely crucial, so it is precisely to ensure the continued democratic support. And I think that, on the one hand, we should also recognise that when we look at measurements of public confidence in both health authorities and the political system, very few countries in Europe have such strong support and confidence that we still have in Denmark. I kind of think that's one part of the picture. On the other hand, we have been able to see that there have been parts of the population who have felt this as an extreme attack and in which it has also sometimes been marked by some false perceptions of what had actually been adopted. But we cannot change that view. There is, of course, a task in relation to it. I think that is a very real concern, because when you see parts of that movement, it also contains the seeds of something basically anti-democratic, that is, that you do not trust the authorities, that you do not trust democracy. And it is not a responsibility that we can push on to the people who experience it; it is, of course, a responsibility that we must take on ourselves. That is why I understand the intention of holding a referendum and saying that we shall now have the debate there. I just don't think it's the best democratic tool to use in relation to it. I believe that an indicative referendum on the epidemic law might even help to increase some of the polarisation. But I fully agree with the intention of the proposal, in other words that we need to look at how we get this debate out of the way and how we can ensure that we discuss and clear up some of the misunderstandings that lie, and we do this not only by standing in here and confirming ourselves that this is not the case. It is also about getting that debate out and getting people to experience that confidence again. That's where I think sir. Morten Messerschmidt has a point in that there is a task for us to do so. I do not think, then, that a referendum is the way to do it. I believe that direct dialogue with citizens, including the debates that we can have in the respective social media forums, but also directly with the people, is what enables us to eliminate the distrust that exists in parts of the population. Because I agree that when you look around Europe, but also when you see the movement that came around Trump in the United States, there are some worrying trends that we have to take seriously and where we can say that we have to take seriously the kind of undemocratic movement that can also arise and that does not trust the democratic institutions. So we will not be supporting this motion for a resolution, but I would like to sign that the Danish People's Party has also raised the debate here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527132906	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527132908	Thank you for the good words. We have chosen indicative referendums as a tool, perhaps in the absence of better ones, but, after all, when the elections have fallen on it, it is because in the votes we have had on the European Union, we have seen that when we have talked it through, regardless of whether you look at things differently, we accept it because everyone has been consulted. After all, we are no longer discussing the Treaty of Amsterdam. In other words, those who won accepted the premises and those who lost accepted the premises. And that is the amazing democratic feeling or feeling that referendums often give birth, whether you are on the winning or losing side. But what I'd like to ask, sir. Peder Hvelplund about is the audit he expects for October. I understand that that is where you might be able to embrace and get the feeling that we had a hope that an indicative referendum could create. - Sir... Peder Hvelplund say a little more about what is going to happen in October?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133009	In other words, what has been agreed in October is that there will be a revision of the law, where we will also be picking up on the experience we have. This will take place in part, as the Minister says, by the fact that there will be a collection in relation to government governments, but there will be a debate at least here in the Chamber between the parties about whether this will give rise to a definite revision of the law. Then I would like to say that I also think that this is a little different from the Amsterdam Treaty. Yes, the Amsterdam Treaty is probably the latest example of an indicative referendum we have had. But an epidemic law is of course a dynamic size, compared to the fact that it is different scenarios that we are going to face. I would say that what is most crucial to me, and what I find most interesting, is when we are going to be in the situation where we can say that we can now have the epidemic law deactivated and put it back in the drawer, and then we can have the ongoing reviews of the situation we are in in five years' time. Is it still an up-to-date epidemic law that we are dealing with, or is there going to be changes there as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133106	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133107	Well, I'd like to sign for that. And then I would like to know whether we can count on the other way in which it will then be a real critical review in October. I recall, from the third reading of the bill, that the sunset clause will only come into force if, I think, it was five years from now, something in the future. So it is not until October that we should start over and so on. So it requires active action and will, so to speak, if you are to change something in the law as it is there today. And that's where I'm gonna just take it, like mr. Peder Hvelplund says, as an expression, that the will then also exists on the Enhedslisten side.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133145	Well, it is. And it can be said that with the new epidemic law there is no definite sunset clause. In other words, there is a clause that every five years we are doing that revision of the law to say whether it is up to date in relation to the situation we are in, precisely to prevent us from being in the same situation as we were in March last year. There we had an epidemic law that we could not use, and that is why we were faced with a situation in which we needed an emergency law. So there is, of course, the fact that there will be an ongoing review, and it is certain that it will also take part in Enhedslisten, and we will also take a critical look at the experience that has been gained.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133220	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133221	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund for the speech. It is not to be carried around in what just happened around the third reading on the issue of revision this autumn. And it is part of the parliamentary system that you get dried sometimes, and I was dried there, isn't it? Because I had some feeling that there were parts of the political left who supported the blue parties in requiring the government to table a bill this autumn, i.e. to retable the epidemic law so that the law machine could run again with hearings and debates in the Folketing and such. I realise here at the third reading that I did not have that majority after all, because another agreement had been made that we should just do some kind of review that the government is doing without being obliged to do anything. Peder Hvelplund can recognize that description in such a general way, or whether he can at least confirm that the government does not
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133330-2	Well, now I can't help quoting sir. Martin Geertsen. Because if you start your speech by saying that you don't want to carry anything around, and then you do it afterwards, then maybe that's not the best way to have a debate. But fair enough. After all, the government is obliged to do what a majority in the Folketing requires the government to do. And it is clear that if it is the case that there is a majority in the Folketing in October that says that this means that we will have to have a definite revision of the law, that is to say that it will have to be re-tabled, then that is what will come of it. But it is clear that what we adopted in the third reading of the law was precisely that we had to pick up on the experience that exists, both for the government and also for the Folketing as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133413	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133414	Fair enough, I think I got a little carried around in that. I agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur on that. But why isn't the government sticking it up now? Then we could say that now Mr. Peder Hvelplund and I and other good forces Morten Messerschmidt's motion for a resolution, in which we instruct the government to present the Code of Epidemics to be reviewed in this Parliament this autumn. We could just do that. It just takes a "yes" from Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund, let's do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133447	Now I understand that it is a new parliamentary practice for the Left that impeachment will also be started. Although a committee of inquiry has been set up, it is ready to raise an impeachment case immediately without waiting for the findings of a committee of inquiry. In the same way, I have it in relation to this: now we have agreed that we will have a revision of the law by October, so I think it is very sensible to see what experience we have had, what the assessment from the governments and authorities is, and what the assessment from the Folketing and from the parties of the Folketing are. Then we'll take it from there. I think this is an excellent process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133517	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we go to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133542	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for debating the epidemic law. With the fallen remarks here during the debate, I will do a little like the previous speaker and put aside my script and then outline how we deal with it. I might as well start by saying that we will not be voting for a referendum on the epidemic law, because of course we will have a debate, and I can also understand that it was Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's intention to have a debate and perhaps gain a greater understanding of what the epidemic law contains, but I am not sure that if there were finally to be a referendum on anything, it would be the best thing to do. For if it ended with a resounding "no" and a huge opposition to it, how would one relate to it? Would that be an expression of the fact that we didn't have to have an epidemic law? After all, we have had an epidemic law for over 100 years, and the fact is that the emergency legislation that we made, on the basis of the covid-19 coming to our country, expired on 1 March, which is why we had to have a new epidemic law, and the government put forward a proposal that was inedible to most people, and that is why we set in motion a process to put in place a new epidemic law. And it is not the case that it came into being in complete secrecy and debate, and there were hearings where we heard from the Institute for Human Rights, Justitia, the Lawyers' Society and governments, and we were given an epidemic law which, I hope, will then have to undergo a thorough review when we come in the autumn, because that is simply what is needed. That is why I also hope that a majority can be created in the Folketing in order to proceed quite significantly, because there are certainly some things that can be corrected, and we would certainly like to have the opportunity to do so. As I said, we need an epidemic law, and that is why the referendum tool is probably also a bad model in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133806	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur, and then we go to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and that is Mr Beazley. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527133814	We in New Citizens are great advocates of referendums. We believe that there should be much more referenda. We look down with envy on a country like Switzerland, which uses it to have direct democracy in a, I think, very strong and sensible way. That is why we absolutely support this proposal. We think it makes sense. Of course, the Epidemic Act has been through some rounds, from the first draft from the government, where there was forced vaccination, to the parliament's decision, and there should not be. And then there were other drafts where it wasn't included. Then an epidemic law was passed and we also support its revision and its re-examination. Because it is necessary to do so. Now that it has entered into force, I believe that some shortcomings have been made apparent. It may then be that there is a political disagreement about it, and there may be other parties that do not think that there is a political inappropriateness in it. I fully acknowledge that, that is, the political difference that may exist in it. From my point of view, however, I think that there are some shortcomings, for example. the structure. This epidemic Commission, which I consider to be an extended arm of government and the official work which lies where it might have been hoped to be more independent in its thinking. There is the use of external experts, and here I might have expected the work of these experts to be more in-depth and that it wasn't just a quick phone call, and then you'll find out, etc. You have the feeling that it's something that's kind of going on pro forma just to move on. And then there is a clear, clear disagreement about the Epidemic Committee and what it is going to be used for. It is, of course, a real disagreement, as there is, and I think it makes sense for us to address it politically. Maybe we'll agree, maybe we won't. But that is why we can easily see that there is reason for us to revise it and that there is reason to believe that there is also an indicative referendum, precisely in order to get the support of the people, because this must be something other than a Corona law, namely an epidemic law. So in this way, this is something that really enters people's private sphere, both business rights and citizens' fundamental civil rights. It's important that people are involved in this. And there are parts of the population, including large sections of the population, who are puzzled by what is happening. I recently received an email from some very frustrated hairdressers who are still under restrictions. You can then see a celebration of Danish Championship with Brøndby. And all honour and respect for Brøndby's championship, and that fans want to celebrate. There's nothing wrong with it. But they wonder that the government then maintains some rigid restrictions on them and that they may experience a fine, in fact a considerable fine, if they do not just remember to get asked into a coronapas. There are some things in this that are not connected, and I also think that one broadly hopes that there are some inappropriate things in the way it is, whether it is the way the law is arranged or the way it is administered by the government. That's what I think we need to get closer too. It may well be that the law is actually thought in the right way when you dive into it, but the way it is administered gives some inappropriate things. And then the Folketing has to take it on board and say that then we have to knit the law differently so that we get out of it and avoid that it is from the government that these inappropriate things come. So I think there are some important debates to take and we can easily support the proposal from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527134155	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527134159	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur mentions, among other things: the composition of the Epidemic Commission and the use of external experts. After all, both were something that I also raised during the third reading, and before that in the debate on the epidemic law, because it is of course important that we have the professional basis in place, it is important that there is openness, it is important that there is transparency. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur has thought more specifically about the composition of the Epidemic Commission. Now, of course, we are going to debate this in the autumn, and I myself have made a list of things I would like to have up for discussion when we need to revise the law. I would like to hear what the rapporteur has thought about the Epidemic Commission and the use of external experts? What could we do to tighten up and make the law even better?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527134239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527134239-2	In other words, I fully recognise that there may be elements where things have to go really, really fast, and that is why we need to react quickly in the Epidemic Committee. I would like a more factual and in-depth explanation from the external experts to be given to the Committee on Epidemis. The way things are going now is that we are basically just told that they are backing up, and then there is a small text. But what is the factual background to supporting these things? This may help to validate the decisions that are being taken. I don't think there is now. And then I'd like to see that there was a slightly greater separation from this Epidemic Commission. I would have liked it to have greater autonomy, to have a greater independent professionalism and honesty which it brought in. So these are two very concrete elements that I think should be looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527134328	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527134329	Thank you. Yes, I also pleaded for external experts to sit on the Epidemic Commission. There was no majority in favour of this, and that is why we now have this structure with external experts with whom they have to advise themselves. The rapporteur also mentions the way in which the Epidemis Committee should operate, and there may be disagreements there. It is clear that there may be political disagreements about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527134402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527134402-2	No, there will not always be. We have seen that there has not been. Once again, the Epidemis Committee has spoken against it, and then we have seen that there are parties that have been involved in some of these reopening agreements, which have nevertheless not voted in favour and voted against some of the things that have come. So that it is just such a carte blanche because a political agreement has been reached in relation to never happening any of this, I do not think that there are examples of it not always being so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527134429	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from LA or KD, so we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527134441	Thank you, President. The British statesman Winston Churchill is the author of a series of clever, funny, memorable quotes of among others. the democratic form of government. One of those who remember me is: The best argument against democracy is a short conversation with the average electorate. Another is that democracy is the worst form of government, apart from everyone else. It says a lot in a subtle, ironic way about the form of government which is now ours and which has, at least so far, proved to be victorious in the history of both Denmark and the world. But democracy does not come on its own. It is not something that can be implemented by a law and decided that this should be the case. There are many examples of this in world history. Democracy grows out of some values and trust in each other, among others. a trust that a minority, whether here in the Folketing or in the population, will not be deprived of its right to try to become a majority of those who currently have the majority at some point in time. It is perfectly obvious to us, but it is not, of course, if we look around the world where there is not the foundation of trust and recognizability that we are enriched with in Denmark. I have to admit that, as far as I am concerned and, I hear and know, for many colleagues, it was a landmark and sometimes also disturbing experience to see how the corona epidemic affected, hit hard against the foundation of trust on which our democracy lives, and that requires a response. Today, at least, we are discussing a proposal for a response that might be that the law that has been wrongly or not has been seen by many as a corona law, we ask the Danes: What do you think? It is not the case that, in such an indicative referendum, it is the case that Parliament has been robbed of the possibility of introducing a new epidemic law, of course not. That's not the idea. It could also be that one could convince a majority of Danes that what a large majority here at Christiansborg has found together was a good idea. The very inclusion, the very fact of having the debate outside the thick walls of the Folketing, thus has an amazing conflict-causing effect. Perhaps it is because I am burdened with having participated in an incredibly large number of EU debates and referendums on the European Union that I have experienced this and perhaps also immediately think in the referendum instrument when I find that some are trying to shake the foundation of trust for our democracy. However, it is indisputable that the EU debate, which has divided the Danes, divided parties, yet having referendums, indicative or binding, has brought about a reconciliation in which the result has been accepted, because it was not just the Folketing, the representative democracy that made a decision, but because everyone was involved. Anyone who wanted to be there could come along, and something special is happening about that. When we look at the epidemic law that has now been adopted by a large majority, it is not the case that the criticism is silenced. Nor is it the case that criticism can be categorized as coming only from people with a silver paper hat on and without trousers sitting behind a screen in a basement. I think that's the general picture some people are trying to draw. It's people who know what's going on. They're professors. They're experts. It is people who work on epidemiological issues on a daily basis. And the fact that the criticism is there does not, of course, mean that at Christiansborg we should panic or necessarily do what the experts say and recommend, but that is what creates the basis for what may be a small fracture in the beautiful democratic monument, growing ever larger and eventually becoming a very large crack, perhaps so large that part of the monument falls away, and that is where we as the legislature in Denmark have an obligation to be vigilant. I am quite open to all the arguments put forward by the opponents of the proposal today. Those are objective and sensible considerations. We still think, of course, that our proposal is the right one, but I hope that the fact that we have had this debate today, and that it then turns out that there is an overwhelming majority who will vote no, yet we do not say: that is it. For the problems are still gone. The distiller's still gone, and we can't live with that. Now that we have the review in October or in five years' time, I therefore hope that this debate will be fresh in mind and that the intolerable, deafening noise equipment used in the Palace Square will be freshly remembered and that the many concerns that people who are not just blamed for being dishonest fools but active, committed fellow citizens in our society will be taken into the room. We can't live with the fact that that audit in goose eyes just becomes a Christiansborg process. We need to ensure that those who are rightly concerned feel and are heard because otherwise I am afraid that it will not stop. As Mr. Peder Hvelplund and others mentioned, we have seen reactions in other countries, France, the United States, etc., to the government's most often necessary intervention of a much more violent nature than what we have seen in Denmark after all, but things are growing. So if we don't try to involve and listen to those who are worried here, well, then they don't just go home then they group themselves, then engage, and then frustration grows. So if we are not to end up where the Americans, the French and others have ended up, yes, then we have to think in terms of how we get this criticism, whether we find it justified or unjustified, silly or factual. For it is basically about ensuring what Churchill, far more formal than I ever come to, has formulated, namely the worst form of government, apart from everyone else, democracy. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527135148	Thank you. There is one person who has wanted to make a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527135150	Thank you very much. And thank you so much for your speech. I am certainly not opposed to the rapporteur's proposals. I think it is an incredibly important debate to take. This law is so important that there's support for a law like this. I fully agree with that part. I do not believe that an indicative referendum is the way forward, but if we can do something to promote the debate, get input to us by October, where we need to review it, I think it will benefit everyone. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: is that not a way to go? It is not the vote, as I hear the rapporteur, that is the essential thing; it is the debate that is essential; it is the fact that we bring forward the arguments that are essential. Then it couldn't be something we could get together about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527135243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527135244	I will certainly accept the outstretched hand. So, what's important is exactly what Mr. Stinus Lindgreen says that people do not feel pushed away with their concerns, but taken seriously whether we do so in the form of an indicative referendum or find other tools. Now that we are out in the subtle world of quotes, I think it was Deng Xiaoping who said that it doesn't matter what color the cat is as long as it can catch mice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527135311	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527135311-2	I fully agree that it is the dialogue, especially when there is disagreement, that is the most important thing. Dialogue is always important, but especially when there is disagreement; in other words, to listen to the opponent and hear what the arguments are. It may be that they are not worth using in here, but at least you have to listen to them and take it seriously. That is also what the rapporteur thinks people feel they are being listened to, that they are being taken seriously. It may be that they are wrong, but then they need to know why that is not the goal here, so that we can secure that support? We fully agree, I can hear, on the purpose of the debate in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527135338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527135338-2	Yes, it is. And I think that if we do not have an ongoing discussion about how those who feel justified or unjustified are stigmatised or outside the traditionally very well-founded and strong Danish democratic spirit, and if we do not have a thought about how we ensure that as many as possible are still part of that spirit, then it can crumble between our hands. Unfortunately, there are frightening examples of this, including in recent European history and in world history.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527135407	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur because no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Epidemics Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed. Then I should like to draw attention to the fact that the question No. F 55 under item 38 of the agenda may start at the earliest. 15. In view of this, I should like to announce that the sitting will be suspended until 8 a.m. 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527150005	The sitting is resumed. There are the following announcements: Members of the Danish Parliament Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Kim Valentin (V) have informed me that they want to take back the following question to the Minister for Culture: What will the Minister do, based on the experience of the last year's aid packages and initiatives in the field of culture and art, take initiatives to ensure that Denmark still has a strong and vibrant cultural and art life when society opens up after the Corona crisis and we can again exploit the full potential of cultural communities? F 46). The question has now been dropped. I have received from the rapporteur for the questioners Uffe Elbæk (UFG) information that he wishes to withdraw the following question to the Minister for Culture on behalf of the authors: What does the Minister intend to do about the obvious challenges facing the Danish media, large and small, old and new, due to technological and international media development, to take initiatives to strengthen the democratic conversation, critical public and quality journalism both locally, regionally and nationally? 50). The question has now been dropped.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527150120	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 1 June 2021. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr von der Vring. Morten Messerschmidt from Dansk Folkeparti, for a reason for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527150150	Thank you, President. A few days ago, we had the broad, general debate in this Chamber on the international conventions. This was largely a debate on the European Convention on Human Rights, and today we have the pleasure of discussing a very specific decision of the European Court of Human Rights, the so-called Lacatus judgment, which does not really concern Denmark in the sense of the paper. This is a verdict against Switzerland on a Roma from Eastern Europe, and most will say: well, why should the Folketing even have to deal with it? We must, of course, because Parliament, in its dubious wisdom back in 1992, decided that all the judgments which might fall from the Strasbourg Court should be adapted by the Danish authorities. This is what has led the Attorney General to consider whether the practice of interpreting Article 197 of the Criminal Code prohibiting begging is now compatible with Denmark's international obligations, as it is called, i.e. Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights on the Protection of Family Life. And that's in the light of what we've asked the Minister of Justice to report on the action against foreign begging. I think that most people I dare say with a certain amount of concern and perhaps also disgust remember how until a few years ago Denmark was open to groups of people who came from Eastern Europe in particular, the Balkans, as beggars, settled in the moon and few, sitting around the city picture, assembled for the sole purpose of begging. Of course, that is not acceptable. That's what we're gonna have to fight down. Denmark must not be a sanctuary for beggars or beggars, as the law says. We are therefore of course concerned whether this judgment, the Lacatus judgment, could now have an impact on the tightening up of the begging clause carried out by the Folketing some years ago. It is in this light that we ask the Minister for Justice to explain his view of the matter, but also hopefully to give an answer to what is behind me, which measures can be used to sustain and gladly for us to intensify the pressure against foreign beggars and especially their backers. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527150432	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the reasons for the question. Then it is the Minister of Justice to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527150447	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for the question. I would like to begin by saying a few words about my attitude to begging, because I agree that there is a need to keep up the pressure on the foreign beggars and their backers. Denmark is a welfare society based on a safety net that offers economic and social help to people in need. In Denmark, we seek poverty relief with social measures and welfare benefits, and therefore it should not be necessary to beg in a country like Denmark. In fact, it goes back to the time when we decided to move away from the bourgeois hat lady's social policy to a more embracing, dignified social policy, that is, the fact that the fact that you were in need did not mean that you should come humblely with your hat in your hand, but that there was a society that reached out and was there and looked after you. It has been our approach, as time has gone by, was the broad political approach, but in reality it started well with Steincke's social reform. That is the foundation on which we stand. Then I will continue to add a few words to the background to this debate, the so-called Lacatus judgment. On 19 January this year, the Court of Human Rights found that Switzerland had infringed Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights on the right to privacy by imposing a fine on a Romanian citizen for begging. The fine was subsequently converted into prison sentence for 5 days. As you know, in the Danish Penal Code we also have a provision on begging, which is otherwise in section 197. In paragraph 1 of that provision: 1 a person may be punished with imprisonment for up to 6 months if, despite first receiving a warning from the police, he or she begs again. The penalty is, as a rule, 7 days suspended in prison for the first time. It follows from that provision that, under mitigating circumstances, the penalty may lapse. In 2017, the Danish Parliament added to the article of the provision. 2 an exception to the warning requirement when begging is committed in pedestrian streets, in stations, in supermarkets or in public transport. In addition, in these cases, the penalty was tightened up so that, in the first case, if the begging has taken place in these particular places, the sentence is 14 days of unconditional imprisonment. In such cases too, however, the penalty may be reduced or waived under mitigating circumstances. My officials in the Ministry of Justice have carried out a legal analysis of the Lacatus judgment and any consequences it may have on the criminal code's provisions on begging. It is the view of the Ministry of Justice that there are a number of reasons why the judgment does not require an amendment to Article 197 of the Criminal Code prohibiting begging, although it must be assumed that, in the light of the judgment, there will be a risk that the Court of Human Rights will find that Article 197 of the Criminal Code cannot be maintained within the framework of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In assessing the judgment and following the assessment of the judgment, which came out in the way I just mentioned, it is not necessary to amend the Danish penal code. In this context, there are, among other things, the following: It stressed that there were a number of differences between the Swiss law to which the Court of Human Rights was referring and the Danish legislation on begging. The Ministry of Justice has explained the differences in a note which has also been forwarded to the Danish Parliament. In addition, there are a number of ambiguities in the arguments put forward by the Court of Human Rights in the judgment, which also speaks against the amendment of the Danish penal code. It is clear from the 1992 preparatory work for the ECHR to be incorporated into the law that restraint must be exercised in establishing that the Danish rules are not compatible with the ECHR when the scope of the ECHR in relation to the rules is unclear. As I said, the government has a desire to limit insecurity-building begging, which we know can be a major nuisance. The current regulation against insecure begging, including police access to take action against begging in the street picture, is important for citizens to move safely in public spaces. Nor am I in any way interested in Denmark again, if I may say so, becoming a magnet for foreign beggars. Against this background, I do not believe that there is any reason to change the criminal code of begging. The questioner has wanted to get a status for the fight against begging. Since the Lacatus judgment, the police have, as a starting point, continued their work; in other words, the police have investigated cases of begging without, however, producing arrests on the judge's watch for arrest or indictment, since that is the task of the prosecution. And the prosecution has suspended ongoing criminal proceedings as a result of the sentence. The Ministry of Justice has informed the Attorney General about the Ministry's assessment so that the Attorney General can take a position on the current suspension. Overall, the government believes that the Danish legislation on begging provides a safeguard against the insecurity and unrest caused by begging in public spaces. The Government is therefore satisfied that there is no need to amend the Danish Penal Code as a result of the Lacatus judgment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151058	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. A brief comment from the rapporteurs is now available, and the first is Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151105	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. The Minister uses part of his argument as to why the Lacatus judgment does not give rise to any change in Denmark, namely that there is no so-called absolute ban on begging in Denmark. That is at least what the Ministry's letter says here. But what is also stated here is that the exception in paragraph 1 is that of paragraph 2. 2 that no prior warning should be given, can be used if it happens, and I quote: the places where begging most often takes place. When the exception is the places where begging most often takes place... it is on page 17 of the Minister's own paper... does the Minister not agree that the exception is in fact wider than the starting point?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151159	What I think should be borne in mind is that the main rule in paragraph 1 is that the Commission should be able to take the necessary measures. 1 that a warning should be given, continues to apply, and that we are in a situation where the penalty according to both paragraphs 1 and 2. 1 and pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article 2 may lapse under mitigating circumstances. And then you just have to say, when reference is now made to the note, that you have to take care of the whole note if you want to indicate what is the conclusion. And the conclusion, and therefore the legal assessment, is that our regulation at home is not contrary to the Lacatus judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151235	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151236	Thank you for your reply and also for your statement. From the outset, it is of course gratifying to note that the law stands and that the Danish Parliament is still in charge here in the country. It is nice to know. But there is also the question of how it is then used, and there I have noted that the Attorney General has at least made a reservation and is waiting. So can the Minister also confirm that it is not only Paragraph 197 that remains unchanged, but also the existing practice linked to that provision?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151316	Well, that's why the note was also sent to the Attorney General. It is then the Attorney General who, next to me, as the highest prosecutor in the country, can relate to what this gives rise to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151330	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151333	Well, it is because the papers sent by the Minister to the Danish Parliament state that there is a risk of the process of maintaining the Danish rules. Frankly, I don't think it's very pretty. It is almost a confession case, in view of the fact that if it reaches the Court of Human Rights, it may lose a case. Does the Minister not think that this is a little contrary to what is in the understanding paper?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151401	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151403	No way. And the interpretation that the fact that there is a process risk means that it is a confession case is nonsense. After all, in these types of cases there will always be a process risk. That is why, of course, we also have to point this out when there is a process risk such as the one that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151422	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151424	Yeah, thanks for that. After all, there is not always a process risk. The Minister for Justice, Jo). We can, of course, make the law so that there is no doubt that it is contrary to both this judgment and to the European Convention on Human Rights at all. So isn't this for the government a really good opportunity to say an apology for changing the Danish begging law so that it becomes a little more humane?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151500	Point 1. Then we simply disagree politically on whether the regulation contained in Paragraph 197 (1). 1 and 2 is a go for Denmark or not. We think it should be maintained. We think it's good. Point 2. Then, when it is suggested that law is an exact science, I have to point out that it is simply not law. Of course, there may be different degrees of process risk. But law is not one of the science subjects, fortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151534	Thank you to the Minister for Justice and now we move on to the debate and the general rules for short remarks. And that is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527151604	Thank you, President. It seems increasingly frequent that I am getting • despite the fact that I am trying to keep it down • pity for the Minister when I listen to his parliamentary support parties. It must be really hard to be the Minister of Justice under those conditions. In other words, when you hear Enhedslisten say that we can simply set up the law so that there is no procedural risk, the Enhedslisten has either a proposal to fully legitimize the right to trust it, you can have faith in it, or they simply have not understood that the EU's human rights court's working method is dynamic, and that we are therefore wandering behind, unfortunately, as the diligent little doggie who says: what are we going to do now? rather than being the slightly more nasty bulldog who says, yes, I really do not want to say from Parliament's platform what I would say to the Court of Human Rights. So now we are in a situation where we are struggling to stick to what, at least a very large majority in the Danish Parliament only four years ago, was agreed upon as necessary, the circumstances of migration, etc. that we are in Europe and therefore also in Denmark, taken into account. And, of course, we are pleased that the government, which was then in opposition but was also behind the addition to the provision, shares the view that we must defend the rules that we have today. However, inspired by what Mrs Lund said, we can almost be sure that this is only another act in a very, very long performance. Because there are plenty of beggars around Europe who see enormous perspectives, not only in Mrs Lund's and her like-minded ones, but indeed in the Court of Human Rights. And if you cannot obtain a majority from the Enhedslisten and their friends in a country, you can simply go to the Court of Human Rights, and then you can get the judges to implement socialist, crazy policies, and then you can get yourself very enlightened and sensible people, as the Minister of Justice, to sanction them. That's the problem here. And that's why I sometimes feel a certain pity for the Attorney General. We are pleased that, hopefully today, we can state that the Folketing believes what the Folketing also meant four years ago. But I cannot help but express my concern about what is ahead. For the Lacatus judgment, if not in Denmark, then at least in Strasbourg, the basis for a new practice, is a new precedent. It opens the way for even more beggars to bring proceedings and proceedings to extend the scope of Article 8. And I am absolutely convinced that is not in Denmark's interest. So if I now read out a proposal for adoption which, of course, I do not understand, finds support from socialists or other good people on the left but still has a majority behind it, then it is with the reservation, for my part, that I think we will be standing here again soon. And I would like to ask that when he sums up the debate here, the Minister may have given some thought to how we deal with the future. Is it by more active intervention? Is it by ensuring that cases are brought before the Grand Chamber? Is it by saying that we are only following the decisions of the Grand Chamber? There are plenty of opportunities, and I hope that the Minister of Justice, as I know, shares my concern about judicial activism, has given some thought to what we are doing in the future. However, as I said, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, I should like to make the following statement: proposals for adoption: the Parliament does not want to criminalise poverty. In Denmark, poverty is sought with social measures and welfare benefits. The Folketing considers that a ban on begging is necessary to ensure public order. Parliament therefore wants to maintain the current regulation on begging, including police access to beggarry in the street, so that citizens can move safely in the public space. It is the Danish Parliament's belief that the current possibilities for the police and the prosecution to sanction begging are crucial in the fight against insecurity-building begging. The Folketing agrees with the Government's view of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Lacatus v. Switzerland (14065/15), according to which it is considered that the judgment does not require the amendment of Article 197 of the Penal Code on the prohibition of begging or the practice in force today. V 135). Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152100	Thank you for that and the proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152105	Thank you for that, and I actually get it, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, want to say thank you for the compliment. For it is quite true that the policy of the Enhedslisten is fully in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. That is also quite correct, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, that Enhedslisten actually wants to abolish the begging law we have in Denmark. Because we do not believe that we can criminalise ourselves out of poverty. But now Mr. Morten Messerschmidt saw a text for adoption which says that neither will one. But that's what you do. Because you make a begging law saying that it is illegal to be poor, without offering any alternatives, without offering any help, because it is a text for adoption, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt. These are not specific initiatives put on the table by the Danish People's Party, unless Mr. Morten Messerschmidt will of course explain them now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152205	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152206	No, what the text of the adoption says is that we do not want to criminalise poverty. We'd like to criminalize begging. But let me take this opportunity to meet Mrs Rosa Lund, because it was quite a confession case. If Enhedslisten's policy is always compatible with human rights and the practice of the Court of Human Rights, then that means that my prejudices confirm that Enhedslisten's policy is completely unforeseen and that it can fall out in all directions. So, with human rights judgments, it's like throwing dice up in the air, and then there can be some sixers and some ones among, and what you've been playing on, you don't really know. That is how understandable it is with Enhedslisten's policy. I think that is very helpful to know, and I shall then try to spread it to the public in such a form of public service.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152257	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152258	Well, I always think it's so exciting when sir. Morten Messerschmidt or one of his colleagues will try to present Enhedslisten's policy, so that with the public service I look forward, firstly, to correcting the errors. Second, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, is what you do when you have begging legislation, yes, that you criminalise being poor. That is why I really want to hear: what is the Danish People's Party's bid to get people out of poverty? Because we do not get people out of poverty, we do not get homelessness removed, we do not get begging removed by making it illegal. So what's the offer, sir? Morten Messerschmidt?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152337	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152338	It is a very depressed view of poor people, if you think is the only thing they have of opportunities, is to decay into bed. But that may be how you look at it in the Enhedslisten. We don't see it that way. When people are struck by the accident that they lose their income base or get into financial trouble, there are many opportunities. There is to seek a new job that is seeking debt relief, and perhaps there is also to turn to your family and say: can you help me for a while? There are plenty of opportunities, and we would like to inspire and support that. That is also why, when it has been necessary, we have been very concerned about making labour market reforms so that we constantly ensure that there are opportunities to get a job in this country. I know that Enhedslisten would rather have people on public support, but there too we look at it differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152419	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152420	Here too, thank you for the compliment, and I think I was included in the category referred to by the rapporteur as 'other good people', because I am certainly not a socialist. However, I can also confirm that the policy of the Radical Left is in line with the European Court of Human Rights, since we are strongly in favour of international commitments and the human rights that result from them. In fact, I think that what the rapporteur read out in the text of adoption which was adopted, and I quote that a ban on begging is therefore necessary, gives rise to the fact that the note from the Ministry of Justice should be rewritten. Because that certainly changes the premise of it if you think a ban on begging is necessary. In any case, it will come into the Swiss legislation. However, what I would like to ask is whether the rapporteur does not agree that, when an exception to the general rule is that the exception covers the situations where begging most often takes place, it is broader than the starting point set out in paragraph 1. 1.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152524	No, and I heard the rapporteur asking the Minister for Justice the same question, and I do not agree with that. For the purposes of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: After all, 1 addresses the entire Danish jurisdiction, where pcs. 2 refers to a defined jurisdiction, and the demarcation must necessarily always be narrower than the full jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152541	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152541-2	But when, in relation to a paragraph relating to begging, one selects certain places and says that the begging takes place most often and there is no prior warning in those places, does the rapporteur not see that it can be said that it must be most cases, that is, most of the cases? That is why it raises doubts as to whether what is also mentioned in the text that was read out with a ban on begging is necessary. When you regulate it in most cases, is it not wider than the starting point?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152619	No, it is exactly the same as how we have done it in, for example. ghetto legislation. We have the ordinary criminal law that says that if you commit various criminal offences, violence, theft and whatever it may be then punished, and if you do so within a particular jurisdiction, that is within the ghettos, the penalty is harder. This does not mean that the harsher penalty is the general rule, because it is still the exception to the general rule. So what the Minister of Justice has put forward is a complete runaway from ordinary case law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152644	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. The next rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527152700	Thank you. It is not illegal to be poor, and it should not be illegal to be poor in Denmark. In fact, it should not be illegal to be homeless either. We have people in this society who, despite living in perhaps the world's best society, are homeless and live on the street, and there must be room for that. The development we saw years ago was that, to an increasing extent, people were transported, sometimes in buses, people to Denmark to live in camps around the park areas and elsewhere and systematically begging in front of supermarkets, in public transport, and this created insecurity for ordinary citizens and put enormous pressure on Danish homeless people. To counter this development there was a need to make legislation that would make us stop the transport of people from outside into Denmark, which both creates insecurity in the larger cities and pushes the Danish homeless. That was among other things. one of the reasons why this legislation was made, namely to ban illegal and insecure begging. Another thing we did was prohibit these people from camping, and that was one of the things we changed after we came to and got the government, namely the definition of what a permanent camp is. But it is actually legislation that has worked and that has meant that we do not see much of it, for example. Roma who settle in Copenhagen and create extreme insecurity where they live in park areas and other areas and put enormous pressure on our homeless. That is why there was reason to clarify the legislation on permanent camps when we arrived, because we also saw that some Danish homeless people were caught up in that legislation, but that is why there is also reason to stick to the legislation we have about begging because it is a safeguard against insecurity, but also a safeguard against pressure from Danish homeless people. Are we solving Europe's poverty problems by removing this legislation and opening up the way for new transport of people from outside, perhaps also poor people who can settle in Copenhagen? No, we don't. Is it a real problem that there are poor people in Europe who, moreover, have far worse conditions than they do in Denmark? Yes, it is, and it is, among other things. One of the reasons why we are very much in favour of the European project, because it actually helps to lift countries up economically and thus create a movement in which people move from the lowest social classes into the middle class. Structurally, it's a really good idea, but it just doesn't change that we've had a challenge with this begging where this legislation is good. So do we have this judgment in relation to Switzerland and the consequences of it, and does this mean that we have to amend or perhaps completely remove Danish legislation? And there's the assessment, of course. in the note given to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, but also in what the Minister for Justice has examined, that we do not need to do so. I think that is a good thing, because I am quite sure that if we removed that law, we would see a new stream of people who came to Denmark and created insecurity and created an unsustainable situation for Danish homeless people, and we do not want that, and that is why we stand together here and now with a number of parties on the text of the adoption which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has read up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153050	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153053	Thank you. It is, after all, an admission without equal when it is stated in the text of the adoption which was previously read out that a ban on begging is necessary. Ergo, there is a ban on begging, and that is what the Geneva canton has said in this example, it is not allowed to do. I would therefore like to ask why it is so important for the Social Democrats to run a procedural risk against some of the most vulnerable people, namely the homeless. Why is it necessary to force them all the way to the European Court of Human Rights when, in their daily lives, they have many other challenges to deal with: finding a place of shelter for the night, getting something to eat? Why do we absolutely have to hunt down those people all the way through the judicial system so that they can get the right that they seem to have?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153146	Now, sir. Kristian Hegaard is a lawyer, and if Mr. Kristian Hegaard has a proposal to improve this text of adoption so that we can maintain the legislation, but run a minor process risk, I think it is very welcome. Because I think that was the first part of the criticism. And then I think we should take a look at it. The second part I tried to reply to in my speech: I do not believe that we will have a better situation, either for homeless people elsewhere in European countries or for Danish homeless people, by not having this legislation in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153214	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153215	Of course, I have some suggestions for improvement, and that will appear later in the debate when another text for adoption is read out. So I have plenty of suggestions for that. What I just have to ask, which is not entirely answered, is: why is it important to pat on the homeless in relation to taking a process risk, which is done with open eyes, against some of the most vulnerable people? Why do they have to be forced all the way through the judicial system? When there is such a clear judgment as the Lacatus judgment, why should Danish homeless people and others experience that fuss?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153253	It is very interesting, as I know, there is not a lot of Danish homeless people who are experiencing a problem with this legislation. I know there are actually plenty of Danish homeless people who are in a better place today than they were before this legislation came into place because they experience less harassment and less insecurity from foreign people who come in and settle down on the street and push the Danish homeless. Then we have had some cases about Danish homeless people, where I think the police and the prosecution have handled it wrong, interpreted it wrong. That is why we need to clarify some of that legislation in a purely legislative and, indeed, in cooperation, precisely in order to give a free space to the Danish homeless.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153331	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153333	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's comments. I am glad that we have been able to come together on this text of adoption. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is the same thing I mentioned to the Minister in my speech: what are we doing from here? After all, no one expects these matters to continue in the future. There will be beggars around Europe who will find new inspiration in this judgment and say: they certainly cannot persecute us in those countries that have rules like Switzerland in the way the Swiss did. This always opens up new opportunities to come to Europe from all the 50 countries that have signed the Convention on Human Rights who are begging. There is probably Denmark just more attractive than the Azerbaijani I imagine. So what do we do in the future? Even now, before the next judgment comes and we are struck by the shock, we ought to have some thought about what the protection is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153434	If we focus on what was the problem, I have tried to explain it in my speech and also why we are in a better place today with the legislation we have. Then it is clear that if that legislation disappears or comes under pressure, we will have to look at how else we can solve the problem that I think is real. Some people do not recognize that, but I think it is a real problem. I do not see what that legislation might look like or whether there are other options. We can see that what we have achieved has had a significant effect. I think that is a good thing. We hear from the social organisations that it has worked. We don't hear a lot of examples of Danish homeless people getting into trouble. But it is clear that this is something that we need to follow very closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153517	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153518	I fully share the view that the rules that apply today are good. The ideal would of course be that they were not needed at all, but they are good. So the question is: what are we doing now to ensure that the next Strasbourg ruling does not force us to change those rules, because the rapporteur's party will follow the decisions that come from down there? One solution could be to say that it is always a Danish priority to appeal to the Grand Chamber. Another might be to say that we are only following the decisions of the Grand Chamber because the procedure is simply too weak in the previous cases. Those are possibilities. Is that something to be considered?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153556	I really think that the Ministry of Justice and the Minister for Justice, if not taking advantage of the opportunities that exist, have taken it quite seriously and are trying to do a thorough job and explain why we do not believe that the ruling and the interpretation there is is a reason to change Danish legislation. Then there's nothing but to follow it very closely. If we were to get into new problems, we would have to deal with it. We will be ready for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153625	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153628	Now I had only one question for the Minister of Justice, so I have to ask the Socialist rapporteur, and I would like to know: what is the risk of the process? Is there a negligible risk that Denmark will be faced with a judgment, or is it a little bigger? I would like to expand on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153654	I just can't help you elaborate on that, so I think we have to wait for the Minister of Justice to come back to the platform. He's nodding. And then he's warmed up to answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153711	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153712	Well, then I'll have to put it in the money box. Perhaps the rapporteur can tell me how often it is written in such assessments that there is a risk of a process. Is it often the case that we meet with assessments that suggest that there is a process risk? I know that there is also in the logging proposal sketch. But I think that is something new that I have seen in my time as a legal rapporteur. However, in relation to what I have seen in my time as a legal rapporteur, I think this is something new. This is something that has come here in the last two years. Is this usual?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153751	This is kind of a fact quiz. The SF's legal rapporteur has just been in for longer than I have. But now the Minister has some time to write down the questions and give some answers. Because I just can't answer that. I don't know. In relation to the question that came from Mrs Rosa Lund earlier about whether we really dare to run a process risk, I would say so much: all legislation has it in me, namely that it is then for interpretation afterwards. And in that sense there will always be some kind of process risk, precisely because it is not chiseled in stone tablets that have been carried down from the mountain. But it's something that we people do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153826	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527153842	Thank you. This is clear from section 197 of the Criminal Code. 1 that begging and begging are punishable by a warning. This presupposes a certain amount of personal contact, and it presupposes a certain amount of inconvenience, and there are a number of judgments about which one can study more closely. Of a thickness not exceeding 1 mm 2 it is now apparent, after the change here in 2017, that no warning is required if the begging takes place on pedestrian streets, stations, public transport and the like. It is 14 days in prison, as the Minister for Justice explained, but it is worth pointing out that when compared to the situation before the court, it is not quite unconditional that it is 14 days in prison. There is, after all, a general rule in Article 83 of the Criminal Code and several other rules in Chapter 10, which states that the penalty may be reduced under the prescribed penalty when information about the offence, the person of the perpetrator or other circumstances is decisive, and in other extenuating circumstances the penalty may lapse. As far as I understand from the Ministry of Justice's note, this is one of the major differences in relation to the judgment before the court, namely that at home it is not 100 per cent. I'm sure you're gonna go to jail, to tell you the truth. There were reasons why we amended the criminal code here a few years ago, so that we got a paragraph. 2 into the picture and the reasons were correctly described by the Social Democrat rapporteur: we had a beggar problem to such an extent. I cannot understand, when I hear the debate here, that it should be a better Denmark that was filled with international beggars who have been busted up here as the situation was then. If you go for a walk on the street or where the beggars used to be, you just have to say that the problem is over. I think it is a highly successful legislation that has been implemented. It is good in a welfare society that no begging is made, because in a welfare society one can seek, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt said, his arms out, arranged in other ways by society, fortunately. The question is whether the Swiss judgment changes our legislation here in Denmark, whether it has any significance. There is the relationship, after all, that the Ministry of Justice has made a 27-page long note I think I repeat: 27 pages and you can actually see many individual moments in it. You can then read what you want to read, and I can hear from the debate that there is one sentence that has become the main rule. So there are 27 pages here, but then one sentence sneaked in at the end, and it is evident that it has become the main rule of the debate. The sentence reads: However, it should be noted that there is a risk that Denmark will lose any future case before the court on the compatibility of Article 197 of the Criminal Code if such a case is brought or brought. Some people are wondering whether we have ever heard of such a sentence before, and I have to say that yes, I do not think there is any Danish law office, any Danish lawyer or any Danish university professor who will deliver a response without that sentence being included, because, like my old university professor, Halfdan Krag Jespersen always ended his lectures by saying: anything can happen when a case comes before the courts. We must therefore say there that no one, including the officials of the Ministry of Justice, will agree to guarantee anything, and that is why the person who has written this has of course chosen to include that sentence. Anyway, I just have to say that it's two lines, or one and a half lines, out of 27 pages of well-documented material we're talking about. On the basis of the examination by the Ministry of Justice, I have to say that it is my clear opinion that this ruling now before us will not bother the Danish provision, the Danish constitution of Paragraph 197, neither paragraph 3. 1 or 1 2. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt has read out a proposal for adoption, and the text of the adoption is acceptable to the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527154307	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527154333	Thank you for the floor. I think that most people in the Chamber have probably guessed SF's position on this question of begging. After all, we voted against the original begging law, and we also voted against it when we took a position on the proposal again, because there was a sunset clause, I believe, last year. This judgment of the Court of Human Rights is about a violation of human dignity and the right to respect for privacy. After all, it is Switzerland that has been convicted in this case, which is the basis for this debate. It was considered that the fine of EUR 500 and the subsequent imprisonment of the young woman could not be seen as proportional to the objectives of combating organised crime or protecting the rights of pedestrians and shops in the area where the begging had taken place. The young woman who was convicted is extremely poor, has not received schooling, does not have a job and does not receive social benefits either. In other words, it was a hugely exposed person who was punished, although her begging was in fact the last option for survival. In fact, I think it is very well emphasised that the problem is social and probably should not be combated in terms of legal policy, because we are in danger of criminalising poverty, which in the end could also affect Danish beggars in addition to the foreign ones. Beggars and homeless people need a helping hand and opportunities to build a good life. It's not like I think begging isn't a problem. I think that when it comes, for example. If we are talking about the organized form of begging, where the backers use other people in a difficult situation to get themselves revenue, then it is very reprehensible. But the verdict on Switzerland, which is about this woman, says precisely that it is not organized crime that is affected by precisely the punishment that fell to that woman. And therefore there is much evidence that the current approach to it is not good enough in Denmark either. I just think I will say here at the end of the day that there has been mention of a few times that there is a risk of a process. I think it is wrong to maintain the Danish rules when it is clearly stated that there is a risk of a process. And that means, of course, that in the end we can risk losing a case at the Court of Human Rights and being forced to change our rules. I don't think I see this very often in assessments from the Justice Department. It may be that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen sometimes sees it in professors' papers or elsewhere, but I do not think it is usual practice for us to see such things from the Ministry of Justice. I believe that perhaps it is also almost at odds with what we have agreed in the understanding paper to respect our international obligations and safeguard the rights of the individual. I think we should end the begging law as it is here. We cannot punish ourselves out of poverty. So I hope, if someone is hit, that they will take it all the way to court so that we can correct our legislation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527154723	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Is it the rapporteur who has to read out the proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527154733	That's right, so do I. It is good that someone can remind me of it, because I have to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the SF. And it sounds like this: Proposals for adoption The Parliament believes that it is homelessness that must be combated and not homeless, and that poverty should not be criminalised. Therefore, the Folketing considers that the rules of the penal code on begging should be amended accordingly. This is also underlined by the Lacatus ruling handed down by the European Court of Human Rights. Here the penalty level is lower than in Denmark for the same offence, as there are other clear similarities between Danish and Swiss legislation in this area, and therefore Denmark should immediately amend legislation and correct in accordance with international obligations. The Folketing considers it undignified and poor to run a procedural risk on behalf of homeless people who have plenty of challenges in their daily lives, for example, to find shelter for the next night, instead of bringing cases before the European Court of Human Rights. • V 136)
ParlaMint-DK_20210527154831	Thank you. This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further debate. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527154847	Thank you for the floor. The closing debate in the Danish Parliament in 2017 was a day of shame for the Danish people's government. Normally, when you have a closing debate, it is relevant to look at the year that has passed and what has been achieved. You didn't do that that day. Efforts could have been discussed for vulnerable people, for the elderly, for people with disabilities, for our hospitals, climate change, education or the economy. They did not, for the day when everyone was gathered together, the homeless were to suffer. It was with the debate that the deposed for the begging law was drawn up, and the Folketing was additionally summoned in the days thereafter just to pass the law. The Beggar Act has been heavily criticised since then, and now it turns out that it is in all likelihood illegal too. Several experts have also been quoted for this. In fact, Switzerland has lost before the European Court of Human Rights in a case where a citizen was fined EUR 500; in Denmark it grants prison sentences. That is why the arrow points out that Denmark will also lose such a case. Among other things, there were: The majority said that a ban on begging was necessary, not to have an absolute ban on begging in Switzerland, but in a text for adoption which was read out just now by the rapporteur for the questioners. On the basis of this interpretation by the parties concerned, it must be understood that Denmark must also have such a ban. What is also mentioned in the Lacatus judgment is that there is no adequate balance in the legislation on begging in the Geneva canton between the various considerations which may appear in the legislation on begging. The European Court of Human Rights found that Switzerland violated its obligations because begging was punishable regardless of the beggar's background, possible vulnerability, the nature of begging, whether the beggar was part of a beggar network and where the begging took place. The question must therefore be whether Denmark will then make such a balance which did not take place in the Geneva Canton. In the judgments we have received in the Ministry of Justice's note here, it has not mattered what the beggar's background is. Danish legislation does not mention the potential vulnerability of the beggar, which is not in the same way related to the nature of the beggar in the decisions in question, nor does it mention the distinction here between being a member of a beggar network or not, as the European Court of Human Rights otherwise mentions. That, among other things. This is where the begging takes place, particularly in the legislation, and which is linked to the concerns that are balanced in the decision of the Court of Human Rights. It is said that this consideration must be taken into account, and it is interesting in relation to Danish legislation that the situations in which prior warnings are not to be given are those where begging is most often taken place. This is what is on page 17 of the note we have received, which means that the exception must be assumed to have a greater scope in practice when it is the places where the begging is most often carried out, and thus it must have an impact on the interpretation of how close we are to having an absolute ban. That is why we believe that we need to adapt to international commitments as soon as possible. So let's not get logged into this, where we break the law year after year with our eyes open. Let us fight homelessness instead of homeless people, because it is therefore unworthy and arduous to run a process risk at the expense of homeless people who have ample problems in their daily lives finding shelter for the next night and finding a meal without also having to spend time raising cases before the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155323	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155329	All I have to do is pray, sir. Kristian Hegaard to clarify here for the Danish Parliament whether the Radical Left believes that Denmark was a better society for Danes before 2017, where there was a true invasion of beggars from abroad. Is that better? Is it a state that the Radical Left would rather have, like when there were beggars in S-traine, beggars in pedestrian streets, beggars everywhere in fact? Was it a better situation than the one we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155400	The Radical Left believes that Denmark is a better society if we combat homelessness and the underlying causes of it rather than fighting the homeless. That is what our legislation does not reflect, and that is why the Radical Left wants to change it and wants us to conform to the Lacatus judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155420	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155421	In other words, if the Radical Left came to power, that is what it is almost
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155432-2	On the part of the Radical Left, we are much more concerned with combating homelessness. So, yes, we will change the law. We want to change the effort behind it, because it is not the homeless who are to be hunted down. They have plenty of challenges ahead of time, and we believe that this legislation and other legislation dealing with begging are pushing the problem more around rather than resolving what must be what is crucial, both in terms of legal and social policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155501	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155503	We must understand that the Radical Left wants to remove section 197 of the Criminal Code. 1 and 2, that is to say, it must be legal in Denmark for Danish as well as foreign beggars to engage in beggery. That is how I understand what the rapporteur is saying. I would just like to hear what the rapporteur has done in relation to all the people who then come to Denmark because of those who want to make money out of their bet. How will the rapporteur estimate that Denmark will be in this situation in relation to other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155540	But we do not think it is wrong to decide whether the person concerned is part of a beggar network, for example, and that is also what the Lacatus judgment says, that is that it is relevant considerations to include in the decision in question. What we find problematic with that paragraph. 2, which was inserted in 2017, is that higher prison sentences are given • that more is being fought against homeless people rather than homelessness. We believe that this is a completely different effort than just pushing the problems around.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155613	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155614	Well, I do not quite know what kind of debate the rapporteur is taking part in here. It's obviously not the same as the rest of us. Well, this isn't about homelessness, this is about the right or not the right to begging on public street. The only thing we have found out so far is that the Radical Left always agrees with the Court of Human Rights, but we have not really figured out what they really think. So, the Radical Left believes that it should be legal to engage in trust in Denmark, and if so, what consequences do you expect it to have for Denmark's attractiveness in relation to foreign trusters?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155647	I can fully confirm that, of course, we believe that the decisions taken by both international and national courts should be complied with. It is, of course, what characterizes a community governed by the rule of law that you conform to it. And there we think we should do that in relation to the Lacatus judgment, just as we also think we should do in any other context. We think that the additions that came to beggar legislation in 2017 were highly problematic and that they need to be gone again, because it is more fighting homeless people than homelessness, and we think this is unworthy of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155730	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155731	Thank you. The rapporteur is the world champion in answering the question. I just have a short question. I hope for a reply which is brief yes or no: Does the Radical Left believe that it should be legal to beg in Denmark yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155747	I've told you several times. Of course, we believe that we must comply with international law. It is essential for the Radical Left that we comply with what is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155803	But seriously: is it really the case that you have a party that says that now we are depositing our entire legal policy and immigration policy into a court of law? After all, in our democracy we feel that it is politicians who make the legislation and then the courts judge it. If we don't find that the sentences are right, we'll change the laws. That is, of course, the problem with this extremely activist court that we have, namely the Court of Human Rights. So seriously: is the radical Left's policy one to a tied up in a court that judges in the east and west?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155841	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155842	I can say very clearly: the Radical Left does not want there to be an absolute ban on begging, because the European Convention on Human Rights does not allow that, and we very much pay tribute to the rights and values on which the Convention is based. It provides a protection for people who make people strong individuals because they have rights by virtue of the people they are. So, of course, we must comply with the judgments of both national and international courts. Then you can discuss what they find, but we cannot discuss the law, or rather we can discuss the law, but we cannot discuss the fact that they find out what they are doing in the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527155922	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten, who is being asked to be ready. Thank you and welcome to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160001	The very wording of the question in this question debate indicates a view of the problem of begging, which I do not agree with at all. These are not hardcore organized criminals standing on the streets begging in Denmark. These are vulnerable people who live very hard lives, and if they are then at the same time subject to threats to them and their family, or if they are being pressured to give money to someone, then it is not their accomplice, but then it is some people who exploit people at the bottom of society, and I think we all agree that this is absolutely not fair. The so-called backers are those who must be hard-pressed, but to take tough action against people who have to beg for food and clothing is not part of the fight against crime. Because it is a social task and it is a social responsibility that we, as a rich country, must take on. The Enhedslisten was against the law that was introduced back in 2017 in this area, just as we are against the camp ban and the zone ban. Because this type of legislation helps to criminalise homelessness and poverty, and so nobody wants to end up in that situation. It is not a choice that individuals take from a lot of cool different options that you can sit at home on the couch and choose from, but it is the last and only way out. This does not alter the fact that there are, of course, arrangements and problems that need to be dealt with, that is, that there are foreign homeless people coming to Denmark, and, in relation to the camps that exist in different places in our cities, it is of course the case that the police have to remove them if they have the smallest character, for example. It's a tiny town. But it has to be done properly. It has to be done, for example. This is not the way to send out a bulldozer and take away all people's belongings or papers, including their identity papers, because it creates very great problems for people who have plenty of problems in advance. We have also been calling on the Enhedslisten to create the so-called transit spaces used in Sweden for a very long time. The rooms are a way to ensure that people who are homeless in Denmark and live on the street by begging or by collecting bottles or other things get an opportunity to return home in a dignified way. The purpose of a transit room must be to provide the state of the homeless with regard to health, the right to social security benefits in the country of origin and to ensure that the necessary resources are available, for example: food, accommodation and health care, interpreting and assistance for contact with the authorities of the country of origin, relevant NGOs or family, and planning and contributing to the return and reception of the homeless in the social system of the country of origin. That is why we call it a transit area, because the aim is to ensure that some people who are here for reasons of poverty and other reasons are able to return in a dignified and orderly manner. The details of the offer that the transit rooms we have to offer are outreach work, that's the reference to these transit rooms that we in the Enhedslisten would like, legal and social advice and assistance to contact the home-country embassy. That's the kind of thing we have to look at. This ban on begging really does not solve anything, and we proposed it here even when the law was passed in 2017, and we are still proposing it, because we can see that criminalisation of the area has not solved the problem at all. After all, neither poverty nor homelessness have been eliminated by this. We've only criminalized being so poor that you have to beg. Then, in relation to the judgment, I would say that I still find it difficult to see how the Danish legislation does not fall under. I have read the note from the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice, but I still find it difficult to see it, and I do not think that we are going to solve that problem today, I can then say to the Social Democracy and the Government, but it is a discussion that we are still going to have over the next few months about how this should be interpreted. Because in the Enhedslisten we have at least the fact that Danish legislation must comply with what is happening at the European Court of Human Rights. But that should not be news, and hopefully it will not surprise the government that we disagree with the government's interpretation of this matter. In addition, the Enhedslisten can support the adoption text that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160457	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160502	Thank you. Like the Radical Left, does Enhedslisten want begging to be legal in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160510	At any rate, we are in favour of this law being abolished, and it is true that the consequence must then be that begging becomes legal. But that doesn't mean we just see it as the solution to anything. As I said, we would very much like to engage with these transit rooms, where we are helping foreign homeless homes to their country of origin in a dignified way, where they can receive dignified treatment, and then we would very much like to have better conditions for the homeless in Denmark. In other words, for us, this is much more a matter of social policy than a matter of legal policy, Mr President. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160546	I interpret that as a yes: Enhedslisten wants begging to be legal in Denmark. Is that correct? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160554-2	Well, the consequence of removing this ban will be exactly that, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen says. I just don't think it can stand alone. That's more just what I tried to say in my answer before.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160610	The next brief remark is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160612	We would very much like to hear what Enhedslisten wants to replace section 197, but first we just need to know whether section 197 exists in the Universe of Enhedslisten or not. It's not quite clear. What do you want? Will one make it legal to entrust in Denmark, i.e. completely decriminalize both pieces. Art. 1 2, or it's only part of it, etc. But it should be possible to find out. Are you going to legalize all the charges, or is there something that has to be illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160651	Well, I really do want to call former MP Mrs Line Barfod and ask than I would like to call Strasbourg and ask. But we feel the way in the Enhedslisten that we think we should go back to the law as it looked before 2017. But I think this is a relevant discussion, because what will happen if this area is completely decriminalised? Well then, it will happen that we will be forced to move the issue of poverty out of the Ministry of Justice and into the Ministry of Social Affairs, and I think that is actually sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160719	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160721	So we certainly established that we want to return to the state of things before the amendment of the law in 2017. Does Mrs Lund have any idea how many foreign beggars there were at the time and what it meant for the Danes' safety on the street; what it meant for the Danes' ability to be at peace for presumptuous beggars who have rarely had the very great association with Danish society? So, what will the more practical consequence be of returning to the time before the amendment of the law in 2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160751	As I also explained in my speech, we said at the time of the first reading of the law in 2017 that it was Mr. Rune Lund, who was Enhedslisten's Legal Rapporteur, is that we want these transit rooms that you know from Sweden, where you can thus help foreign homeless people to a more dignified treatment on the way home again. I cannot say here on a stand-by basis exactly how many there were, but as I also said in my speech, we think, for example, that these permanent camps are a problem. But we don't think it's the camp ban that solves it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160824	The next question is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160826	Thank you. The situation that was before the 2017 law amendment was • I think we all think that's untenable. A majority then chose to tighten legislation so that the punishment for insecure begging was tightened up. It worked. Well, we can see that it worked. We have no idea if it would work if extra money were spent on social assistance for foreign beggars, who came up here on buses at the time, and it seemed relatively organized. But that would undoubtedly be something that cost money. The question is whether Enhedslisten really believes that Danish social services should be used for foreigners who are transported up here in buses and openly organized, or was it not better that they did what they have done now, thus both ensuring that these foreign beggars are away from Danish streets for the joy and benefit of Danish homeless people and also save the money that they can spend on Danes after all?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160931	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527160932	Well, I simply do not agree with the premise that it should be criminal to be homeless, that it should be criminal to be poor. That's what happened here. After all, we have taken things in Denmark that actually belong in social policy and put them into legal policy, and we basically disagree with Enhedslisten. We are proposing these transit rooms, which are known from Sweden. I think that is actually a very good idea of a solution, and we in the Enhedslisten would like to see that tried.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161004	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161006	Thank you. The rapporteur started out with something about the tone of the debate and about the view of people in relation to this question. I have to draw one of the same cards for the first time ever. I think it is extremely generalising and extremely degrading to both people who have little money and to the homeless to say that they are then beggars. This is about begging. This isn't about the homeless. It's not about the poor. It's about begging, and it's about the problem we had in 2017. So why do we want to generalise in relation to a whole group of people who are not all beggars?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161040	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161041	Firstly, I really do not recall saying anything about the tone of the debate. Secondly, when you beg, what I said in my speech is not something you do for fun. It's not like you're sitting at home on your expensive couch playing at your expensive playstation thinking what am I gonna do today, and let me just go beg some money. Yeah, maybe if you work at Danske Bank. We can discuss whether Danske Bank has been out begging some money recently. Maybe they do. But the generalisation here, I would say to Mrs Pernille Vermund, is of course about the fact that this is not the way to make an active choice to beg. It's a situation you're forced into because you don't have any money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161120	Thank you. The next comment is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161123	Thank you. Mrs Lund's phone rang before I did not know whether it was Strasbourg or Line Barfod, but we can clarify that. Now to the question. The rapporteur says that this law is about banning homelessness. Well, I know there's nothing in this law about homelessness being banned. That's one. The second is that we have now discussed it with a process risk, and can the rapporteur - and it may be that the rapporteur has to call Strasbourg or Line Barfod - mention legislation of a similar nature where there is no risk of a process? So, isn't it a bit in the whole structure that there will be a procedural risk, compared to what a court will judge in various cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161211	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161214	First, I'm sorry that my phone rang it can't be silent when it's an unknown number. It's a very annoying problem, but I don't have time to get it fixed because I have to stand on this platform a lot. But it would be nice if Mrs. Line Barfod called, but I don't think so, because her number is encoded. To answer Mr. Jeppe Bruus, I would like to say that I think this legislation on begging, camping and the zone ban is a package that criminalises being homeless. Because if you're homeless and you don't have any money, you almost have only one choice, and that's begging. So that's one thing. On the second question, I would like to say that, for example, we do. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Kristian Hegaard said it very well: let us not make this the same situation where we know that similar judgments have been made in Then I think we can correct it now so that we do not get into that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161319	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161320	Then it was probably Strasbourg who called if Line Barfod's number is on the phone. But now I did not ask about similar legislation where there is also a process risk. In fact, I asked the question differently: is there legislation of a similar nature where there is no risk of a process? Because now it's unique that there's a small reservation at the end of this note. And then it is quite natural to ask: is there any legislation of this nature at all where there will be no risk of a process?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161350	I don't know the paragraphs in my head, sir. Jeppe Bruus, and of course I am sorry about that. But I'm pretty sure that part of the alien law doesn't have this... at least what was made before the Copenhagen Declaration was made back in 2018 without me mentioning the paragraphs. But I would like to come back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161410	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Andersen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161430	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate here today. I would like to start by saying to Mrs Rosa Lund that, since the ringtone cannot be removed, Mrs Rosa Lund could at least choose another one, so we got a little more beard out of it. I have a few good ones that you can have if it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161446	You don't use direct charges, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161449	I'm sorry. I would also like to thank all the rapporteurs and the Minister for an exciting debate. When the law on the ban on begging was passed, we were of course involved, firstly because the Minister for Justice was then called Søren Pape Poulsen and, moreover, the proposal came from the Ministry of Justice, and secondly because it was necessary and it is still gone. After all, we are currently discussing all sorts of other security-building measures and perhaps in fact avoiding insecurity-building things in public space. That is why, of course, we are also pleased that today a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is still supporting the principle of restricting the ability of foreign beggars and potential sponsors to create the insecurity-building state which we almost all want to stop. I must also admit that I am a little saddened when several rapporteurs in this Chamber make it sound as if we have a system in Denmark, where we are now going further down a road where we are not doing enough for vulnerable and vulnerable citizens in Denmark, because I do not think that is true. I come from a municipality where we also have homeless people and where we have actually launched a rather large and comprehensive strategy to help those at risk, and I actually think that as a society in Denmark we should be very proud that there is probably no society in the world that does more for the very most vulnerable and vulnerable than we do. This is also something that the countries around the world are looking very much in our direction because of. So we shouldn't also agree that this change and this sharpening of punishment back from 2017 were clearly about a large number of foreign beggars staying in places and at stations and especially in the metropolitan area and creating an insecure situation there, and therefore they made the law here. There is no doubt that there are some fundamental differences in the House about the law as a whole, and we just want to maintain that we are super happy that there is still a large and broad majority, which has even grown a little larger, because of the fact that new citizens have arrived, who are continuing to work for the existence of this law. We also have full confidence that the Ministry of Justice's note is adequate for us to be able to measure up to this, so that we support the adoption text, for which so far there is a majority, and which was read out by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161706	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527161725	In 1992 a majority in the Folketing incorporated the Convention on Human Rights into Danish law. This means, as has already been mentioned, that the Danish authorities must comply with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. In a number of important areas this has had far-reaching consequences for the freedom and security of the Danes, not least in relation to our ability to get rid of criminal foreigners. One of several crazy cases from the European Court of Human Rights is the Lacatus judgment mentioned. How can a society legislate against insecure begging if the European Court of Human Rights considers that a defence of begging is the right to respect for the privacy of the beggar? That just doesn't make any sense. It is close to being as absurd as the Jansen judgment against Norway. Here, the European Court of Human Rights maintained that a mother had the right to associate with her daughter in a home of violence, neglect and neglect, after her daughter had been mistreated to a degree so that she had suffered developmental damage. The Court of Human Rights considered that the mother's right to influence her daughter with her ethnic Roma identity was above her daughter's right to be deprived of neglect. It is not just absurd, it is inhumane. Of course, such an extremist interpretation of human rights should not be subjugated. In Denmark, it is the Danish people who have to decide the legislation. If international conventions prevent this with unreasonable consequences, they must be denounced or renounced by giving priority to Danish law over conventions. Today, insecurity-building begging is banned in Denmark. As mentioned earlier, the rules were tightened in 2017 with a change in the penal code after a period of major problems with particularly foreign insecurity-building begging. Last year we then removed the sunset clause, which was originally part of the law. The sharpening of the penal code on begging means, among other things, that insecurity-building begging is punished with unconditional imprisonment without prior notice if it is committed in a pedestrian street, at stations, in or at supermarkets or in public transport. In addition, it is possible under the legislation to grant unconditional prison sentences of up to 6 months, fines and expulsions from Denmark. Since the criminal code was tightened in 2017, the problems of insecure begging have been reduced, and that is good. Denmark should not be plagued by insecure begging, and we should in no way be subject to judges in Strasbourg who will never notice the consequences of the possible relaxation of legislation, such as the judgment against Switzerland before the European Court of Human Rights. That is why we in the New Citizens' Party support the large political majority in favour of maintaining a consistent and responsible policy against insecurity-building begging. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527162054	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next thing to speak is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527162118	Thank you for the debate. Let me make a few comments on some of the speeches that have been made. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt asked: What do we do from here? It is really a revival of the debate we had yesterday or two days ago, at least this week, so it is within the reasonable. One of the things we mentioned on that occasion was the importance of third-party contributions, in which we must of course note that third-party submissions made by Denmark to a much greater extent than we have done in the past and, as we also call on other countries to do, have an impact on the interpretation of the European Court of Human Rights. We also explained on that occasion that there are actually cases in at least one case, namely from May last year when explicit reference is made to third party submissions. We were also talking about the more general picture: the process that has taken place in recent years, culminating so far in the Copenhagen Declaration of 2018, which, however, is hardly the last step, but which addresses the insecurity felt by the Member States by the way the Court of Justice has interpreted. I think that's lasting. The political tool is within the legal framework, and the legal tools in the legal framework are, I think, the right thing to do. A few questions have been raised, and the question of the risk of the process has been discussed a great deal. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt asked: what is the risk of the process if it is to be quantified? Some also referred to the regulation of logging that we are also working on. In this context there is talk of a significant process risk, whereas in this case there is talk of a process risk. But it is clear that it is difficult to quantify the risk, and why is it? This is because we are dealing with a court that is more unpredictable in its interpretation style than Danish courts are. That is, of course, what is involved in the way we interpret, namely the dynamic interpretation style, which unfortunately also serves the European Court of Justice. There is, of course, an element of unpredictability. Therefore, it is difficult to quantify it. Finally, to the very relevant one, I think, and also down to the ground view, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen advocated that it is difficult to find a lawyer who would say this is how it is. It will always be: it is probably most likely, given by the circumstances or other formulations which bleed up on the very absolute. That is what we, who are lawyers, are being trained for. Of course we do, because there's this element, that it's not exact science, that there can't be two lines below it and we're living in a dynamic world where things can change. I therefore believe that what we really need to do, if we want to quantify the risk of the process, is to take the note made by the State and Human Rights Office in the Ministry of Justice and look up on page 23, where the conclusion is at the bottom. I read out: "Together there are a number of differences between the Danish and Swiss bans on begging. On the one hand, section 197 of the Penal Code seems more flexible than the absolute ban in the Geneva Canton. On the other hand, the provision only allows for the punishment of liberty, which, according to processing and practice, is measured as a starting point respectively. 7 and 14 days in jail. These differences in comparison with the above-mentioned material defects, including its vague and unclear instructions in relation to which modifications to an absolute and general ban on sufficient begging, speaks and then it follows from the Ministry of Justice's assessment that the judgment in Lacatus v. Switzerland does not require amendment of Article 197 of the Penal Code prohibiting begging. It is therefore the main conclusion that the criminal code should not be amended. It should be noted, however, that it must be assumed that there will be a risk that Denmark will lose any future case at EMD on the compatibility of Article 197 of the Penal Code if such a case is brought. I really think you have to stick to this. A question was also raised as to whether this is on the edge of the understanding paper. I think this really is an interesting question, because it is a question of how international cooperation is actually perceived. For what is stated in our understanding paper is that we will be vigilant about international conventions, but what is the best way of looking at them? Is this done by saying that we must ensure that the things we do have democratic legitimacy and by insisting on a continuous debate? Or is it done by turning a blind eye and not acting out the dynamics that are playing out? In other words, should we not be able to discuss international cooperation? In this way I really think that in this case I am much closer to loyally following the paper of understanding than the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party. Then there was mr. Kristian Hegaard, who is unfortunately not here at the moment, but I still think I should comment on it. He said that the wording of the text of the adoption of a ban on begging goes on an absolute ban. It's not. The Danish regulation is precisely such that there is no absolute ban. On the one hand, a warning must be given and, on the other hand, there is the possibility of the penalty being abolished. Finally, and this is also a bit of a procurator's knife, Mr. Kristian Hegaard to read all the sentences, for what it says is that the Folketing considers that the ban on begging is necessary to ensure public order. Why is it important to read it all out? It is because the European Court of Human Rights, in exactly the same judgment that we are talking about now, confirms that interventions against begging can also constitute legitimate purposes, such as: could be public order. In this way, the text of adoption is put in a completely different perspective. I think that is what I need to comment on in the first place. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527162822	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There is no brief comment, Mr President, why we are allowing for a rounding-off by the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Morten Messerschmidt. I'm gonna have to ask the Minister of Justice to put everything in order. The Minister of Justice I have both been ill and vaccinated, so it can't be much disease I give from me. But I respect the rules of order). When you have both been ill, you have been vaccinated and to an alcoholic speaking chair we welcome Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527162907	Thank you. I am not going to prolong the debate further, just thank you for the commitments that have been made, among other things. from the Minister to handle both the specific case but also be vigilant in relation to future cases. There is no doubt that this judgment, like others, will do so, that both the people who feel they can get a privileged legal status by going to the courts, that is, by going that way, but also the army of lawyers who are always available to promote the international law, as it is called, even though there is more injustice than the right of it in my optics will try to challenge it here. I am equally pleased that such a broad majority in the Danish Parliament has been able to come together on this text of adoption and, in fact, that we got the left out and made clear what the alternative is, if you listen to them. This applies, on the one hand, to who is now on the phone when you take it, and, on the other hand, to the advice you have to follow, and, on the other hand, to the very, very bizarre view of how to get begging, which is increasingly organized and which is behind it. So I expect and hope that the Minister will include the circle of parties that have come together in a proposal for adoption here, if any news arises, so that we can resolve it in the same mood and good tone as the debate has taken place here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527163031	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday, 1 June 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527163047	The debate is open and we will start by giving the floor to the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527163104	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the SF for having tabled the motion for a resolution, which is basically based on a desire to improve the conditions under which public employees are free to express themselves. The government fully shares the ambition to work to promote the freedom of expression of public employees, and we have also given a hand in understanding paper with the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten. It is important to me that public servants who have a particular knowledge or experience in their subject areas feel secure by taking advantage of their freedom of expression and contributing to the public debate. Legally, the matter is fairly clear. Public employees have extensive freedom of expression and, on their own behalf, they can participate in the public debate and express personal opinions and opinions if they merely make it clear that they are speaking on their own behalf and not on behalf of the Authority. In other words, only the limit is that one should not break one's obligation of professional secrecy and, moreover, one should not speak in a peace and defamational manner by making defamation or by expressing itself unfairly grossly or making manifestly incorrect information about essential matters within its own sphere of activity. So in principle the possibilities are good and great, but studies have shown for a number of years that there are many public employees who would actually like to express themselves but who do not yet avail themselves of the right to do so. For example: According to a study carried out by the Freedom of Movement Commission, 29 per cent. of public employees have experienced critical conditions in the workplace, which they think it would be relevant for the public to know, but that is only 19 per cent. Of the 29 per cent who have actually complained about the critical conditions in the public sector. These are also figures to which the SF refers in its comments on the proposal, and we fully agree that this is not satisfactory. The question then is: How do we best do something about it? The SF proposes to regulate the freedom of expression of public employees. If we look at what the Commission on Freedom of Movement said in its report of last year, we can see that the Commission was divided here. On the one hand, the majority considered that a legal act would send an important and valuable signal of support to public employees and provide a better overview of the rules. On the other hand, the minority found, if it is said to be somewhat simplified, that culture in particular and not the content of the rules is the thing that is a barrier, and therefore the rules must be tightened up to the managers and better informed the employees of the possibilities of expressing themselves, because they are in fact already present. A similar difference of opinion can also be found in the report by the Committee on the Freedom of expression of public employees and whistleblower schemes back from 2015, with the difference that the majority did not then recommend a legal basis. It is probably a very good idea that there is hardly such a snapshot solution or a real solution. Various attempts have been made, and in 2016, for example, they were made. a new publication of the Guide on the freedom of expression of public servants, together with an invitation to discuss the subject locally, and, most recently, on 14 April this year, I tabled a bill for a so-called whistleblower law, which will, in particular, implement the whistleblower directive and which I am struggling with at the Committee on Legal Affairs these very days. The bill will, of course, include: And we have also now launched new measures to strengthen the ability of employees to provide information on such serious and illegal matters in this case. However, I do not believe that there are any snapshot solutions and, as I said, we can see that the measures taken so far to strengthen the freedom of expression of public employees have not brought us to the end and, as I have mentioned, even among experts there are divided opinions on how we achieve the common objective of promoting the freedom of expression of public employees. That is why I believe that we need to give ourselves the opportunity to consider carefully what measures are right and, at the same time, I recognise that it is important to be open to new approaches, and I would say to the SF that transparency includes the possibility of legalisation. Therefore, I would like to invite you to political discussions on how we can translate the ambition of the paper of understanding to promote the freedom of expression of public employees. As far as further work is concerned, we will, of course, have to involve the social partners, as is the case in the Danish labour market. It will also help us hopefully find solutions that will actually work. Realistically, and just in order to reconcile expectations, it will be difficult to achieve everything, including taking concrete action, in this calendar year, and I therefore propose that we start the political discussions after the summer break, that we put in place a plan that allows time to listen to the views of relevant stakeholders. So, for rounding, I would say that the SF raises an important issue and there is every reason to acknowledge and praise it. In the paper of understanding, we have given each other hands on the need to promote the freedom of expression of public employees. I think we should take the time to find the right measures, and that is why I do not think it would be right for me to commit myself on a stand-by basis to table legislative proposals such as the one outlined in the motion for a resolution during the current calendar year. However, we agree with the ambition and I look forward to discussing how we fulfil it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527163732	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527163736	Thank you. I choose to take a very positive view of the fact that the Minister is at least saying that this is something we need to look at, and then I can tell you that we actually had the trade unions in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and that it is exactly their proposal that lies here. But of course they must be involved. Does the Minister agree with the questioner that legislating can send a signal to both employers and employees that it is not only legal to express itself, but that we actually want it, that we need the public employees' voices? That is the only way we can find out that some of the initiatives we are putting into the sea may not be good. It may be discussions about resources at a workplace, it may be the case of Else, which was unveiled by TV 2, but where it might have been better that there were some employees who had liked to talk about working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527163840	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527163841	I agree with that. You can legislate to send a signal, but I think, if you choose to use the legislative tool, you must also have some other motives than just sending a signal. Because if you only legislate to send a signal and then you do not get there that the signal works, then you have to legislate even harder. This is a problem which we have sometimes discussed in connection with, for example. with punishments. If you make punishments just to send a signal, you run the risk of being in a situation where you have to see that the type of crime in question is continuing and that you will then have to increase the penalty more. So I am not saying that this is not the right way to go, but I am just saying that one should be careful not to legislate only to send a signal. On the other hand, there is also the correctness of the fact that legislation is a very, very potent tool if you want to make a cultural impact, and that is also why I say that I am, in fact, open to looking at whether this is the right way to go. But I just think there are some circumstances that call for some reflections on whether legislation is now the right tool in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527163948	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527163949	Yeah, I guess the Justice Minister isn't avoiding using signal laws in many other contexts, I don't think that's a secret. So of course it also matters that there is a legal framework here. But I would like to know whether the Minister, when he now thinks that we should have a whistleblower system where there must be both protection and compensation, if it is that you are subjected to reprisals afterwards, does not think that we should also introduce this when it comes to public servants who use their legal freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164028	I am not easily offended by that, if you do what I do and I acknowledge it too, and that is also what I said, that sending a signal with the legislation can be important. But I'd just like to arrest this government for serving itself on signal law alone. We don't. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, it is one of the things that relates to how to make sure that this legislation will work if it is legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164101	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164104	I would also just like to acknowledge that, after the summer break, the Minister intends to convene discussions on extending the freedom of expression of public servants. The Radical Left also appreciates this very much, because public employees have an enormous amount of knowledge about the functions and the great work they have around them. And it was a shame to see the case that was in the municipality of Esbjerg for approx. A year and a half ago, when there was a director who at a seminar specifically said that as an employee in that municipality you were not allowed to talk to the press. Does the Minister not agree that such a situation as this could be quite obvious to have included in a regulation, that is to say, those specific orders in relation to expressing their opinion? This is certainly something that can be quite easy to prove and something where you say that there is really a need to take action.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164159	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164201	Well, the way the case is presented here, I think it is self-evident, and it is not to talk the problem down. But I think there will be some time between that somebody actually stands up and tells people not to speak up. This is not the same as the fact that it does not happen and, of course, it must also be possible to accommodate it by the regulation we might move into or the way we choose to deal with this problem. I think, in fact, that the most important thing is that public servants become aware of the possibility and that they serve the opportunity. This is more important than focusing on something that, after all, I would assume is not unimportant, but a relatively marginal problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164246	Here you go, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164248	Yes, because I believe that the example I just mentioned is probably the obvious example of where it has not gone by the book. But the less obvious examples, where it is difficult, are, of course, if there are employees who are reluctant to use their freedom of expression for the sake of their concern about being transferred, or they feel that no one will eat with them in the canteen or something, and they are thus subjected to some kind of pressure. But does the Minister not also agree that even those cases which are not so obvious are equally important? Because that is what can restrict the freedom of expression of public employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164322	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164324	Indeed, and at least one of the examples mentioned now, it is perhaps extremely difficult to legislate on, in other words, the fact that anyone who has spoken critically about his workplace is entitled to the others having lunch with him. It will probably be a little hard to implement in the legislation, and I think that illustrates just the issue we are in: whether legislation is the right tool or how to actually make the cultural impact that is needed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164354	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, also from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164420	Thank you. Public employees are a huge resource for our country. Without a strong public sector, we did not have a strong community and a strong business community. Therefore, public servants are some that we should appreciate and appreciate and also safeguard. And there is increasing pressure on our civil servants at the moment. There are increasing demands for access to the file we dealt with this last week compared to the employees we have in, for example. Criminal Services and the police. There are people trying to get their name and address to harass them. There is pressure on public employees when they make themselves known on social media and in this way can end up in the public mouth. In this way, it is not without cost when you, as a public employee or as a professional, participate in the public debate on one or the other platform. That is why this resolution is also relevant, because we are looking at how we protect the rights of public employees and the opportunity to express ourselves. It is not without dilemmas to be employed, for example. an employee of the Danish Tax Authority or as a teacher or as a sosu. This can lead to a difficult balance, in other words, to having to participate with your own views, while at the same time, of course, taking responsibility for the job you are part of or the authority you are employed in. For when one expresses oneself, it will all be taken down for some as a whole or in part an expression of the authority or place of work of which one is a part. The pressure that public servants are experiencing must be shielded from them to some extent, and that is also why, in the understanding paper that the government has produced together with the parties of understanding, we have it as one of the tasks, namely to protect the ability of public employees to express themselves. That is why it is equally important that this is one of the things we are going to tackle when we get to the other side of the summer break. That is why this debate is a good opportunity to confirm each other that it is an important and important task. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164700	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so we would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur and welcome a fresh voice for Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527164723	Thank you. The freedom of expression of public servants is governed by Article 77 of the Constitution and Article 10 of the Convention on Human Rights. There is freedom of expression and it enjoys protection according to those rules. The protection of the freedom of expression of public employees in general only applies if they express themselves as a private individual. If you are acting in the name of the goose-eye company, the company can of course set out detailed guidelines, as well as rules on professional secrecy and libel and other matters which must in any case be respected. If the public employee's statements have been legal, then they cannot form the basis for reprisals of any kind, even so-called negative management reactions. That's the way it is today. There is already protection, and that is also the conclusion reached by the Freedom of Movement Commission. It even went so far as to say that there was a fine balance. But at the same time, I must admit that not all public servants are equally aware of this. The study contained in the proposal shows this, too, and that is why, in the opinion of the Left, we must, of course, fly it here in some way. And the only question is how it's gonna happen. Perhaps, like the Minister for Justice, I would like it to be combined with the whistleblower scheme and not as a genuinely independent measure. It is not enough just to say that we need a system of this nature. So we also have to look at what it looks like. We have something we can look for, such as the Financial Business Act, §75. Well, there's one of them. The second part of the proposal deals with the reversal of the burden of proof, and in this respect I think I must take a slightly greater reservation than with the first part. For the reverse burden of proof has been referred to in the report on freedom of expression for public employees, i.e. on whistleblower schemes, page 35. I can quickly quote from there. There you say something about the reversal of the burden of proof. This is what we already have in the equal treatment law on maternity leave. It is, of course, that if a dismissal has taken place during the employee's pregnancy, yes, then we reverse the burden of proof, and then it is the employer who has the burden of proof. In addition, it is said that this is very good in this legislation, but if we are to transfer it in general to what we are talking about here today, then there are at least a few comments that are relevant. It is said: In comparison with this, the question of the content of speech in relation to, in particular, oral statements may be somewhat more difficult to determine. In addition, the extent of the temporal link between the expression of expression and the actual reaction to employment law in practice may be quite long, since a provision corresponding to Article 16 of the Equal Treatment Act in the field of freedom of expression will in principle be updated, as long as the employee has made a critical statement at some later stage in his perhaps long term employment period. Against this background, the Committee expresses its reservations. The essence is to compare it with the legislation governing maternity leave and the reversal of the burden of proof there, but it is not so difficult to find out when you are on maternity leave, to put it plainly. It may be a little more difficult if you have made a critical statement now and then be dismissed in 2 years or in 4 years or in 10 years. Does that expression have anything to do with the dismissal? It is a little more difficult to fix here. So summa summarum I would like to thank the SF for taking up the proposal and the subject here and saying, as the Minister for Justice also said, that we are also taking a positive view of it. We're not ready to vote for this. The social partners must be involved. There must be political discussions. We need to find the right measures, the right wordings. Against this backdrop, however, we can support greater attention being paid to freedom of expression by public servants.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527165200	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527165204	Thank you. It is a little unclear to me whether the Left will follow the recommendation of the Freedom of Freedom Commission to regulate the freedom of expression of public employees. Will the Left be a part of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527165220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527165220-2	Thank you. That depends on what the law in question should say. At any rate, I can go so far as to say that we certainly do not object to the fact that it is becoming more clear to the public that there is freedom of expression. It is not clear today, even according to what the proposal says. If it is to be written into a law and in what law and with what text, I will not stand here and take a stand on it, but I can at least say that we will make a positive contribution to the fact that it is going to be quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527165251	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527165252	That sounds really good, because then there is a starting point in being able to talk further about the matter. I understand, then, that the Left is not so much for the reversal of the burden of proof, but could the Left perhaps be concerned with the burden of proof? Because what is the challenge is that the workers who are subjected to reprisals have enormous difficulty in proving that it is actually about statements that they have legally made. In other words, there are many ways of responding to it can be transfer, or that you no longer get the exciting tasks etc. And it's just really, really hard to prove. So perhaps the Left could be tempted to create a split burden of proof instead? That is actually what the trade unions recommended.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527165341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527165343	Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has a quite excellent quality when you have 24 seconds left, you get a question that is quite comprehensive to answer. But if I am to be fairly brief, I must say that we will not rule that out, but Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt will not be much wiser. We must therefore have a more thorough study of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527165407	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome, sir. Morten Messerskommentar was fresh and well laid out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527165424	Thank you, President-in-Office. Denmark is one of the countries known in the world for its wide degree of freedom of expression. This is something we pride ourselves on, and it is something we all uphold, despite the fact that there is no mention anywhere in Danish legislation that we have any freedom of expression. It's paradoxical. The only thing that is written in the Constitution is that the Folketing can narrow it in almost every respect, and legislators have done so. So our tradition is that we write about where freedom of expression has its limitations... the Marketing Act and elsewhere... so what you can't say, but we don't have a tradition of having to register by law that you can say something. That is why I have such a methodical reservation in relation to what the majority of the Commission on Freedom of expression arrives at when it wants to emphasise the freedom of expression of public employees. It is not because I disagree in such a material way, because it is essential and it can also be in private jobs, that is to say that we are aware of it and that, when it is needed, we dare to make ourselves aware of what is a view or experience, whatever it may be, in relation to the fact that we are simply a constructive worker who wants to promote, for example. the working environment or productivity, whatever it may be, at the workplace concerned. But I simply cannot understand what the consequence will be if you follow the recommendation here and directly write in that there is this right. Do you begin to move toward a duty of expression? Or where is the material demarcation? As I have said, we think that the cases mentioned by the SF call for something to happen, but whether it is for the employer and the employee to agree on how to make it clear to the employees that there is not just an option, but a right, or whether it is to follow the attitude that the SF has chosen here with legislation, we are not ready. In relation to the procedural rules, that is to say the burden of proof, I and we have the basic point of being very careful to reverse the burden of proof. That changes, of course, what can be said, the power ratio in a trial and therefore also the incentives for who brings cases, etc., when you move into pre-sumption liability and reverse the burden of proof. There is certainly something in favour. In other words, some of the cases we have seen where, for fear of being dismissed, people have refrained from saying anything that had served a good purpose, are of course in favour of strengthening the legal position of the employee. But there may also be things that speak in the other direction. So I really welcome the fact that the Socialist People's Party is putting forward this proposal and opening this debate. I sincerely hope that this is a debate that does not stop with the parliamentary debate here today, but is precisely a debate that can continue, where we can hopefully also find the right steps with input from outside to ensure what I think we all want to do. But to promise that we will vote in favour of this at a possible second reading, I cannot, as things stand right now. There are simply too many uncertainties which we must at least be sure of before we get there. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527165820	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore welcome Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527165836	Thank you for the floor. Public employees do an amazing job every day. They have a great deal of knowledge about the work they each have. This applies to both those who work with people and those who work with other important functions and tasks. They have a great deal of knowledge about this, and the fact that they contribute to the debate and tell their version of where they are is very important for the development of Denmark. Public employees' freedom of expression means that they can participate in the public debate and express personal opinions and views. You can also express critical views if you wish, but the protection does not apply when you speak on behalf of an authority. It is instead the management who decides who has to speak and what has to be said. In addition, the Ministry of Justice also has a guide on the freedom of expression of public employees. But what is then the striking question is whether that is enough. Are we going any further? The Radical Left believes so. That is why we are glad that the understanding paper also states that the government must work to promote freedom of expression for public employees, so that freedom of expression can be used within applicable limits without fear of direct or indirect negative reactions from management. And the very distinction between direct and indirect negative reactions also shows something about the complexity that may be in this area. The direct reaction, and the very easy one, could be this case from the municipality of Esbjerg, which the Ombudsman has also given opinions on where there was a seminar some 11⁄2 years ago, where a director in this connection had a slide in his powerpoint show, where it stated that employees in the municipality were not allowed to speak out. And it is certainly a type of example that will be quite easy to regulate and where it is needed. The hard cases, on the other hand, will consist of what might have to do with indirect negative reactions from a management. This is where there can be a transfer to other tasks where you as an employee do not want to eat with the person in the cafeteria, or what else you can indirectly suffer from. And that is why this motion for a resolution proposes, among other things, a reversal of the burden of proof. Normally, when we discuss the reversal of the burden of proof, it is not always legal to say that this is exactly what we have to do. Because it also gives some other complexes in terms of legal status, etc. However, it is also not unknown in the labour market that one has some sort of reversal of the burden of proof, in which it is said that if some indications have been expressed which might suggest that something has happened it could often be a discrimination • then it is incumbent on some to demonstrate that the discrimination has not been unjustified. However, in view of the fact that it has now been called for, or at least signalled, that a debate will be called for after the summer break, the Radical Left would like to sign for it very positively. We go constructively into this and thank the Minister of Justice for inviting us from the platform to do so, and we look forward to it. That is why we will probably not be supporting the resolution here because there is now a process for how it can look, and that is first and foremost what is important for the Radical Left. Because in this way, we can and must strengthen the freedom of expression of public employees. It is important to get their contribution to the debate. They have professional skills, they are closest to important tasks, and so we must invite them even further into the debate, and that is what we look forward to doing with the discussions that have been invited to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527170305	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments. This will enable us to prepare Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten to take the floor. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527170328	First of all, I would like to thank the SF for presenting this extremely important resolution. We have discussed freedom of expression many times in this parliamentary year, we have discussed public law, and I do not really believe that there has been one of the times when I myself have not touched on the freedom of expression of public employees. Because it is a problem when a right exists only formally and not actually. And we know from studies and from the Freedom of expression commission that this important right of employees to express themselves publicly is not a right, especially many public servants feel safe to use. And that is a democratic problem, we believe in the Enhedslisten. Unfortunately, we have come into a situation where it has become more difficult for public employees to come forward when something wrong is going on in our system, and at the same time we have made it close to impossible for the press to discover when things are not as they should be. When we were discussing a bill on whistleblower schemes a little while ago, and as we are currently discussing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I could see in my preparations that 18 municipalities had already set up such schemes, so that employees could just report if there was something wrong with the workplace. And even though I think it is good that whistleblower schemes are being set up, we should preferably be in a place where it was not necessary at all and where you were comfortable yelling out loud by yourself when something is not as it should be. You have to be able to tell what is wrong at your workplace, and you have to be able to do that both internally and externally if you think it will have an effect. Many people refuse to do so today because they fear employment law reprisals and, unfortunately, we also know that this can be a consequence. We know that people are being sidelined by promotion, that they are being transferred, and we know that these things are happening because the employee has dared to shout. After all, we have seen examples, which we have also discussed here in the Parliamentary Chamber before, of police officers who take part in debates on Facebook as individuals and who have experienced demotions or relocations because someone thinks it is legitimate to contact the employer of the public employee. We have heard that officials in the Ministry of Justice get written in their staff file that they are Islamists and terrorists simply because they have participated, in their spare time, in the public debate, in a proper manner, like all of us. As our Minister of Justice has said in an answer, police staff, like other public servants, have extensive freedom of expression. This means that, as a rule, they cannot be dismissed, downgraded or otherwise faced with negative consequences on the job due to statements they make on their own behalf. I think that is wisely said by our Minister for Justice, and I very much agree with that quote. However, when it happens in practice that people are transferred and that you are faced with negative consequences when you speak, we have a system that does not work, and we must have done so. And that is why we are pleased that the SF is tabling this motion for a resolution, and so we are very pleased that today the Minister for Justice has almost invited us to negotiations after the summer recess. We very much welcome this in the Enhedslisten and look forward to taking an active part in it. But having said that, we cannot see in the Enhedslist why we could not just adopt the SF^'s resolution today, and that is why we wholeheartedly support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527170732	Thank you, Mrs. Rosa Lund. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Mads Andersen from the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527170753	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank you to the SF for the suggestion. First of all, in the Conservative People's Party, we would like to recognise that there may be cases in which employees feel that they cannot express themselves as they please. It has come to light before, and there have been cases where it was quite clear. As a society, we always need some openness about the things we meet citizens and businesses with, and it is absolutely crucial that we always have an ambition in the public sector to do better and look inwards and be self-critical about our own efforts. And here both employees and citizens and managers are an important element in ensuring that we always provide the best possible public service for the many funds we spend in the public sector. And that is why the freedom of expression of each employee is very, very important. However, there are also a few men's that I would just like to mention. When, like me, you have come to a great deal in the municipal political landscape for many years, this issue can at least be difficult to recognise where I come from. If something is illegal or really critical, we as a society must, of course, expect the employee to shout, and there must be room for that too. I also think that in Denmark we have a society where there is plenty of room for employees to express their views on political beliefs, management, general dissatisfaction. And without taking all private owners of companies in Denmark as income for it, my guess is that if nothing else can sit out there and think if it was an employee of a private company who spoke a criticism of e.g. the company or the mission the company was working for, or a manager, you might expect that there was at least some kind of conversation between the employees and the manager. There must, of course, be freedom of expression in our private companies, and there is also the right to do so, and of course there must also be freedom of expression in the public service. And in cases where this is not the case, we must also expect it to be resolved. In fact, this is also about openness and the individual employee's free right to speak, also about management, that is to say that the manager and the employee have some agreements about precisely the openness that is at work, and of course also in a free combination with loyalty. We fully understand the intention of the proposal. And with regard to the whistleblower scheme, I myself come from one of the 18 municipalities mentioned by Mrs Rosa Lund, which has launched the whistleblower scheme locally, even a few years ago. Now Mrs Rosa Lund is not here, but I would like to give Mrs Rosa Lund the credit that I actually even think it was on the basis of the Enhedslisten's proposal, and we supported it. And it's important in relation to this whole whistleblower discussion that we have right now, to listen to some of the municipalities that have actually been working on it for a while, so we hit as much spot as possible in the first chop. I think, at least as I remember it, that this arrangement, for example. in Køge Municipality, has been used once in the first year. There, of course, we must assess whether it is an expression that people do not dare to say anything or whether there is no need. And there I think there is good reason to draw some lessons from those municipalities. I do not want to interfere in the understanding paper between the government and the support parties. I could understand that there will be a debate on this at a later stage, and of course we will be constructive about it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527171104	You're welcome, sir. Mads Andersen. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527171110	I just want to know if the rapporteur does not think that there is a slight difference between private companies and the public sector. The public is owned by all of us, and there we surely have a very natural interest in knowing that things are going on properly. I am thinking, for example. on the Else case from Aarhus, which we all know and where it was completely wrong. I would have liked the employees to have talked about that culture, and that it was not TV 2 that was supposed to reveal it. But when no one tells me about these things, sometimes I think it's related to the fear of getting fired. So do we not have an interest, as taxpayers in this country, in public employees interfering in the public debate, and is it not true that that interest is a little different from what is happening in a private company? which can be exciting enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527171203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527171205	Thank you. Yes, of course there is a difference, and of course we have an interest as a society in the fact that there is open talk about the things that are happening around us in our public workplaces, at least those things that are not subject to professional secrecy. That's what I felt, too. I made that pretty clear. I said repeatedly, among other things. that the freedom of expression of individual employees is very, very important in our whole way of running the public, and that where were we if people did not have the courage to talk about such things as the Else case. So I think that is completely indisputable, so that of course there is a need for public servants to speak openly about it. My comparison and the parallel I drew was also really just to say that I am on the city council with several people who are public employees in the municipality of Køge while they are on the city council, and I really just think this shows how much our society can actually do in terms of the openness that exists, and that is a strength, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527171254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527171257	I assume that the rapporteur will support the whistleblower proposal, but I do not know. After all, there is protection and there is also compensation if you are unduly exposed to something. Does the rapporteur not think that it would be a natural extension of the fact that, as well as protecting and legalising the freedom of expression of public employees, it would also provide compensation for improper reprisals when using legal freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20210527171330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527171330-2	We are at least discussing the whistleblower system a great deal during these hours, almost while we are here, and now I heard the Minister say that this proposal as such is a degenerate of it, as well as having to be included in a discussion, and I would like to say that how it should be put into effect is worthy of discussion. And, as I also said, although we are not part of the paper of understanding, the way of life of the government, I think we will be invited to some discussions, and we will then participate constructively in them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527171401	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, so we thank Mr. Hans Andersen. And I would like to welcome Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527171423	Too many civil servants fail to express themselves out of fear of dismissal or other consequences for their recruitment. It has consequences. This means that there are critical conditions in the public sector which we do not know about and which are therefore allowed to continue unnecessarily for a long time. The case in Aarhus is one of them, and when you see the rocks from there, you can get the suspicion that it is a culture among some people who cannot see the problem in what they are doing, and then we are equal. However, the fear of public opinion being heard also means that, among many, there is a fear of engaging in political debate and thus democracy. And it is everything else just a large part of the population who is out there, who has his hand on the hot plate and who knows what is going on. Personally, I have experienced many members of New Citizens, who are public employees. They are case managers in the municipalities, they are school teachers and schoolteachers, they are employees in day care institutions, they are nurses, they are doctors who both tell what they are experiencing when it comes to dealing with immigrants and foreigners and the challenges it creates, but who also talk about what it creates of major complications for their ability to solve their task properly when they increasingly have to service middle managers and politicians rather than service citizens. If these people do not dare to engage in politics and take part in the public debate politically, it is also important for the people's mood to move in the right direction on an enlightened basis. And, of course, it is important for the individual employee, the participation of the individual citizen in democracy. So there is a definite need for a change in culture. However, if new legislation is the solution, we are in doubt by the new citizens. Today, as has already been said, the freedom of expression of public servants as individuals is already protected by the law and, as has already been said, there is the possibility that we clarify that legislation, which makes it clearer that it is indeed their right to live here. Another solution is, and we are discussing it, the whistleblower scheme. That legislation then has some other problems which make it difficult for New Citizens to support it, but in fact we think it is wise to create a whistleblower scheme that should be well functioning. Whatever the case, if a new legislation is to be adopted, it is important for us to find the right balance to strike a balance which not only guarantees the employee's right to express himself, but also guarantees the employer's right to dismiss employees, to transfer employees, etc., without it being said that it is now because they have engaged in the political debate. Because we do, many of us do, and if we introduce what the proposers, among others, do. In this respect, it is clear that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is an important step in the right direction. So we hope that if you go further on this track in relation to new legislation, you will focus on that balance. It should not be the case that the public should live with employees who are useless and impossible for their work, and they are also an example of the case in Aarhus where people are supposed to do something quite different. After all, they should not be protected in their posts by the employer providing evidence that it is not because they have expressed themselves in one direction or another. We understand from the Minister that the government is going to work on this, and we also think that this is an important area. We hope that further work looks at these balances and looks forward to seeing that work. But, unfortunately, as the motion for a resolution stands, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527171853	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no brief comments. I have not received any requests from the Liberal Alliance and the Christian Democrats to take part in the debate. That is why we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527171916	Thank you for the debate. It's nice to set, what can you say, a time limit on when we can talk about this. It's gonna be sometime after the summer break, and I think that's really good. And I wonder if there are some legal rapporteurs and a Minister of Justice in this Chamber who are delighted that this is the last SF motion for a resolution of the season. We should have actually submitted a report today on another transparency proposal, namely the whistle-blower arrangements, and I think we will be doing so in the near future. However, they must ensure that there is a channel so that you can turn in your concerns about illegal activities, whether you are a private or a public employee. We support this in the SF, because we know that it takes an extraordinary amount of courage to put your job at risk by going ahead with something where there may be unclean travel at the workplace. After all, there will now be concrete protection for those employees, and hopefully they will be able to find the courage to do so in the future. But with that proposal in mind, it would also be quite crazy not to legislate on the freedom of expression of public employees. We think it is clear that it is time for us to legislate, that public servants can also take part in the public debate, but not just that; we also have to make it clear that we want them to be really important votes on their working conditions, and when they interfere, we can also have a debate on the conditions for our elderly, for our children, for our vulnerable, and that is just really important in a democracy, because that is what makes it possible for us to adjust our efforts or to make them more effective or improve what we are doing now. The Whistleblower arrangements are fine for their purposes, but they are primarily about illegal matters. And when we think of the case of Else, the elderly lady who was treated very unworthy of us, we may not be involved in illegal acts, but we certainly need to discuss what we can do to correct them. And it would just have been nice if the employees could have taken that discussion instead of the relatives and TV 2 having to do it. But we know that it's hard to do in practice, especially if you feel dependent on your job... then you keep your mouth shut, you close your eyes, and then you don't say anything. After all, the Freedom of Speech Commission, which was set up by a majority of the previous government, recommends that we regulate the freedom of expression of public servants. There are, after all, numerous studies which have shown that public employees are reluctant to tell about conditions at their workplace. And the investigation carried out by the Freedom of Movement Commission shows that 29 per cent. of the public employees have experienced conditions at their workplace that they believe the public should know, but only less than a fifth have actually told about it. And I think that is a problem, because perhaps we are missing out on important knowledge in this way, and that is why we should follow the recommendations of the Commission. I also think that a legal act would send a very clear signal to employers and employees about what is going on, because now we have tried long enough with guidance, and it does not seem to help. The former Ombudsman also said in his very Ombudsman-like way between the lines of 2016, that legislation is appropriate, and I would just like to quote him. He said: as Ombudsman, I should not interfere with whether Parliament should legislate, but I note that we continue to see authorities that do not respect the freedom of expression of employees and that so far information efforts do not seem to have penetrated sufficiently. I also have a very fresh example from yesterday, when the Ombudsman of his own motion asked the municipality of Ærø for an account of their staff policy, because the staff policy emphasizes that the employees have limited freedom of expression for reasons of professional secrecy, loyalty, rules on decorum which are, after all, decent conduct, as well as consideration of the municipality's internal decision-making processes and operational capacity, and that the municipality's management itself interprets the rules in the event of doubt. This is probably not entirely in line with the rules on the freedom of expression for public employees. It assesses media lawyer Oluf Jørgensen, who is a specialist in the field. And I can understand if employees don't exactly want to twitch on that background, because if I read these sentences, I think I would also be seriously in doubt as to whether that was a good idea. At least I'd choose to keep my mouth shut to be safe. SF has, of course, put forward various proposals on the freedom of expression of public employees over many years, as has Enhedslisten. We have all been visited in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights by a number of trade unions which support the law, and I think we should listen to that. By the way, it is not long ago that Thomas Vesth, who was an investigator in the police department, was told not to interfere in the case of Scandinavian Star, where he acted as such a sort of expert in the newspaper. Fortunately, we who asked got a good answer, which was quite right, from the Minister for Justice that, thankfully, he was allowed to do so. But that means that the police themselves may not always be fully aware of the legislation. Let me conclude by explaining why it is that we need a law. We need a law because it provides legal protection for the individual, but also because we have to send this signal that we want people to interfere. And we just have to say that it doesn't happen in all cases like the one on Ærø, where something has actually been written down that shows an illegal practice. Many times the reactions are just subtle; then the one who interferes experiences being rebuked, reassigned, fired or less exciting tasks. And the individual should not be left entirely alone in proving that the reprisals are based on having used his legal freedom of expression. That is why we have to be compensated when we are exposed to reprisals, and I think there is good reason to find inspiration in the equal treatment law, where it is not the pregnant woman who has to prove that a dismissal has not occurred because one has become pregnant, but where it is the employer who has to prove that the dismissal is not due to the pregnancy. And that is why we have this proposal on the reversal of the burden of proof, in which case it will also be the employer who will have to prove that the reprisals are not due to the use of legal freedom of expression. We also need legislation, we think, because we are all owners of the public sector. This also means that we all have a legitimate desire to gain knowledge of the public sector situation, and we will only get that if there are employees who dare to interfere in the debate or shout if something is wrong. If the prison officers, for example... If the brutality of prisons is increasing or if our authorities fail in the area of data security, then it is very much in our interest as citizens to know it. And we just can't always settle for management's version. We also need legislation because we can see that too few people interfere, even if they have something at heart, and that among those who have refrained from interfering is in fact 46%, which indicates the fear of being dismissed as the cause. Those are significant figures, and that makes it clear very well why we need legislation. Then, of course, we need legislation, because we have agreed in the understanding paper that we have to do something. So I look forward to further discussions. I am confident after today's debate, and I am sure that we will be landing something that is good, after many, many years of this debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527172738	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527172742	Thank you. It was simply because, in my rapporteur's speech, I mentioned members of the New Citizens' Party who come to me and tell me about this problem and did not put their names on it. But thank you for mentioning Thomas Vesth, who is one of our members and has been so troubled by this. Just thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527172804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527172805	It was so little, and it ended well, because the Minister of Justice established with a seven-inch nail that there is freedom of expression, including for Thomas Vesth. But I have no doubt for a moment that this has had some serious consequences for him in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527172822	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, nor do I see any more who wish to speak. That is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If none of you object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210527172839	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's participation in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 28 May 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
