ParlaMint-DK_20211214125959	The meeting is open. May I begin by saying that the pandemic is spreading out there, and that is why we must take good care of each other here in the Folketing as well. We are faced with a series of votes over the coming week, and I therefore ask that, both when you come and leave the Parliamentary Chamber and other meeting rooms, you keep a good distance and use the opportunity to spritt at all, because, as I have said, we are in front of a rather intense period, and we must all help to look after each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214130038	We shall first give the floor to the Prime Minister for a statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214130045	Thank you for that, and I will also concentrate my speaking time today on corona, following on from the President of Parliament, because that is, of course, the most important thing right now. I have said this many times before, but the message has probably never been more important than it is today: get the third stick as quickly as possible. And for the families of children: I hope that you will get your children vaccinated the sooner, the better. It is the vaccines that are our strongest weapon against corona, which is why it is also gratifying that many Danes currently accept both first, second and third. Thanks to each one of you, each stick counts. It is very much the vaccines that are our way through this, and you are lifting a large part of the responsibility each of you. Thank you. The government, and unfortunately only a majority in the Danish Parliament, chose last week to follow the clear position of the Epidemi Commission on further measures to delay the spread of OMikron, break the infection chains and buy us time to get vaccinated as many as possible. Thank you to those parties that, in a difficult situation too, continue to take responsibility. The Health Authority has now brought forward the time of the third stick for anyone who is 40 years of age or older, so that we can get the vaccine 41⁄2 months after the second stick, and at the same time it increases the capacity of the authorities for the vaccination effort itself. This applies to regional vaccination centres, to several pharmacies and to a number of practitioners. Therefore, a direct message from all of us to all of you out there: If you are queued to book a time, please try the local pharmacy or your own practicing doctor as I did yesterday. There are also plenty of vaccine times. The aim of the authorities is to be able to vaccinate one million citizens a week as soon as possible. That's a lot of people, so the pace is high. And when we need a high pace, and when it's so urgent, it's one thing, and it's OMicron. The new corona variant is spreading at a rapid rate. Since last week, the total number of confirmed cases has increased thirteenfold since last week. The authorities therefore also expect that OMICRON will soon be the dominant variant and that daily levels of infection can quickly rise to over 10,000, i.e. daily levels of infection! This usually affects the elderly, the vulnerable and the vulnerable. More infected and more sick people are increasing the pressure on an already pressured health care system. So this is a serious situation we are in. The government and the authorities are following developments very closely and thank you for the fact that there is still a majority in the Danish Parliament who also takes responsibility, even though it has become a smaller majority than in the past, but thanks to you who lift the responsibility. The government has a full focus on dealing with the corona, but we are also continuing negotiations on reforms to make Denmark richer, greener and more skilled. Danish economy is healthy. We have an economy in top shape thanks to the decisions that have been taken and this year we have the prospect of the highest growth in 15 years. It's impressive in itself. Danish companies stand strong and there are more jobs than ever. The government has presented a concrete reform proposal which is estimated to increase structural employment by more than 10,000 people in 2025. With the reform proposal, the government proposes, among other things, that work effort and performance be accompanied. We will replace a subordinate logic with a 37-hour working logic for new arrivals and citizens with integration needs. We also propose to increase the maximum rate of unemployment benefit for the first few months in order to create a safer labour market. At the same time, we can see that many young people quickly enter jobs after completing their education, some may have even bought a job before their exam is completed, but unfortunately not all of them. We therefore need more young people to come in and use their skills in the labour market more quickly. We also propose abolishing pension set-off when your spouse takes an extra job. Finally, we propose spending 2.5 billion. kr. more to quality in education. These are some of the reform initiatives. On both sides of the Folketing, at least parts of the reform proposal have been welcomed. That is why, now that we have a financial law in place, I also hope, of course, that all parliamentary parties will enter into the negotiations constructively. Finally, I would like to thank you for a • Perhaps especially when the cameras are turned off • good and constructive and proper political cooperation across the many parties of the Folketing. We have achieved many broad, good political agreements, which make Denmark stronger, which make Denmark greener, and which make Denmark a fairer society that looks forward here of course a special thanks to SF, Radical Left and Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214130544	Thank you, Prime Minister. We'll start the party leader round. First, it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214130550	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by asking the Prime Minister a question about leadership. In my view, leadership is not about having or exercising power, it is about assuming responsibility. It's about taking the lead, taking the lead, getting out on the plank, sometimes alone. It's about sticking to the decisions you make. I have learned this in the hard way myself, both in the defence and in various management jobs in the private sector. It is you who have it, it is not the employees; you are the boss. You are when things go well, and so are when mistakes happen. You're actually special when mistakes happen. Then you can't just blame the employees for the decisions you've made. As a leader, you are left with responsibility for decisions taken. The arrow points to one place. So I really just want to ask the Prime Minister if the Prime Minister agrees with that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214130700	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214130702	I very, very much agree that responsibility must be assumed when you are a leader. I remember back to, for example. When we in Denmark had to make a really difficult decision on the killing of mink, the President of the Left supported the resolution and said verbatim that it is a necessary decision to take for the sake of the Danes' public health, so that of course it backs the Left. It did not take much time, so what has been said was rejected for other political reasons. There it is important to stand firm even when it is difficult, even when it blows, even when there are easy points to pick up on doing something other than what you might either intuitively or materially well know is right for the country. That is why it is good that there is a majority in Denmark that stands firm, even when it blows, even when it is unpopular. And we see it now, when there is a massive increase in infection with OMICRON, it is a really serious situation in Denmark, in Europe and in the world. We have some health authorities that make a very, very clear position from the Epidemic Commission, and I must then observe that we cannot even be sure that all parties in the Folketing will carry that responsibility any longer and ensure that a clear attitude from the health authorities is actually implemented. I find that regrettable. But of course I am delighted that there are a number of parties that, even when it blows, and when it comes to a price, still stand firm, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214130827	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214130829	Thank you for that answer. As Prime Minister, there is no way around it. You bear the responsibility and you bear the responsibility, whether you like it or not, and as the Prime Minister says, you bear the responsibility, whether it is popular or not. This also applies, of course, when you make a decision that turns out to be illegal, a decision to put all minks to death in Denmark, a decision that was made in the government's Coordination Committee, where the Prime Minister sits at the table end. A year ago, the Prime Minister of the media said this about that decision, and I quote: I am responsible for the coordination committee's decision. Does the Prime Minister continue to believe that it is the Prime Minister who is responsible for the coordination committee's decision to kill all minks in Denmark? a decision which turns out to be illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214130943	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214130944	The fact that the government is not made aware of the fact that there is no authority to take the decision is a very regrettable mistake, and it can be said that, unlike other governments, this government has recognised the error when it is brought to its attention and made contact with the Folketing, which I think is the right thing to do, and I am not going to enter into legal discussions. There's a Mink Commission working, but this government isn't going to change the rules of the Constitution on how the government works.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131015	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131016	I think that was a less clear answer. I fully agree that we are waiting for a statement from the investigating commission on all this, and I have the greatest respect for the fact that there is a commission working. But this isn't about law. My question isn't about law, my question is about leadership. It's about taking it on. What I am asking is whether the Prime Minister will take political responsibility for the decisions taken when the Prime Minister sits at the table. Does the Prime Minister believe that one can be a credible head of government in Denmark when one does not want to take responsibility for the decision to put down all mink in Denmark • the decision made by the government's coordination committee with the Prime Minister for the table end?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131111	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131112	The fact that the government was not informed that there was no legal basis is a clear error. But I and the government are still on the target of the decision that was taken. And we do, and I do, because it was a necessary and it was a real decision. It was a tough decision, it was a tough decision. However, speaking of the situation with Omikron and South Africa, if Denmark had at that time been unaware that a new variant of covid-19 was potentially under bloom in Denmark with disastrous consequences not only for the health and well-being of the Danes but also potentially for the world, it would not have been a real decision. And I guess that's also why the President of the Left actually supported the government in the resolution until speaking of leadership... the President of the Left came in a minority in his own group. You can't run a country like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131200	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. I'm gonna go tell Mr. Kim. Claus Hjort Frederiksen that it is not possible to speak during the party leader's round I can see that it has been requested. We move on to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131222	Thank you, President. And thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. One might almost say that in relation to corona, the Prime Minister's answer here most recently sounded as if the end justifies the means. So it was so important in terms of public health that we had to intervene and so on and that if there was a new corona variant going up, we had to act, and then we had to look at the funds, right? I was just thinking of yesterday's sentence and the fight against child bride, where it cannot be said in the same way, I understand that the end justifies the means. There we have to accept the rules of the game as they are, even if we really have a political objective that is so big and heartfelt that we want to actually fight for the rights of some girls. Therefore, I would like to devote my question to the Prime Minister today, how, in the light of yesterday's judgment, we will ensure equality before the law, because I assume that we agree on one thing, namely that there must be equality before the law. But the impeachment case against Mrs Inger Støjberg is the second impeachment case of 100 years. The latest was the one about Ninn-Hansen back in 1995. But it is not because there have been only two situations in the last 100 years when ministers have violated the law of ministerial responsibility. Ministers have done so many times, but in some situations the Folketing has thought that it would be ignored; in some situations a nose has been given; in some situations the Minister has resigned. In other words, now that the Prime Minister thinks that Mr. Mogens Jensen has a very great responsibility for the scandal of the illegally killed mink. Mogens Jensen didn't see for an impeachment? Some people might think it might be for him to be cleansed. Why doesn't he have to be impeached if there's to be equality before the law? He has resigned as minister, now sits here in the Parliamentary Chamber, serving his parliamentary salary, and he can probably at some point go back to the ministry because he has now taken a great deal of responsibility in relation to the minkskandalen. So Prime Minister: how do we ensure, in the light of yesterday's ruling, that there is real equality before the law when it comes to the violation of the law of ministerial responsibility by ministers?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131434	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131435	I have to arrest what was to be interpreted as a quote from yours, that the end justifies the means. I haven't said that at any time. I have actually said the opposite: there must of course be a legal basis for the decisions taken. When the government is brought to the attention and when the undersigned is made aware that there is no legal basis, I immediately write to the President of the Folketing, so that the Folketing can of course deal with that question. Moreover, it has now been stated that the Danish Parliament is aware of the problem before the Prime Minister became aware of it at the time. So any quotation that the end justifies the means must be on its own account, because it is simply not true that I should have expressed it, either today or at an earlier time, and I will not do so either.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131517	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131519	That is how the Prime Minister could so skilfully avoid answering my question. My question was: how will the Prime Minister ensure that there is equality before the law so that all ministers who violate the law of ministerial accountability are treated equally? That is not the case today. In 100 years two ministers will come to the Court of Justice and get the assessment from there, but there is a long list of ministers who have in various ways violated the law of ministerial accountability in addition, but received a different sentence in quotation marks, in some situations, by having to take a few years where you are not a minister, then later coming back as a minister again, and in the meantime you can sit here in the Parliament hall and on the taxpayer's account get your good remuneration, which we get as members of the parliament, because we are treated well, while other Members are voted on in the Court of Justice, i.e. two within 100 years, and then get a verdict there. How do we ensure equality before the law when it is really so arbitrary? The Court itself states yesterday in its judgment that, when the Folketing has decided to indict a minister for the performance of its duties, it is not for the Court to decide whether a political reaction would have been sufficient, the decision of the Folketing alone. It's in yesterday's verdict. That is why it is this Parliament that needs to find out how to ensure objectivity and how to ensure that ministers are treated equally.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131632	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131633	Firstly, it must be possible to have a dialogue on proper terms, so when you choose to quote the Prime Minister for something that the Prime Minister has not said, I have to change it so that the President of the Danish People's Party does not go out and say that when the Prime Minister does not contradict me, it must be because the Prime Minister agrees. I wish we could have a proper discussion so that we can argue for what we think rather than put other words in our mouths. That is why I am insisting that I should have said that the end justifies the means, because I have not said that at any time. As far as the Court of Justice is concerned, this is a matter for the Folketing, not for the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131706	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl with one last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131708	After all, it is crazy that the Prime Minister is now able to talk completely about twice. So, I ask again: how will the Prime Minister help to ensure that there is equality before the law? The Prime Minister is responsible for his ministers. We have a minister who has for the time being resigned because of the minkskandalen. Mogens Jensen has resigned as Minister. There is all sorts of talk during the hearing last Thursday, when the Prime Minister was in for hours, that it was the Minister for Food who was responsible for the fact that there was no legal basis for what was done. That is the responsibility of the ministry and hence of the minister. Good. So now there's been an illegal act, we know that. We know that the law of ministerial responsibility has been broken. Then the question is who is to blame. There is a minister who has resigned and, as the Prime Minister himself says, has the main responsibility. Then I just ask how we can ensure equality before the law in relation to Mrs Inger Støjberg, who has now been given 60 days of unconditional imprisonment. Mogens Jensen should be allowed to resign, as Mr. Morten Bødskov went off earlier after a distress lie to the Legal Affairs Committee and sat for some years here in the Parliament hall and is now the tax minister of the Prime Minister's own government. So the Prime Minister must assume responsibility for finding out how we can ensure equality before the law, so that ministers are treated equally when they violate the law of ministerial responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131821	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131822	In fact, the Danish system is quite simple: a minister can only be a minister if the Minister enjoys the confidence of the Danish Parliament, and when the Folketing had to come to the conclusion that a minister does not enjoy confidence, one cannot continue as a minister. And then I must emphasise the division of labour in our democracy. Court cases are not a matter for current governments, it is a matter for the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131843	The question is closed. Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. We move on to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214131852	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Prime Minister and, in fact, thanking the government for the continued efforts to keep Denmark running despite corona for almost 2 years. We all know that it is a crazy big challenge to have to deal with on top of what else is happening in Denmark. And I actually need to say this because it sometimes seems as we have become so used to Corona being here that we take for granted the handling of it and the enormous additional pressure it brings. For the truth is that it pushes everyone in our society, from government to school children, from officials in the Ministry of Health to the cleaning staff in our nursing home; nobody goes free. So thank you from here to all those who are fighting for our society, after all, still away is among one of the most open and functioning in the world. However, the new OMICron variant is expected to be able to infect more than 10,000 Danes a day within a very short period of time, as the Prime Minister said in his introduction. With this comes increased pressure on the beds and on our health care professionals. Our responsibility is, of course, primarily to protect the Danes from corona, but I do not think I am the only one here calling for a clear roadmap for the different scenarios that we look into, that is, for what we can expect, and that the Folketing will of course be consulted on what it should mean. That is why my first question to the Prime Minister will be very open. It's really about what we do if the most optimistic scenario, which is what we're working on right now, doesn't last. So what's the plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132029	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132031	I can say that if you are sitting and looking down the figures for the delta variant, which is now the old covid-19 variant, and for the OMicron variant right now we have two epidemics going on in Denmark and you are looking at the delta and the development of the delta, we were actually very, very good at thanks to the decisions that have been made and, of course, very much thanks to the Danes. It actually looked really, really nice. Many have been vaccinated, we are one of the only countries that still have an open society. Now there are some restrictions, but otherwise we have an open society. And when you look into the figures, there is actually a lot that suggests that we could have got through the winter with the delta variant roughly like the Denmark we see now, perhaps even with fewer restrictions. It is OMICRON that breaks things up, and it is not just here; it is not yet in the whole world, but at least in Europe and in a number of other countries. And I understand that you want clear scenarios and direct indicators. After all, we were much better prepared in this autumn than we have been able to be in the next two years, for good reason. A committee of experts has been set up, they have come up with recommendations, and we have followed them. We have an Epidemic Commission and its recommendations, and that is why at least some parties choose to follow those recommendations, and again: thank you for that. Because it is absolutely necessary that some parties take responsibility, especially when others do not want to. However, it is OMICRON which means that we are now in a completely new situation, and there I think the response of the authorities so far is the right one, namely that everyone over 40 years of age should have a third stick, because there is much evidence that the third stick is and provides good protection against OMICRON as well. And then we have to live with a few restrictions, especially as far as nightlife is concerned. So on me it seems that our authorities again in an unknown terrain advise us well. What matters is that we follow this politically. But with the new variant I dare not say where the world will be in a month's time I simply have no preconditions for being able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132239	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132241	Thank you for that answer. First of all, I think it is a good idea to roll out the third connector. I think many Danes welcome this and fortunately also accept it. However, I still hear the health authorities, not later than this morning Henrik Ullum, say very clearly that he is concerned. And I take this very seriously, since he is one of the greatest professional capabilities in this field. When I ask, it's also because Christmas is approaching, and it's a time that's important to all of us... our children, our families. It is also a season where we are many together for major events in the family and among friends, and therefore I have two concerns. One is that I am worried about a Christmas where many of our older fellow citizens are at risk of being left alone because the infection has exploded and where the trend of infection over Christmas means that our children will also not go to school in January. The second thing that worries people right now is that we look into a long winter when our older people become lonely, our children risk losing their social lives and the family are going to juggle with home schooling. I am deeply concerned about that. So now that we have this experience, will the Prime Minister shake hands with SF that we are using every means to contain the infection before considering long-term home schooling, limiting visits to the elderly and the like?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132357	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132359	I can at least say in relation to home school that none of us want that. We know it comes with a big price. And we have also looked each other in the eye and politically and said that this is what we do not want to do. Now it is one, I think, gentle model that has been chosen, because there is already a Christmas holiday. A number of students are sent home a few days before and a few days later. It's kind of gentle. But politically, for the sake of children, and also for the sake of the well-being of families with children, I agree that we must do what we can to avoid the closure of schools as we have seen before. I also have to say that we can handle more infection this winter than we could last winter, and than we could when we were in March 2020 it is soon for two years that we have now had to deal with this situation because we have been vaccinated. But it is also the vaccines that are crucial. A lot of evidence suggests that the Danes have agreed to the third point, which is being booked many times, and a lot of people were vaccinated yesterday, so we are holding our breath right now, both the government and the authorities, and hope that the next few weeks will give the backlash that is needed so that we do not look into what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is concerned about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132510	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132511	Thank you for your answer. It is because we are all concerned about the explosion that has occurred this winter. Now the Prime Minister himself mentioned the third stick. I am pretty concerned about that myself, and there I am a little worried about whether things are going fast enough. A lot of people are vaccinating. There are a lot of people who come to the doctor, the pharmacy and all sorts of places, but there is still a long queue. We know it in the SF because we sent a couple of vice-presidents out to vaccinate they're fortunately nurses; it's not just anyone we send out. But the concern is real, in terms of whether it goes fast enough. In the Finance Act we made an agreement in which we made sure that pensioners can help with the vaccine roll-out without being set off against it. I think that is a positive step, and that is why I would also like to hear whether the Prime Minister will be willing to look at some of the many pensioners who are currently being held back by the very same set-off and who really want to make themselves available to vaccinate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132604	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132606	That is certainly not something I am simply rejecting, because we really need every man on deck. It is true that there is some waiting time, but I must also say that I hear about a great many people who are coming very, very quickly and being vaccinated. I can give an example from my own little duck pond: I was also in line yesterday because it was yesterday that the vaccines for the 40+-year-olds were released, so I was in line like all sorts of others, and then I called my general practitioner; there had just been a cancellation and I was vaccinated yesterday. The fact that the general practitioners have come in many places, and now also the pharmacists, does of course mean that you have not only the offer about www.vacciner.dk, but also both in pharmacies and in your own doctor. So it is again a call that if you have booked time and new vaccine times are constantly being put out, or you haven't made it through yet, it may be that your own doctor or pharmacist can get you through more quickly. It is the third stick that is absolutely crucial. But if it is any set-off that we have to look at, then I will certainly not just stand up and resist, because we need everyone on deck.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132706	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132722	Thank you. In many ways these are rather serious days in Danish politics. The Commission is being questioned, and yesterday Mrs Inger Støjberg was convicted in the Court of Justice, and I am convinced that the Commissions were and are necessary, and that we need to get to the bottom of the matter and, in a way, turn our democracy inside out in order to take care of it. But I think maybe, unlike the previous one, it shouldn't have come here at all. It should have been dealt with in the past, and it is, after all, a sign of crisis that we need to use our strength to do so, that democracy and the majority in this House did not ensure that there was no judgment in an impeachment case. Because the climate crisis is raging, and we are heading towards everything, far too high temperature increases. No later than today, a new report has shown that there were 38 degrees in Siberia this summer that has never been seen before. The economy is also at risk of boiling over because we lack people who can help, and the world, as the Prime Minister himself has said, is once again hit by a new and, it seems, violent corona wave. But here people see their politicians going in and out of court and accepting sentences, while we should actually use most of our powers to solve the problems that we are elected to deal with. As a current example, I can mention Ahrtal in Germany, which looks like a war zone. It has been 4 months since the area was under water as one of the worst affected during the summer floods. The other day I heard Michael Reite say on the DR that it looks like an area that has been at war. So the climate crisis is here. But I still thought that, and that's actually the way to handle things, I'd like to ask that it's hard to get it taken seriously enough. We just made an agreement to double the green current, but why is it that with all the other things we have a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132948	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214132950	In any case, it is clear now that there is a difference between the approach to commissions, for the government which Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen has been part of and supported, and simply chose to cancel a Commission investigation of himself, namely the Iraq Commission. This is, of course, a far-reaching decision of both domestic and foreign policy, which, when we obtained a bourgeois majority in Denmark, simply chose to say that we would not have examined at all. That's a very special way to go about this question. I think, however, that when we in the Danish Parliament agree that a commission should be set up, we do so and then everyone must make themselves available for it. So there is, of course, a fundamental democratic view of the willingness to let itself be examined, which at that time, at least, the bourgeois majority did not have and, of course, will not get back. So there are plenty of double standards. On the other hand, there should not be such a thing in the climate area. And it's a good thing we're doing a good job. The next one we need to get to, of course, by CO2 We have agreed jointly to get some help from some experts to do this, and their work is soon being provided, and then we have to get on with the political. I don't think we have any time to waste. We're not going to slow down on the part of the government. We're going to be discussing both the airplane area... we've agreed with each other... and CO2 They're good, strong decisions, and we're not going to slow down.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133126	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133128	I am pleased about that, because much more significant action is really needed than we have, I think, been able to imagine up to now. But there are just other things where I think it is too short-sighted; it is in relation to the economy; our companies screaming at employees; nursing homes; and now hospitals screaming at carers, doctors, nurses in the middle of a pandemic. That is why I am asking about the methods here, because we had to reach a financial agreement before we could find the 22 million. kr. years of getting a license could be allowed to contribute. I am genuinely concerned: why haven't you just set it in motion in the government? Why didn't you just solve that problem? So, is it because in the context of the Finance Act we have to have such an opportunity to flag it, and then we have to wait, or is it because you did not notice it, or did immigration policy go into it? What is it that makes such a decision not just take place?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133236	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133237	I am not involved in the specific issue of health authorisation as Prime Minister, so I cannot answer that on a stand-by basis, but I am incredibly pleased that a financial agreement has been drawn up in this area too. And that sounds like something that makes incredibly good sense; that is, if we have people who come from outside, who are in Denmark and who could make a significant contribution to the health service, and if it is somehow possible to speed up an application process then of course things have to be done properly, because they are nurses and doctors and others, but I think we agree on that too. Then I would like to point out that we presented a major reform proposal in August. I hope that all parties will enter into those negotiations. I understand that there may be a bit of teasing over in the Ministry of Finance, but I think you should put it aside and come to the table now so that we can get more people to work in Denmark. I know that both the Radical Left and the government agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133330	Sofie Carsten Nielsen for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133332	And most of all, reality calls for it: companies, but also our public institutions. I think we should be aware that if we do not get a look at all the groups that are here, we will have enormous problems, but also if we do not look beyond our own borders, and we should not at least leave this a barrier to people who have the competences to get the authorisation. No one has ever questioned this. We have been pointing this out for a long, long time, but it hasn't really received any attention until it finally came up, and it may also sometimes be that the attention just isn't there. I can't believe we've had a group of people walking who have the skills they need and who can get authorization, but then there's 3 years of waiting to get through so they can get out and contribute to a hospital. We must not allow bureaucratic obstacles and foreign policy to go into this. The same applies throughout the course of proceedings in the Danish Foreigners' Agency, SIRI, the Danish Agency for International Recruitment and Integration, where it takes months and years to get people through. Will the Prime Minister do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133441	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133444	Well, I actually think we already agree to do something about it, also to speed up the process, and I can only welcome that. In other words, in general, there must not be bureaucracy in our welfare societies, and equally important, it may be to discuss recruitment, it is just as important to have the necessary discussion about how to ensure that employees spend their time properly. Because we get a lot of examples of employees who go to work who have a high level of professionalism and who would like to have to spend too much time on bureaucracy. By the way, I know we agree on that too. So that is what we are going to propose that we focus on very early in the coming year: get rid of the bureaucracy so that we can solve the welfare tasks that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133522	The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go, Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133544	Thank you. All the evidence suggests that the number of families applying for Christmas aid is likely to hit record again this year. Still many children live in poverty in Denmark, and this sometimes keeps them out of the community. Many report right now about getting a knot in their stomachs or not being able to talk to when the schoolmates talk about Christmas calendar, Christmas socks and gifts every day in December, and this has consequences for their well-being and we know that in fact also consequences for the future. I do not think we can be familiar with these children, and I would therefore very much like to ask the Prime Minister today: does another sad record not just highlight the need for a rapid agreement that reduces poverty in Denmark and which, among other things, is one of them. could involve abolishing the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, which are the rules that help maintain children in poverty in Denmark? Doesn't this record underline the need for rapid action?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133652	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133653	Yes, I will never defend child poverty. I am a Social Democrat and I know how much costs and consequences it can have when you grow up without the same opportunities as other children. There is a basic political disagreement between Enhedslisten and the government and thus also the Social Democratic Party about what it is that we think are the most long-term answers to these challenges and where we have a different view of what it is a benefit system should be able to do. That doesn't change the fact that we have a common view that there are some services that create some problems. We also have an agreement to see if we can solve it is also partially addressed in the Finance Act for next year and thus an agreement we have just made. But I also have to say that right now we have a thundering economy, a huge shortage of labour, which is hardly a better time, at least for many, many years, for you to go out and get a job, and it is far, far better if Mom and Dad get into employment and start making money than one can say one-sided focus on the benefits. So I would really, really recommend that what is constantly the goal is that we should have more in work and right now the opportunities are better than they have been for many, many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133803	Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133804	Fortunately, you can also see from the figures that record numbers are at work, and we fully agree on that objective. This does not mean, however, that it should be priced that the children suffer when we have a system of benefits which is currently hitting very hard. At the last Question Time, the Prime Minister spoke of dignity for those who have the hardest lives. And I was touchingly in agreement with what was said. But it also made me think: what about the dignity of the children who live the hardest lives? It's hard being one of the poor kids who can't afford camping school, the football club and the winter boots. Does the Prime Minister not also believe that the children who live the hardest lives deserve dignity and deserve our action now?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133849	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133850	Mine is also hard through a whole childhood not having a mother and father going to work. And the hardest thing about this isn't even necessarily the deprivation that the child suffers from childhood, which can otherwise be tough enough; it's that it's something that can be transferred from one generation to the next. There is a direct link between many years on passive transfer income and the risk that you will end up there yourself. And it's not necessarily a good life. You can be in a situation, I would like to stress that you cannot work and need help, for example. if you have severe disability or serious illness. But I myself am a child of the 1980s and could see where I grew up in a relatively exposed residential area in Aalborg... how many of my friends and comrades never got a real opportunity in this society where it was very easy to get paid to welfare, as it was then called, and where it was very easy to get an invalidity pension. And a lot of people never came from there. So when we speak dignity, the best thing is that you are awakened by an alarm clock in the morning and that you can see that your mother and father go to work, just as the majority in Denmark do everything else equally. So my focus will always be first and foremost on employment and, in addition, on ensuring that there are no children suffering unnecessary deprivation because Mom and Dad cannot go to work. We need more work; that is the most important thing, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214133957	Mai Villadsen, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134000	Of course we do. And we are extremely concerned that those at the back of the queue for applications are also those who are now entering the labour market. There is no doubt about that. But that does not change the fact that there are also situations where the economy is quite different, where there are people who cannot get a job and where their children will suffer deprivation, and that is what children do today, and that has consequences. The Prime Minister answers that there are consequences of a long life in unemployment. There are, but there are also consequences which are very, very negative, for the children who grow up in poverty. They are likely to end up in unemployment; they risk dying prematurely; we can see that they are not getting training to the same extent. This has huge consequences, and we should take it seriously and do something about it. The Egmonte Foundation came right this weekend with a report which points to some of the violent consequences for children who grow up in poverty. So I think we should put all the controversy aside and actually make some solutions that mean that next Christmas there aren't children who go to school with stomach pain because they are the only ones in the class who can't get a package calendar and can't be in the community. Doesn't the Prime Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134111	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134112	Well, I don't want any children going to school with stomach pain and not being allowed to participate in leisure activities or anything else, but we know that the picture is more nuanced than that. Because it is not just a matter of pure service; it is also a question of how high rent costs you have, for example, depending on where you live in the country. We also know, when we look into the cash aid system, that quite a lot of people have a very high debt and that it is therefore a very large budget item to pay off the debt. And there is not necessarily the connection that, because you set up the service, we are sure that the money goes to children coming to football more or participating in other activities, because there may be other factors involved. So I will always and the government will always want to be involved in discussing the child aspect, but it is crucially important and I believe with all my social democratic heart that working in this country should pay off and that there is always a clear incentive to take on a job, and that also applies to people coming from outside. For some of those women with a non-Western background who do not go to work, it is not just a question of them not being able to get a job; there is also a question of a culture which says that they must not actually work. And it just doesn't work out in Denmark. So I think we should get all the stuff on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134218	Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen. The question is closed. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134238	Thank you. I would like to continue the discussion on welfare, which I think we got off to so well last week, and spread it out a little more. It's so nice with so many questions that I really want to continue the discussion on many things here. Sometimes, as politicians, we have to ask ourselves: Who are we really here for? And I hope that we agree that we are here for the citizens in the way we are. They are the ones who have chosen us, and they are the ones for which we must make policies, aren't they? Now we started something with a pension last week, and this week I'd like to take care of the kids. Part of the agreement that has been made on minimum standards is, of course, that at the same time an agreement has also been reached that profits should not be withdrawn from private day-care institutions. Here we are talking about entrepreneurs who have put everything on a board; who are passionate about doing their own business; who are passionate about making a good offer to the children; who want to risk their pension savings because they want to make a very good offer to the children. The parents are happy. There are waiting lists for those day care institutions. The children thrive. Sickness absenteeism among staff is low. But that's a problem, I have to understand. Because if the entrepreneurs create a fantastic day-care institution, where you then of course pull out a surplus, if you are able to create it, then I suppose nobody is running a business because you now know that you can't. And then we are back to: Who are we here for? So, is the most important thing for the Prime Minister that there is an ideological approach that we do not want private day-care institutions, because it is not possible to make money? Or is it more important for citizens to choose the public offer? I believe that with the right to a welfare society, the right to know what is best for your children, including your parents? I guess the parents know that better than we do in here. So shouldn't we have the law changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134446	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134448	I have nothing against private institutions, not at all neither private nursing homes, private day care institutions, the self-serving institutions at all. I can do just that, and I really think that that is the strength of the Danish model: that we still go away, even though some of us think it should be better, has a strong public welfare society, while there is a private opportunity and some opportunities that arise from self-serving voluntary organisations. So it's not for discussion at all. What we are discussing is whether we should be able to make profits and spend it on something other than children. So this is another discussion. But I just have to ask, because we slipped over those minimum standards a little quickly: is it not correct that if there is a blue majority after the next elections and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen becomes Prime Minister, are the minimum standards abolished? Isn't that really where we are? Because as far as the whole thing is concerned, it is up to the parents to choose, but it will then be, and we know that, a deteriorated offer. For most of us have just a desire for a good nursery and a good kindergarten for our children, but if there aren't enough educators, then the quality isn't after that either. Now I have the answer to the profit. But is it not true that if there is a bourgeois majority after next, the minimum standards will disappear, roughly as quickly as the Arne pension apparently does?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134608	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134609	The Prime Minister should be welcome to resign as Prime Minister today and point to me as Prime Minister, so I should like to answer the questions during Question Time, which are called questions to the Prime Minister. These are questions to the Prime Minister. And, as the Prime Minister well knows, we are not in favour of minimum standards laid down by the state. The Prime Minister knows that. We believe, in fact, that the municipalities are doing well. But that doesn't change the fact that with this answer the Prime Minister says: we don't want the many, especially female entrepreneurs who do private day care, because if they take out a profit, it's because they might drive them better. The municipality also spends money. The lucky thing for the municipality is that no matter how miserable they run a day care institution, they just get the money they need if it doesn't run properly. A private day care institution has to meet certain requirements. And I do not understand the degrading approach to parents who want their children in a private day care institution. You can't run something private if you can't pull profits out of it. We cannot only respect the fact that there are people who can make some money making a good offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134720	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134722	I want a wide range of private subsidies, and this has always been the position of the Social Democrats, but what we know now is: by a bourgeois majority, the rights of the worn-out to a dignified retirement will disappear. We were told this a week ago; we will have more questions hours, because in this way it is very enlightening for the population and the children will lose the educators that the current majority has secured for them. We know that now. I just want to ask: what kind of municipalities in Denmark are they who are miserable at running day care centres? For that was said earlier: a municipality that is miserable at running a daycare institution. What kind of municipality is that that actually sucks at running day care? I really would like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134804	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134806	First of all, it is impressive that I am not getting answers to my questions. Secondly, I would like to say that I am here as a representative of the Conservative People's Party and I do not have any other parties at all. I can't say what other parties think. It is a pity that the Prime Minister continues with the false explanations that Arnepension is about wear and tear. No, it's just that if you've been on the labour market a number of years, you can retire. So maybe it's the worn out who pay for the others to retire. When it comes to the kids, I think we should make them a good offer. I'm just saying that in any municipality, you can choose to add money to a daycare institution. What you pull out of a profit in a private person may well be what you allocate extra in a day-care institution in the public sector. I just respect the citizens. I just respect citizens' free choice and if they want to put their children in a day-care institution that is private and you pull out profits, then I think it is very good. And you can call it profit and all sorts of things to try to make it sound like something a little uncomfortable on the edge. I just have to say: why is it that the Prime Minister wants to fight the many, especially female entrepreneurs, who do private day care?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134918	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214134921	Well, why is profit uncomfortable on the edge? I simply do not understand that. Well, I've never seen profit as negative. I like people making money. I love growth. I am proud to be Prime Minister of a country that looks at the highest growth in 15 years, the lowest unemployment rate in 12, the highest employment ever. We have an economy based on profit, on growth. I don't understand the thing about profit being something bad. What we are discussing today is whether a day-care institution or a social organisation should be able to pull out profit instead of spending that money on the citizen. But it is quite a different debate, but it is actually very beneficial to make it clear that the government and thus the Social Democrats are in favour of opposing Ergo, would it not be done away with if a blue government were to come after an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135019	The question is over. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund... Pernille Vermund It's something about me drying off? ) Søren Pape Poulsen Sorry, I should have done that). Pernille Vermund No, it's all right...). At least it's very kind when you do it. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135042	Thank you. A week ago, the government presented its third financial law agreement, a financial law agreement, which gives the socialists the payment needed to ensure that the Prime Minister and the government do not lose power. You hand out gifts and talk about free yours and that while you conveniently forget that some have to pay the bill. The problem of socialism is well known: sooner or later you run out of other people's money. The day after the financial agreement, the news of a first place in Denmark landed, and that sounds very good. It wasn't a first place in football, it wasn't in handball, it wasn't in swimming, there was actually no need to pop with a keel, because it was a boring world record in treasure. On the brand new OECD ranking, Denmark has sadly again taken first place as the country with the highest tax burden. We've overtaken France and there's no indication that this boring first place is one we're gonna let go of just for the time being. In France taxes on labour and investment have been reduced; in Denmark the opposite has been done: the Danish government has raised taxes significantly. 40 tax increases, which amount to 12 billion. kr. annual, which corresponds to approx. 2,000 kroner. per citizen, adult as a child, on average. Could it be that the ambition of the Prime Minister has been to recapture the world championship in taxes? And if it has not been an ambition, what will the government do for Denmark to step down from the top podium?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135235	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135236	Three sports are now mentioned, where we are actually doing very well, namely football, handball and swimming, and we have taken in several important medals in all three sports. I mean, if I remember right and it's with the reservation that it's taken out of memory... then I think we took first place in 2019, that is, under the bourgeois government. I do not think it is a gain in itself to take one thing or the other when it comes to taxes. I think it is about finding a balance between collecting the tax that is necessary to have the society we want, and then the society that many of us want; I am not quite sure that this applies to New Citizens, I have to understand. However, the society that many of us want is a strong welfare society, including a very, very strong public sector, because we know that it is one of the things that gives people, not on paper, but in fact the best and most opportunities. On top of that, we are facing a huge climate crisis, which also requires funding. And so we are in the situation this year that we are doing so well for the Danish economy that we actually need to step a little bit on the brake and not on the accelerator. That is why a majority has chosen to change the handicraft allowance, and that is simply a responsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135349	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135350	It was so expected that the Prime Minister would repeat this usual phrase about investing in the welfare and listing of the positive economic ratios. We have also heard them before, and it is clear that growth is high when, during the corona crisis, there has been an economic downturn. But government policy is a barrier to labour supply, a barrier to productivity development, which is a prerequisite for growth and prosperity development. Public consumption has been pumped, public employment has been promoted and tax pressure has been increased. What does the Prime Minister think about the government's own economists in the Ministry of Finance in the Financial Statement point to the government's policy contributing to an overheated economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135441	For the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135443	I say that it makes sense for us to step on the brakes, and I really hope that another government would have done the same, even if there is some ritual, one might say, criticism from others. We need to get what's being said here. So, you are now beginning to claim that the reason why things are going well in the Danish economy is that there has been a slowdown due to corona. In other words, we have the lowest unemployment rate in 12 years, the lowest unemployment rate in 12 years. So let's add the highest growth in 15 years to that I'm almost as happy as the lowest unemployment rate for 12 years. Lowest unemployment in 12 years, highest employment ever. It cannot be attributed to corona alone. It simply cannot. It is, of course, an expression of a Danish economy that is in combat, in top form, because we have succeeded in demonstrating through now two difficult years what many thought was impossible, namely that when the epidemic is controlled, the very best conditions for one's business and for one's economy are also provided. May it encourage you to start supporting the corona effort that would be really, really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135546	Mrs Pernille Vermund, on behalf of the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135547	Oh, but that's great. It is, of course, excellent that we should completely close our eyes to the massive problems that exist, partly in relation to the supply of labour and partly in relation to the development of productivity. I think this is a clear answer which says that we need a bourgeois majority in Denmark. Let it go. The judgment given yesterday by Mrs Inger Støjberg is, in my view, a harsh one. This is a harsh verdict compared to what Mrs Inger Støjberg, who ensured underage girls against abuse, has done, and it is a harsh verdict against the many politicians who pressed for Mrs Inger Støjberg to ensure that the child bride was separated from their older men. Social democracy and other parties here in the Folketing have not ensured that it is Danish law and not the interpretations of Article 8 of the Human Rights Convention on the right to family life by the Court of Human Rights, which determines what is law and law in Denmark. Will the government help to secure Danes' rights through Danish
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135658	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135700	I must not hide the fact that I also think that there are problems with some of the international conventions. It is true, as has been said here, that the perpetrator and not the victim are sometimes protected in my eyes. We have also had that discussion in the past. But I must also make it clear that we have no intention or intention of terminating international conventions. And I also believe that I can reveal here that it will not be possible for a bourgeois Prime Minister to do so either, and that is why it is somehow a blow in the air what we hear in the Chamber today. Because whether Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen or Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen had to become Prime Minister after the next elections, if the majority changes, then Mrs Pernille Vermund will be asking exactly the same question to a bourgeois Prime Minister, because there will be no termination of the conventions. In other words, it's a little free.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135745	Thank you. Pernille Vermund It does not relieve the Prime Minister of responsibility). The question is over. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. Thank you. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214135807	Thank you. The Prime Minister has given his explanation to the Mink Commission, and if we are to start from what the Prime Minister himself explained, things are as follows: On 3 November 2020, at a coordination committee meeting, it was decided that all the minks should be killed, and no one at the meeting had read the meeting material showing legal challenges. There wasn't even time for a five-minute reading break. It is, says the Prime Minister, in law that it is Mogens Jensen who has made the decision to put all the mines to death. However, the Prime Minister has, according to his own statement, spent some of the day on 3 November mentally preparing to potentially make a difficult decision, but it is Mogens Jensen who is making the difficult decision that the Prime Minister is preparing mentally to make. And no one was considering whether the government had any authority whatsoever to send police and military out on private property and encourage minkkeepers to put their property down. It is not Sunday night that the Prime Minister finds out that there is no legal basis. It is not because the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Food will find out on Thursday, nor is it because the Minister of Food will find out. Yes, even on Saturday morning, when there are ten employees in the Prime Minister's Office who know that there is no legal basis, the Prime Minister has still not been informed about Sunday around noon, as Mr. Mogens Jensen calls all the rapporteurs to inform them about the lack of a legal basis. Yes, even as Berlingske runs it as a breaking news for the afternoon, no one has yet told the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will not be notified until several hours after the public. And this is not my interpretation of the matter; it's the PM's own interpretation. I think that, regardless of party color, we can agree that such a process for such large decisions is not appropriate. And the impression I am left with when I read the PM's interpretation of the case is that the Prime Minister completely lost his grip on handling the killing of minks in the crucial November days. Is it also the Prime Minister's own experience?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140016	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140018	I will not be taken as an income for others' interpretation of what I may have said. I have given my explanation to the Mink Commission and have nothing further to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140032	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140033	I have faithfully reproduced them, and I think that the interpretation speaks its own clear, clear language. Another area where you can also get the impression that the government is losing grip is in relation to the management of the corona epidemic in Denmark. The situation is that today we have less capacity in health care now than we had when the corona crisis hit us in March 2020, and the government has not implemented any initiatives to increase health care capacity. So it is unfortunately the case that we have room for fewer inmates today than we had before the corona crisis, and that is the second winter season in a line where the government has done nothing to increase capacity. On the positive side, it means that the vaccine roll-out has gone very well, the test strategy is solid and works, there must be praise for that, yet nothing has been done to increase the capacity of health care, and therefore new restrictions must be introduced. It will probably not be last winter when we see corona and flu infection, so I would really just like to know if the Prime Minister can give a guarantee that, when we enter the season next winter, the government has got hold of the situation again and has had initiatives implemented that increase the capacity of health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140134	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140134-2	The interpretation of my words or those of others must be at your own expense. I am not going to enter into a discussion on this, and I have to say that it is simply extraordinary that the Liberal Alliance repeatedly votes directly against what needs to be done to deal with the situation and in other ways tries to undermine the efforts, then standing up and giving that version in the Chamber today. It is when you are on the Epidemic Committee that you are confessing your color right now. If you take responsibility as a political party, do what the authorities recommend, or do it like this (the Prime Minister takes his hands up in front of him Liberal Alliance has been doing this for some time (the Prime Minister takes his hands up in front of him again) I am no longer surprised, but it may surprise me more that former government-supporting parties are, of course, Liberal Alliance too, but to a lesser extent also disclaiming responsibility. You just can't do that. Then I have to say that the restrictions that have been imposed now were also made very clear by the authorities. The main reason for this is that, as I said before, we actually saw into a winter when we have quite well managed things in Denmark. We are one of the only societies that remains quite open because we have managed the situation. Omicron changes the rules of the game, but it is in the Epidemic Committee that responsibility is taken. Too bad everyone doesn't do it!
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140248	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh with the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140252	I have already taken responsibility a year ago in Question Time and have proposed to the Prime Minister that he put a lot of effort into debureaucratising so that capacity in health care is released, and I have mentioned it several times down here. The fact is that for the second winter season in a line nothing has been done to increase capacity for capacity is less, and this gives me the impression that one has lost grip on corona management in Denmark. Of course, it can also be said that it is not the Prime Minister's responsibility. As in the mink case, it is after all the Minister for Food who is responsible, and so it must be said that it is the Minister for Health's responsibility to correct the errors that exist, and it is also the Minister for Health that we must attribute credit for the things that have gone well in Denmark, and not the Prime Minister, because it is outside the resort area. Or maybe that's the way it is, I can't say that. But it is an area in which the Prime Minister is responsible, and it is in relation to the media in Denmark, and here Berlingske reported yesterday that both PET and Defence Intelligence have, according to the media itself, intimidated a number of chief editors on the daily newspapers in Denmark in an attempt to get them to stop writing about the case where four intelligence agents have been arrested for leaking confidential information. Does the Prime Minister think it's okay to treat the media like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140359	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140400	For reasons of principle, I do not enter into a public discussion on the way the intelligence services work, but I just have to say that they do not take responsibility for giving speeches. You just don't do that. You don't take responsibility for making claims or taking part in Question Time. You take responsibility when you vote in the Epidemic Committee. Now that the Liberal Alliance has had a very, very great desire for greater weight for the authorities, what is happening right now? It is that now we have made an organisation in Denmark where there is an Epidemic Commission that makes recommendations, and almost on the first occasion, not quite, but almost, there are a number of bourgeois parties that say: we will certainly not take responsibility for that. We cannot work that way; we simply cannot work that way. The responsibility is not to say words, the responsibility is to take the decisions that are needed right now in the Epidemis Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140450	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Would you mind wiping it off? Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140521	Thank you for the floor, President. In 2015, the world's richest countries committed themselves to paying part of the climate bill that we have incurred in the global South in our quest for economic growth • 100 billion. I would like to make a few comments on this. kr. And that is all that was missing, because for hundreds of years we have been making great use of the global South. First we went down there and stole living people and sold them as slaves, then we went down there and emptied their land of resources and destroyed the planet on our way, and now we refuse to pay the bill for the consequences of our overexploitation on natural resources for economic growth. In fact, I believe that we are again stealing from the global South because, well enough, the government has now set aside 100 billion. kr. in the Finance Act as new funds for climate assistance • 100 million. kr., sorry; I would be happy if you had set aside 100 billion. kr., but it's 100 million. kr. kr., which is our responsibility. And, in fact, the government has so far taken the money from development aid, that is to say money to build schools and to combat poverty. So I have to ask the Prime Minister: why does Denmark not live up to its international commitments and pay the 5 billion? kr., in new funds, I guess, to the developing countries every year?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140711	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140712	In other words, we really have to say that we are not only fulfilling our international obligations, we are doing more than that. Because we have said, among other things. in relation to Glasgow that we are willing to pay 1%. of the 100 billion dollars, and that's more than our size really says. Some of this will, of course, be a re-prioritisation of development aid. There is nothing new about this, and the needs change when we talk about development aid. After all, we had quite a different development aid 50 years ago and 40 years ago from what we are doing today, and I am glad that we agree here that our development aid must be more and more green, both in terms of prevention, access to drinking water and in terms of mitigating the consequences of climate change. So we have actually made a commitment which, I know, goes beyond what we are actually obliged to do if we are to be very careful about what each country has to deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140804	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140805	In the past, when they were in opposition, current ministers have just criticised Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government for taking away from development aid and spending it on climate aid. But I will move on to the next question. Yesterday this judgment fell in the Court of Justice, and Mrs Inger Støjberg was found guilty and was given 60 days of unconditional imprisonment. Free Greens have therefore raised the matter in committee today, in relation to whether Inger Støjberg can sit in the Folketing, i.e. whether she is eligible for election and she is worthy to sit in the Folketing. Free Greens do not think so. I know this is a matter for the Danish Parliament, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister's own position, personal position: does the Prime Minister think that you can sit as a minister and a member of parliament if you are sentenced to unconditional imprisonment? And again, I stress that I know it is a matter of parliament, but of course the Prime Minister must also have an opinion on it. So what is the Prime Minister's attitude? Is one worthy to sit as a minister in the Folketing if one is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140916	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140918	But now I'm not in this place by virtue of my own person. I stand here as the Prime Minister of the country in question hour with the Prime Minister. This is precisely a matter for the Danish Parliament, and I have very much respect for the division of labour that must be between Parliament and government in terms of impeachment. So the discussion on these issues is a discussion that is being held in the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group, and there will be an announcement from the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group when it finishes its work not from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140952	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214140954	Then I shall move on to the final question. My third question concerns the responsibility of ministers to participate actively in the public debate on their area of responsibility. There have been times in the past when ministers have excluded parts of civil society from seeing what ministers write on their public profiles on the Internet. Most recently, we have seen that the climate minister blocked the Secretary of the Climate Movement in Denmark, Frederik Sandby, on social media, Twitter. Frederik Sandby is an important voice for young people, for the climate movement. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister think that it is acceptable for a minister or ministry to exclude citizens and civil society from information and debate by blocking them on social media?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141043	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141045	I am not aware of the specific circumstances and the reasons for this, so you have to ask the Minister for Climate Change. However, I would like to say that, in general, we all have an interest in the proper dialogue and debate on social media, and that is simply not the case, especially now that I am also seeing on the social media that I myself am on to say that what is being written is quite crazy. And this has nothing to do with the specific case that I do not know about, but it is crazy what is being said and what is being written. I would actually just like to take this opportunity to say that I think we have a special responsibility in this House to support a positive and proper debate and strike hard when things are said that are not correct. But I do not know the specific case, so you have to ask the Minister for Climate Change.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141131	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. The question is closed. Will Mr. Sikandar Siddique, would you mind sprinkling? Sikandar Siddique We need to get used to it again). Yeah, that's right. Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141159	Thank you. Today's Question Time has been marked by many, many different things, and I will continue on that track. I want to ask you about the legalization of cannabis. That agenda is quite topical around the world and not least in Europe right now. And in the United States, several states have legalised cannabis. Among the European countries, attempts are also being made to tackle the relationship with cannabis in a different way. In the Netherlands and Portugal, cannabis has been decriminalised; in Switzerland and Malta, legalisation is discussed; in Norway, the decriminalisation of addicts is discussed, and the latest thing we hear is that Germany is now planning to legalise cannabis. Berlingske Tidende writes on 8 December 2021: Well, in the alternative, we share the government's concern about cannabis, for example. that it leads to abuse among some young people, that it is traded in a market that is carried by a large black economy and that it is a market that is completely out of control. And we assume that it is also some of the concerns that the government shares, and also some of those that have led Germany to plan a proper legalisation. At least you yourself say that it is to protect minors and to ensure quality control. My question is this: if it turns out that German legalisation is going to be a success, for example, in relation to Germany. to counteract abuse among young people and hit the criminal networks on the economy, will the Prime Minister help to see if it is perhaps something we can use in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141346	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141347	I am very, very sceptical, and I can also reveal here what it is all about. Once you've seen a person in a deep, deep hash psychosis and can see how devastating it can be, you'll at least when you're me always have a skeptical relationship with this. I think there are many discussions we should have as a society and among all those who go down and buy it. And one of them is, couldn't you not? If you know that if you go to Christiania or anywhere else, you help to finance the criminal underworld in Denmark, are you supporting gangs and bikers, organized crime, which is subversive to society, you couldn't help it? Couldn't we have a discussion with each other that those who go down and buy are actually helping to support a criminal underworld that will destroy our society and that destroys our society? Speaking of shootings in the street, which is certainly gang-related. I would like to have that discussion. And I have to say, I have no naivety to organized crime. I am of the very clear conviction that you remove one opportunity to make money, then the criminals find another. They don't give a damn what to do, what to sell, what to buy, who to kill in their path. So what I certainly don't buy is the logic that if you legalize cannabis, then suddenly we don't have gangs or organized crime. They'll find another way. At the same time, however, I also have to say that there are huge problems and we have very, very many young people who use it. My first question in this context is: why on earth do you want to support gangs and bikers? I simply do not understand that. And we'd solve a lot of problems if people didn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141523	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141525	Now we have to assume that people don't just stop going down and buying cannabis. They will probably continue to do so, no matter how much we discuss it. And that creates these problems, which are of course also of concern to us in the Alternative, and it turns out that higher penalties and higher fines and more police action do not solve the problem, either in Denmark or elsewhere, and it turns out that with the funds we are using now, we are not going to solve the problems. You can buy cannabis in every split in this country, and so can minors. When there are large countries that take the initiative to try to solve it in a different way, get it under control, take some of the turnover out of the criminal networks, which of course do not just disappear they do not; they will of course try to make money and see if they can find other markets, but it is after all a few billion in revenue, and it wouldn't be nice for them to lose them. is for some parameters which the Prime Minister considers to be interesting in relation to German legalization. Where is it that they have to succeed so that we may be able to use some of the experience they create there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141634	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141635	First of all, it is an exciting discussion. But isn't our problem that it's not only hashish, i.e. cannabis that you can buy in any crack in Denmark, but that you can also buy hard drugs all over the place? I mean, I'm from a generation where cocaine was something that was reserved for very, very few people, and now I can see from various descriptions that it is relatively widespread in our society. But it's a lot of hard drugs. What I'm worried about is where we're moving the fence poles. Medical cannabis is like a story for itself. I think it's an isolated discussion. But is there really anything good to say about everything else? Or is it really more a declaration of bankruptcy for a society that just gives up when we know the risks involved? That's the one thing I wanted to say. The second thing I want to say is that I find it interesting that in all sorts of other contexts we talk a lot about personal responsibility, and many of us stress it too. In fact, I would like to see greater emphasis on personal responsibility. Because it is not only the young people, but many others think that right this weekend you can go outside the law and support gangs and bikers. Perhaps it might be a good thing that I think it would be good as a society to have a discussion about whether more people should not take on a personal responsibility and say: as long as it is bikers and gangs behind this, then I just don't want to support it. Then much of the problem would have been solved. Decriminalisation seems to me to be another discussion that I have to answer on another day.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141800	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141804	It would be nice if all of us took responsibility, or if those who believe that cannabis is something you shouldn't buy at all, completely did not. The fact that the drugs are mixed together, I think, is actually right. It is often the case that in environments where you can buy cannabis, you can also buy hard drugs. It is also, I think, part of the idea of German legalisation, decriminalisation in the Netherlands and Portugal to try to separate the drugs, so that when cannabis is more accessible, properly declared, is sold under some controlled forms, then you push the hard drugs out of that environment, and then when you come a day when there is no cannabis, you are not offered anything worse. Perhaps it was not possible to imagine that legalisation would really separate the drugs and make it safe to buy well-declared cannabis in a place where you would never get near hard drugs?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141903	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214141905	I find that interesting, but isn't our problem that it's all too much? Now we've been discussing laughter gas in the Parliamentary Chamber. We've been discussing snuff in the Assembly Hall. From time to time, we also discuss the use of alcohol, not least among children and young people. Smoking is increasing among young people or is at least a very widespread problem. We know how much trouble this brings. After all, the Narkoscenen in Denmark has changed since I was young, where the hard drugs were reserved, to say what it is, the allerallest environments, especially in the big cities and not least Vesterbro in Copenhagen, until now it is something you hear about at high school parties. I think there have even been examples of this at Christiansborg and other things. It slipped, it is an expression of representing, I do not think it is in any way a health sign, nor is it that very many people seem to think that on weekends you can go and support gangs and bikers. Because that's what you do: When you buy drugs in Denmark, you can basically know that you support organized crime. It is therefore also supply and demand in which I would like to encourage some thought from all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214142014	Thank you. The question is over. We call for a vote now and there will be a vote at 3 p.m. 14.30. So we're just gonna take a short time to think.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143000	The sitting is resumed. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 101 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Pensions and the Law on the highest, middle, higher general and ordinary early retirement pensions, etc.) Bill No. L 102 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on access to temporary work distribution in the context of the handling of covid-19 and unemployment insurance, etc.) Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF) and Inger Støjberg (UFG): Bill no. L 100 (Proposal for a law on emigration). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 55 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the statutory system of cutting cards). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. 56 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the right to vote in municipal and regional elections for nationals other than Denmark). Titles on the notified cases will appear in the Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on climate effects 2021. R 10). The statement will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 21 December 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143113	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143218	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143223	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 88 (S, V, DF, SF, EL, KF, NB, FG, ALT and 1 RV (by mistake)), against 2 (LA), abstentions 9 (RV and 1 SF (by mistake)). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143312	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143316	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 99 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143353	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143357	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT), against 2 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143440	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt of the Socialist People's Party does. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143450	I think this bill should have a few words on the road today. Because I think it is actually a very big day for the victims of stalking, but it is also for me personally. Today we are voting on the criminalisation of stalking into criminal law, and that is something I have been fighting for since 2009, when I first put forward a proposal on stalking. And we also had a proposal in 2016 and in 2021, where, as you know, a majority put themselves behind this wish, and we also later made a play together. Why is this necessary? It is because the police must be able to intervene earlier in these cases. Imagine that the victims are being demanded today to endure enough persecution and harassment so that they can prove that they are subjected to stalking and that they are therefore entitled to a restraining order. Once they have achieved that, the perpetrator must violate the restraining order even very many times before it gives a consequence. I am actually aware of cases where there are 1,700 violations of the restraining order and 3,000 violations of the restraining order. Then what's it worth? Victims go down mentally, they lose their jobs, their children fall into disarray. But with the new law, the police can intervene with a prison sentence at an earlier time and give the victims calm when they are most intrudered. At the same time, we also provide support for the victims in this matter. When you live a life of fear, harassment and persecution, you need quiet. One simply loses direction and becomes disillusioned when one is exposed to such things. But I would also like to say that putting someone in prison alone is not a goal. This may be necessary to give victims a break. It is a goal to get the perpetrators to stop and not throw themselves over the next victim. And that is also why we, together, a lot of parties, have set aside money to deal with them. And since we notified the law, several have actually applied for help. That is a very good thing, because we know that with help many people can actually do well. So I think today is quite a milestone. So does the director of the Danish Stalking Center, Lise Linn Larsen, and she has been fighting for this case. On her behalf, I have promised to thank you for the law and for the action that is now being taken. I will say this to the government and to all the parties that are behind the final decision. She says that since August, when we launched the show, the Danish Stalking Center has received many more requests from practitioners who want to go into treatment. Several of them are actually referred to by the police themselves. And that's why she welcomes the fact that the center has been given more resources so that more people can have the opportunity to stop this very unfortunate behavior. Against this background, she is very pleased on behalf of the victims. And with those words from Lise Linn Larsen, we can proceed to the vote in a moment. I just want to say here at the end that I think we have come a long way today. We have gone from a point of view where the police did not always understand the seriousness and even sometimes urged the victims to try to forget the unwanted behavior and delete the messages in order to move on. Well, that meant that the evidence was erased. Today, we know that the police are taking this seriously. Now they get an extra tool in the toolbox, even more, and I think that's really good. I think we've made a lot of progress together. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143842	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143848	Before we go to the vote, I thought it would be appropriate to say to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt: thank you very much, thank you very much, for this persistent struggle for these people, for these victims of stalking. I do not think I will offend any of my colleagues in this House if I say that this would not have been possible if it were not for Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt's persistent struggle. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has been the banner leader for this, and I just thought that we could use this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for her hard work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143928	Thanks for the nice words. It is true that I have probably fought for the longest time, but in fact also with the Danish People's Party. I think we are some of those who have been focusing on this area for the longest time, but I very much welcome the fact that we are so many parties that are now united in the fight against stalking. I think it is incredibly important that we give the victims that respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214143952	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked for the floor, we shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144001	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I will give the rapporteur time to vote down. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 99 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144045	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144052	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (SF), elected by a majority (other committee), or on Amendment No 1. 2-7, endorsed by the Committee. They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144126	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144131	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (V), elected by a majority (the other committee), to divide the bill into two legislative proposals. Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, acceded to by the Committee. It's agreed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 3 of a minority (DF) and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 12 (DF and LA), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 3 is rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: (4) acceded to by the Committee. It's agreed. The draft law referred to in B shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5, endorsed by the Committee. It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144306	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144330	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144400	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144426	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144432	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144512	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144518	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, joined by a majority (S, DF, SF, RV and EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144620	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144657	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144722	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? I can see that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left, does. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214144730	Thank you. I have asked for the floor for the second reading because it is an important legislative proposal that we are discussing today. This is a legislative proposal which has two very different elements, and that is why, at second reading, the Left has tabled an amendment to divide the legislative proposal into two. We have this because we find it extremely regrettable that we now have a social democratic government which has so much opted for ideological block policy in the field of children and which has broken with decades of cooperation policy in the field of children, in which we have made broad political agreements, inviting all parties of the Folketing, of course, to important negotiations on how we strengthen and develop the children's area in Denmark and which, instead, have made narrow agreements where only the Red Parties and the Radical Left have been invited from the Folketing. This has also meant that a number of agreements have been made in the field of children between the Red Parties and the Radical Left, which have chosen to conduct an ideological crusade against unfortunately very many children in this country: all children who go to private kindergartens or who are cared for by a private carer, in a way in which parents have used their free choice to ensure that their children receive the care they think their children benefit best. It is really, really sad that in this way we have a social democratic government that has left concrete ideology above the children, who have so much to do with free elections throughout the children's field, and who have been so strongly in favour of reducing the conditions for all the alternative offers in the field of children, so that, in reality, there is no longer the same free choice in the field of children as there has been in the past. This applies both to private kindergartens, which have made it impossible for there to be the form of organisation that exists today, and I think it is sad that the Radical Left has also supported the deterioration of free elections. But this also applies to the part that is part B of this bill that we are dealing with now, which is about the private pass, i.e. what was formerly called private day care, and which there are a great many offers of all over the Danish country, and where parents use their opportunity to get a close, small, safe and local offer to their children where they are taken care of. The draft law we are debating today, which reduces the conditions, makes this virtually impossible for the future. This applies not only to the economic conditions, but also to the basis for our private pass across the country. This means that free choice in the field of children will be significantly weakened. This means that we have less freedom of choice and that we give families less freedom and fewer opportunities than there are today. It's really, really sad. On the other hand, I am delighted that there is a majority in favour of the Left's desire to divide the bill into two parts, and hence also that we will be able to vote in the third reading against the ideological crusade of the Socialist Government, the other Red parties and the Radical Left, but at the same time also have the opportunity to vote in favour of the part that has been important to the Left for a long time, namely that we will generally have better conditions for our children in our day offer. We have been mourning this before, while we have been in government, where we have added significantly more resources to the children's area, where we have created the strengthened educational curriculum and ensured higher quality in the day-to-day services we have landed and where we have introduced social norms, so that we have a special eye for those children who have a special need and, at the very least, ensure that our children experience a good quality in their kindergartens and the other childcare services that are available to them. That is why we come to the third reading too, and the report today sees this as voting in favour of the part which is part A of the draft law, which ensures better standards based on a formula called one to three and one to six, so that we can ensure that parents can be confident that there is a minimum of staffing in our day offer. But I think it is a pity that we have a social democratic government that has been so busy in strengthening part of the children's area in Denmark that it has had to be at the expense of free elections and at the expense of the private and self-serving offers and the private ones being passed by in Denmark, rather than that we in the Folketing generally could have raised the children's area and ensured both free choice, more freedom and more opportunities for the individual child family and, at the same time, a raising of quality. So the Left is going to vote in favour of Part A of the bill, and against Part B of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145215	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Since I do not see any more people wishing to speak, the debate has ended. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145225	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (Left), elected by a majority (the other committee), that the bill is divided into two? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. The bill referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Daily Offers Act]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3 of a minority (Left), elected by a majority (the other committee)? They are adopted. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Daily Offers Act]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4 and 5 of a minority (Left), elected by a majority (the other committee)? They are adopted. Then I propose that the two legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145328	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145334	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 outside the report by Mrs Mette Thiesen (NB). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. in favour of 14 (DF, NB and FG), against 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 1 has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145426	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145501	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145506	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145535	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145540	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145611	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? I can see that Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left does. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145618	Thank you for the floor. The Left has tabled an amendment to push the date of entry into force of this draft law, L 64, which is about strengthened supervision and enhanced financial supervision. We do, because this bill is very comprehensive to implement, and that is why we think it is timely care to push the date of entry into force. It is simply not right that it should now be set at 1 January. I can also report that it is contrary to the Ministry of Justice's guidance on good legal quality when we talk about business-oriented legislation, which says that there must be an implementation phase of at least four weeks. With these comments, I would just like to say, as the rapporteur of the Left, that we want the bill to be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145705	Thank you to the rapporteur. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to the committee. I should just like to make sure that we do not vote on the amendments now. We're gonna do that, okay? To begin with, we must vote on the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145754	First of all, I should like to ask whether there is a request for a vote on Amendment No. 1 of a minority (RV) joined by a majority? It's agreed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 2 of a minority (NB) joined by a minority (V, DF and KF) and can be voted on. The vote will be taken at the end In favour, 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA) voted against 55 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 2 is rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 5 and 6 declared and acceded by the same minorities lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 Acting by a majority? It's agreed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 4 of a minority (V) joined by a minority (DF, KF and NB) and can be voted on. The vote will be taken at the end Amendment No 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA) voted against 55 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT) abstained. 4 are rejected. Then it has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145948	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214145953	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 elected by a majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Green Group. It's agreed. Then I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Before we start the next item on the agenda, I would just like to give those Members who do not wish to take part in the debate the opportunity to leave the Chamber in good order.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214150100	I would ask those Members who are not going to take part in the debate on paragraph No. 26, to leave the Chamber so that this first reading can take place. The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214150140	Thank you. The production of clothing and textiles is one of the most environmentally harmful industries in the world, and it has a huge impact on our environment and climate. We all need clothes on our bodies and shoes on our feet, but we need to get away from the use and throw away culture of the fashion industry today. This requires a transition to a production and a consumption that does not work on the globe, and it cannot be solved alone in Denmark • both production and consumption are global. We have already launched initiatives in this area. With the agreement on the allocation of the research reserve in 2021 and 2022, the Government and all parties of the Danish Parliament have allocated significant funds for research into reducing the climate impact of textiles. With the political agreement on restarting Danish exports, a task force was established for the sustainable conversion of Dansk Mode & Textile. We are demanding that textile waste be collected in households with a climate plan for a green waste sector and circular economy. This should ensure that fewer recyclable textiles end up in incineration. An element of the climate plan is also that it should be made possible for the Danes to deliver more waste directly to companies that can recycle it in their production of new products or prepare it for reuse or recycling. The rules set out in the Waste Order on the establishment of voluntary withdrawal schemes have therefore been simplified, and this also applies to textiles. The government has allocated funds to the development of sorting and recycling technologies through MUDP and has established a textile waste partnership with a broad participation of municipalities, companies and the industry so that we can boost the development of recycling solutions on a large scale. Finally, with the green public procurement strategy, the government wants the public sector to take the lead by examining how public textile consumption can become greener. So these are all steps in the right direction, and we need to take even more of them. With the motion for a resolution we are debating in this Chamber today, the SF is proposing that the government put forward a draft law introducing extended producer responsibility for textile producers and a ban on the incineration of unsold textiles, both in this parliamentary year and with entry into force in 2023. I agree that extended producer responsibility can be a good tool for ensuring a much more circular production and a much more circular consumption. When producers have to pay the bill for waste management, they also get a clear incentive to ensure that the products are designed so that they have long durability so that they can be repaired so that they can be reused and can be easily recycled. At EU level, we have addressed plastic, among other things. with just extended producer responsibility on a wide range of plastic products, and we will soon be discussing the implementation of extended producer responsibility on packaging. In the spring, the European Commission is expected to present their EU textiles strategy, and in the road folder for the future strategy, extended producer responsibility for textiles is mentioned as a possible tool. Together with ten other EU countries, I have called for an ambitious EU textile strategy. The government is also working for an ambitious EU regulation of sustainable products in the context of the European Commission's Sustainable Products Initiative, which aims to promote circular economy with a focus on, among other things: clothing and textiles. Clothes industry and the production of textiles are an international industry. Production and consumption in the European Union have a huge impact on the rest of the world, so the challenges must be solved together, where we can achieve as much climate and environmental impact as possible. As in the plastic sector, we are faced with the fact that we, together with the rest of the EU countries, have to tackle textiles. It's very, very important. And here in the new year the European Commission will come up with their proposals, with which it is quite natural that we in Denmark should play along. In addition, we need more knowledge about what the consequences will be of introducing an extended producer responsibility for textiles: how many companies will we be covered? What is the environmental impact? What will it cost, both for companies and for consumers etc.? I would therefore like to launch a study on the consequences of introducing extended producer responsibility. The study will be conducted with broad involvement and dialogue with the industry. And it is my view that, when we have the professional basis in place and know what the consequences will be, then we can also decide politically on possible increased producer responsibility for textiles. In relation to the second part of the motion for a resolution on the incineration of unsold textiles, I would like to point out that companies which today send their unsold textile directly to incineration are acting in breach of the waste regulation. Companies today have a duty to sort out the part of their waste suitable for material, that is to say recovery, including preparing it for recycling and recycling. And that also applies to textile waste. So just to spell it out completely, sending unsold textile for incineration is already prohibited. But we can see that, despite this ban, too much unsold textile is being burned. We do not know the exact scope, but Econet has estimated by 2020 that up to 677 tonnes of new and unused clothing go up in smoke every year, and therefore it is also important that the proposers, SF, help to point out this problem. I will work to ensure that a reinforced model for the Waste Control Agency ensures that the industry complies with the already applicable waste management rules, and also to strengthen the receiving control at the incineration plants, in order to avoid the incineration of recyclable waste as unused clothes. We will soon have to involve the contracting circle behind the very Climate Plan for a green waste sector and circular economy in the concrete discussions on how best to organise the new and improved waste monitoring in the new year. So, overall, I fully agree that this is a very, very important issue to tackle, that is, the whole textile sector, both for the Folketing and also for the European Union. This is one of the places where we need a more circular economy, and that is why I also support the intention contained in the proposal. However, in relation to the extension of producer responsibility, as I said, I would like to supplement the ongoing work in the textile sector with a professional knowledge base on the consequences of the introduction of extended producer responsibility for textile producers, and then, as I said, the European Commission's proposals are on the right track in the new year. In addition, I will work to ensure that companies comply more closely with the current rules on waste management, and that, as I said, is also one of the things we will be addressing in the waste agreement circle. And on that basis, the government does not support the resolution as it stands, but we very much hope that we can cooperate with the SF and other parties, who are incredibly concerned about acting in relation to this particular problem. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214150834	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister, and that is only from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214150841	Thank you to the Minister for the good review of all the small steps we have taken. When we have put forward this proposal, it is because it is not enough and, as the Minister himself says, we need to take even more steps. And then I hear that it is being shot to the corner and to the Commission and to some professional investigation to find out what that means. That is why the question remains for me, which is really the most important one: does the Minister have any assurance that in the Commission's proposal, which comes here this spring, there is an extended producer responsibility? And if it is not part of the Commission's proposal, as can be heard from Commission staff, would the Minister be willing to take national steps to introduce increased producer responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214150937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214150939	First of all, with regard to the fact that small steps should have been taken: I do not really recognize that. After all, we have just chosen to include Denmark among the ambitious countries in the agreement on the whole climate plan for waste, which is why we have set the deadline for dealing with our textiles before other countries. So Denmark is in the starting blocks by saying: How can we ensure that we get to grips with this very big problem? Then it can be said that it will normally be the case that when we decide on some of these major and important structural changes that are needed to deliver on the green changes, we also have to have a basis for decision-making. That is precisely the analysis which I am also proposing that we should now have an extended producer responsibility. And Denmark, together with ten other EU countries, has pressed for the Commission's initiative to be ambitious. Exactly what that game looks like, for good reasons, we don't know yet. But I kind of think we do both. It's not a either-or, it's a boat-and. We are both doing something in Denmark, but we are also working hard to ensure that not only Denmark should do something, but that we 500 million consumers, as we are in the European Union, should do something together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151045	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151048	When I say small steps, it is because the things we have decided so far, which are important enough, are about dealing with waste. An extended producer responsibility will go in and force an industry also to think in new business models, new ways of organizing sales etc. etc., and that's where we're going if we're really gonna move on to this business. The minister isn't answering my questions. Firstly, one is to be ambitious, but has the letter from the ten countries specifically asked the Commission to have extended producer responsibility? Secondly, is it willing to go further if there is no extended producer responsibility in the EU's approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151122	I can well understand that an extended producer responsibility is also what we are discussing in this Chamber today, which is one of the tools that we need to zoom in on. I have also said from the outset that it can be a good tool. That's one of them. What we've been dealing with in the area of plastic. But we also do many other things in the plastic field. We are also currently in the process of sorting plastic precisely because we want to recycle it, recycle more of that plastic and get rid of some of the disposable plastic products. So I think it's important to say that the toolbox is bigger than that. However, I think it is a good idea to have qualified the basis for decision that will then be in relation to producer responsibility, but we in Denmark, together with these ten countries, have pressed for an ambitious strategy on the part of the European Union, because we must work together on it in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151205	The next brief remark is to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151209	Thank you. I have a question that is more specific. Compared to work clothes I know, there are many companies that use work clothes • solid, heavy work clothes • which they really just burn. Are there any bets going on to stop it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151228	When it comes to unsold textiles, it is already banned. Then you can ask what will happen to the textiles you have already used. We would really like to go there where everything that can be used for recycling should of course go for recycling. But the reason why we have decided in the broad circle of agreements behind the waste climate plan to recycle the textiles, in other words to sort them out and also to use what is being burned today for either new clothes or new fibres that can be used for something else, is precisely that we want to avoid the emission of CO2 So, as far as that part of it is concerned, I think that we are already well under way. Then there is the whole purchasing side, and there, as I said, the government's green public procurement strategy also focuses on how we can also make an effort there in relation to all the textiles that we buy from the public sector, so that we can ensure that it can get a more green print than it has today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151327	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151328	Thank you. I do not really think I was given a concrete answer to the question of work clothes. What we're talking about is the collection of clothes by households, but this is different. I am also thinking of the fact that we must of course recycle as much as possible, because it is the most sustainable thing, but there is also something that cannot be reused anymore, and then we can instead do upcycling of clothes so that we can transform it into new substances. Is this something that the Minister thinks could be worthwhile in relation to, that is, that one could spread the good stories about it or perhaps give it some support?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151400	As far as the matter of sorting in the textile sector is concerned, it is part of the climate plan for waste that we have, which, unfortunately, the Free Greens have chosen not to participate in, but in which we have just taken decisions on some of these very, very major structural changes in waste management. One of the decisions we have concerns the sorting of textiles. But what is very important is the dialogue we have, among other things. We have had with many of the organisations in Denmark today that we must ensure that everything that can be used again continues to be recycled, and with regard to all the textiles, such as textiles. hollow pantyhose or anything you can't use immediately, then we'll have to find a way to recycle it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151438	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151442	After all, we think it is very important that as much as possible be recycled, and I could understand from the Minister that the Social Democrats do not support this proposal, and the Minister said that materials should be recovered, and I think that is a good principle. Does this mean that the new clothes that are currently incinerated are not legal to burn with the current rules and, if so, if it is not legal at the present time, can you impose fines to burn new clothes that have not been sold to the shops? I mean, I think there are degrees in this, where I think it is deeply serious that clothes have been produced that have not been sold at all and that go to incineration. Is it illegal at this stage, and is it something for which a fine can be imposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151531	Just as I began by saying, it is already prohibited to burn unsold textiles, which is why we are, in fact, concerned that it should be enforced. In relation to the sanctions that are being talked about here, it requires that it be discovered and that we find out where it is. That is why I myself was pleased that some of what we agreed on in the broad area of agreement behind the climate plan for waste, and as we have decided there, is that there should be reinforced waste control. This is important in relation to textiles, but it is also important when we ask all Danes to stand at home at the garbage bins and ensure that the waste is put in the right bucket; then we also have to ensure that it doesn't get mixed up afterwards and that you can follow it and ensure that it is recycled and recycled, and therefore we come to as part of the complex that we have to agree and negotiate here in the new year, among other things. producer responsibility and packaging, to negotiate on the Waste Control Agency.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151630	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151631	Okay, it was nice to have decided that what's going on out there is forbidden. It must then be enforced, says the Minister. I was not given an answer as to whether this is currently something for which fines can be imposed, i.e. if you send such clean and new clothes to a waste incineration plant. And in relation to that control and handling, it must be possible, because it is a relatively small amount of waste incineration plants that we have in Denmark. I wonder why it cannot be enforced now. Can the Minister elaborate on how it is intended to enforce it and get rid of the illegal practices?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151706	But I do agree very much that it is good to spell it out, and I share the deep frustration that we share. In this statement, which I also mentioned at the outset, from Econet, they estimate that 677 tonnes of unsold clothing will be sent annually for incineration. We need to change that, and that is exactly why we need to have a look at how to ensure that there is waste control, so that it is also enforced. And that's in that contract circle. I mean, it's part of the deal we have with each other... the parties that are behind the waste climate plan... that we have to negotiate on it in the new year. So, yeah, I'm incredibly concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151746	The next brief remark is to Mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151750	Thank you. In relation to the Commission's proposal, the Minister says that it is important that the proposal is ambitious and she has demanded it, but I do not think there was a clear answer to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's question earlier, namely whether the Minister had also called for an extension of producer responsibility. Did the Minister take it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151814	Well, in relation to precisely using Denmark's voice, even before the European Commission comes into play, we have chosen, together with ten other countries in the European Union, to put pressure on the strategy, and there is extended producer responsibility, after all, one of the tools that can be used. Now we are waiting to see what the Commission is actually going to present, but we have at least pressed for, and I would very much like to share the approach which covers a wide range of what we want from the countries in relation to what we have sent to the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151847	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151849	Then I'll follow up on something, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentioned, because it's a little absurd to hear that it's already forbidden to burn off these clothes, when at the same time we can see the figures that 677 tonnes of them are burned off. Then you can't talk about it being forbidden. Will the Minister not help to change the legislation so that these companies, if they are finally going to burn something off, should seek an exemption to do so so that we do not continue this burning hell that is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214151920	I think that what is important to establish and I think this is an obvious opportunity to do today is that it is not for one to burn that textile off. We have no basis to say that this is exactly the number, but that is the estimate that Econet has made. Whether that is true, we cannot say, but it certainly gives an indication that there is a problem here. That is why, as I said, there is a need to act on it. There you can have a different view of what it takes. I believe that the withdrawal supervision that we have already decided must be strengthened is at least part of it, and we will be negotiating that here in the new year. It would be perfectly obvious that SF has this problem too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152001	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152004	First of all, I would like to acknowledge that we can get the request and, therefore, the pressure that the Minister says the government has been involved in putting forward in relation to the Commission's proposals being ambitious. So I look forward to receiving that in committee. Then I'm actually just going to follow up on it, as Mr. Carl Valentin is talking about. Well, one thing is that it is illegal, but something else is, if that is the way it is acted upon. Now the Minister then mentions that it is being looked at, but can the Minister try to clarify whether what is being proposed now is enough? Because we are talking about quite a large quantity, and if it is already illegal today, it is not as such that there is necessarily something wrong with the rules, then perhaps it is the follow-up to compliance with the rules. So I would like to hear the Minister's in-depth comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152048	I very much agree that there is a problem here. Because, of course, at a time when we are discussing how we can do everything we can to reduce the climate footprint we have, we cannot at the same time have that type of use and throw away production. It not only ensures that there are lots of collections and very fixed fashion out there, but also that what is not sold goes directly to incineration, instead of ensuring that it goes for reuse and recycling. In practice, the rules will be such that a company will be asked in the first place to put an infringement in order, and if it is broken again, the relationship may first be severed, but also subsequently reported to the police. The infringement can be punished by fines, and I think that was one of the previous issues. And prison can also be given up to two years. The minimum penalty rate is DKK 20,000. So there are at least some rules, but it is also quite obvious that there is a problem with enforcement. That is at least why we are going to be discussing this problem at the beginning of the new year when we are going to look at the strengthened waste control system.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152157	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152158	Can the Minister say anything about how many cases have been brought, where these rules have been violated? Because it says something about whether you can actually comply with those rules and thus follow up those rules. For the rules may be good enough, but if there are no cases and we can see that we know that, regardless of whether it is called 677 tonnes, it is at least a large amount and a high level we are talking about. So have there been any cases and, if so, what has become of them?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152223	Well, I'm not aware that there have been any cases, and I don't think the Ministry of the Environment is aware of that either. That is also why I am saying that one thing is that there are some rules here on a paper where you can say that it is actually prohibited today. These are the rules we have with each other. But we can only see that, whether the figure is 677 tonnes or more or a little less, there is at least a real problem here. That is why we need to act on it as soon as possible in the Folketing. And there is already that agreement in the very circle of agreements on reinforced waste management.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152256	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. This is the starting point of the rapporteur's report. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152316	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the Minister for his excellent review, but I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. And on this occasion we can discuss some of the major challenges that we face and which the Minister also mentioned. And that is the transition to a circular economy in the longer term. There is no doubt that the production of clothing causes one of the quite large global emissions of CO 2 10%. of global CO2 It is more than the shipping industry and international aviation combined. In the European Union alone, as we have already heard, it is estimated that we will emit approximately 650 kg per tonne. person. That's a lot. So, of course, I also agree with SF that we are facing a major challenge when it comes to dealing with textiles in a larger green transition. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is, of course, to require the government to introduce a legal requirement for the textile industry to reduce CO2 This also applies, of course, to the incineration of unsold textiles. After all, I already sincerely share the concern that already exists about the massive impact of the clothing industry on our planet. And, of course, there is also a need for us to find a solution and specific solutions across countries. After all, the clothing industry is a global industry, and that is why we must, of course, work to raise the levels of ambition where we can. This is true, for example. in the EU, where Denmark is working for the EU's future textile strategy to be ambitious and address the key challenges of the clothing industry. In this context, it is being examined whether part of the extended producer responsibility for textiles can be shaped in the way the European Union has done for plastic, and I already understand that the Minister for the Environment supports it. In addition, of course, I also hear that the Minister for the Environment is going to launch an analysis of the consequences by introducing an extended producer responsibility, so that we in our circle can decide whether this is the way we should go. When it comes to burning unsold textiles, I can also understand very clearly from the Minister for the Environment that it is outright against the waste rules whose unsold clothes are sent directly to incineration. It is the duty of companies to sort out the part suitable for reuse and recycling. After all, the new model for waste management, which we have agreed with the Climate Plan for a green waste sector and circular economy from June 2020, must also help to ensure that companies comply with the requirements for waste management. And, of course, I expect this to support the fact that there are fewer textiles, so that they are not just sent for incineration. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that in 2021 and 2022 we will, among other things, be able to do so. together with the SF has allocated funds for research into reducing the environmental impact of textiles. A task force has also been set up for the sustainable conversion of Danish fashion and textiles, which will work to ensure that the industry in Denmark becomes greener and more sustainable. Of course, we have a responsibility to contribute to the solution to the green conversion of the textile industry, which is why I am also looking forward to working together in the committee with the SF on solutions to the challenges of the climate and environmental impact of the textile industry. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152652	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152658	Thank you very much for a positive approach, although I did not hear a cheerful yes to the support of the Social Democrats for this good proposal from the SF. I must then try to convince the rapporteur to do so in other ways. However, I would like to return to this clue about the extended producer responsibility, which is constantly being put to the fore in relation to the European Union. And I just have to stress that the strategy that came from the Commission earlier said that it would be considered. We hear now, among other things. through an article in Climate Monitor that there has been an employee responsible for this here in the Commission saying that it is not something that is still part of this. After all, it is extremely disappointing that it has already gone so far that it is not something that is being considered in the Commission. When countries start something, it usually means that the Commission comes along.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152805	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. There is no doubt that it is quite important that we are walking on two legs here. One leg is, of course, that we should pay tribute to what the SF also says very rightly, namely that we should look at the textile industry, and we do so, of course, in the work that is now in the European Union already, as the Minister has also pointed out. The second leg, which I also think it is quite important that we remember, is that we are in a situation where Denmark, as a small open economy, is dependent on us making common rules across borders. Because we risk, of course, that the production of textiles, if it gets too hard, will move south, east or north of the border, which, of course, is not appropriate. Expanded producer responsibility is part of it, and we are going to look at that. I think it is important that we do this properly and in a thoughtful way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152857	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152859	I do not think that I am revealing anything that the rapporteur is not aware of, but textile production does not exist elsewhere in Denmark, because we do not have any textile production of special size left in Denmark. After all, this is about who is responsible for it when you sell clothes in Denmark. That is why we can see that they are moving in Sweden, and a great deal has been done in France. Once again, I just want to ask about the fact that it's all about what we're selling here in Denmark. Do we believe that the manufacturers are responsible for the impression they are putting on our planet, both in terms of climate and environmental terms. That is why I want Denmark to help push for development in the European Union, and this can be done through national legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214152940	We must, of course, push on the EU too, and we are already doing so now that we are sending our government off with a mandate. We do that every time we send a minister. And of course it has already acquired responsibility now, among other things. to handle your garbage in the right way. There, too, we have already heard that it is a question of them not simply sending the waste they have to handle, such as unused clothes, to incineration; that it is simply not legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214153008	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214153033	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the SFs for putting forward a very relevant proposal, which, I think, gives us the opportunity to have a good discussion on how to tackle this problem. Because that's a big problem. I've been informed that it's about 8-10 per cent. of the global greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the production of clothing and footwear. It is, of course, a size that can be taken and felt, and if you can do something about that part, it will also help enormously to help the climate challenge facing the whole world, including what we in Denmark can contribute to. In concrete terms, it is proposed to introduce an extended producer responsibility, as has already been mentioned in the debate here, for textiles, by imposing financial responsibility on textile producers for the products they market, and also to propose a ban on the incineration of unsold textiles. As the authors of the motion for a resolution, we fully agree that this is a major environmental and climate stress factor in Denmark and abroad. This shows the analyses that we also have, among other things. from the Danish Energy Agency and several interest groups. So it is important that we have a look at and redesigned the way in which we both produce and sell and consume textile products in Denmark and for that matter in the rest of the world. But we can start with ourselves. With the climate agreement on waste and circular economy in 2020, we agreed that there should be increased and more streamlined waste sorting, among other things. textile waste applicable from 2022. So it can be said that there is already work going on towards what we want. At the same time, it can be questioned whether a ban on incineration in 2023 will actually have an effect on recycling, as it can be said that there is no recycling capacity or design that should be; logistics must also be in place, as we know it from among other things. the plastic area. It's certainly an essential element in solving this problem. As has also been mentioned, the EU comes here in 2022 with a textile strategy, and it does not know the details, but I noted that the ministers will reveal what pressure they have put on the Danish Government. In any case, I think it is important that we from both Danish and Danish alike should press on, so we take note of that strategy, but also look at what we in Denmark can contribute from good experience. We know it from other areas where we have also taken the lead on the Danish side. I'm thinking, among other things. on the recycling of food, where we also have some models of how to reduce the food waste that we have. I think it is absolutely crucial that we draw up a joint producer responsibility for all the Member States of the European Union, which cooperates and that it is based on the same conditions, otherwise it could go beyond competitiveness and therefore also the environmental and recycling effect that we would like to see, so that we do not shift the problem from one area to another. However, as I said, we think that there are some good tactics in the proposal here, which we would very much like to continue working on in committee. Possibly in a joint report, where you can help address the issues, but also the suggestions, the models and the experiences we already have on the Danish side. Now I mentioned before the food sector, and so could other areas. It could also help address some of the challenges that I hear from the industry too, for example. in relation to taxation, where companies transfer their unsold clothing to charity associations, etc. I understand that there may then be some challenges in terms of depreciation options etc. So there may be different issues that we can try to identify more closely and get addressed, possibly in a joint report. In any case, I would very much like to add to that. Because as I said, we see this as a big problem, that is to say 8-10 per cent. The global emissions are coming from this area. We can't just ignore that. But it is also clear, on the other hand, that we cannot solve it alone in Denmark. But we can help to push, and we in Denmark can also help to show some suggestions and models, as we already know from other areas that are more mature, one can say, i.e. among other things. in the food waste area and recycling of plastics etc., which we also work on from the Danish side. So that should be the comments from me and the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214153504	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214153509	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen for the speech and also for the positive approach to it. You always see it as a good idea that when you make a proposal, you just say yes, it is much easier than having to discuss so much. But I am going to be driving around in the same direction again about this EU strategy, because I know that we are a little hoping for something. I am then one of those who, when the Commission starts talking about something, start digging into what it is that comes, what you can find out is coming, and you can talk to rapporteurs for Parliament, and you can meet with the Commission and hear what is like coming, instead of sitting around waiting for the proposal for a directive to come, because then there is already a process going on. I just have to say that the comments on extended producer responsibility were very, very weak in the strategy they came up with, which is, like, processed into the greater work. In addition, there has been a statement by the Commission, which is also mentioned in the Climate Monitor, that it is not expected to be included at all. Does the Left believe that we need to move this forward more forcefully in order to have extended producer responsibility, or should we just wait and see what comes from the Commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214153618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214153619	We are not prepared to make an extended producer responsibility in Denmark alone. We are not, because we believe that this would distort the problem and hence the competitive situation. It was a little woolly what the government has put pressure on more concretely, but now we are getting that communication into committee, and then we can see what the government has been pushing for, i.e. whether there is also an extended producer responsibility at EU level, because we would very much like to be involved in discussing this. Then there is precisely one's rules that you have to work on at an EU level, and we think that is the right solution when we talk about a global industry that also deals across borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214153703	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214153704	I totally agree. To be able to do this in common in the European Union would be fantastic. I just have my scepticism about whether it is included in the Commission's proposal when it comes in the spring, because of the announcements that have been made. Then you can do it in other ways. You can also look at other countries that are moving on to this, and you could join them, in other words Sweden, or you could look at the legislation that you have in France. Would the Left be willing to do so if it is not part of the Commission's proposal and thus does not become part of the common EU rules? Are you so willing to look to like-minded countries, i.e. whether we can move this together and have an extended producer responsibility that is not just about dealing with waste, but about changing an industry, some business models that make this really sustainable?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214153742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214153744	One thing is the European Union, and I am in favour of that, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist promises, may have his doubts about what comes with, but we must see that. It comes, as I understand it, only in the new year, so after all, it is not as long as we have to wait for the Commission's proposals. When it is then, and if it is not enough, and if we in Denmark think it is too little, that it is too unambitious, then of course I think we should go along with like-minded people and see what we can find out together. But I just stress that we are not going to have to make a special rule, a special tax, you might call it, on Danish production or for that matter sales in Denmark, because I think that would just push the problem somewhere else, so we might see a sale happen south of the border, and then we would just take it home to Denmark that way, and the climate, as we know, doesn't know national borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214153827	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And thank you for just getting the platform ready for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214153849	Thank you for that, President. Thank you, too, for the proposal. It is a sympathetic proposal, and it takes up one product. It could be all sorts of other products too, but clothing is such a product that becomes out of fashion, and if it is not sold, it goes to incineration. This is really about circular economy. I really think that you should take the discussion in a completely different way when we talk about this green transition and circular economy, because you could also sit here in a financial bill debate or something else, and then you have to spend some money, and then you say: you can borrow money, it is actually not so expensive at the moment because the interest rate is low. And why is it? It is because the central banks just print money all the time and sell bonds. As long as there's growth in society. As long as there is growth in society, we can spend all the money we want, because we must not be paid back. That is what creates growth. It actually creates growth to produce a whole lot that we don't use, but throws out. It creates some growth. That means we can spend some money on something else. That is the discussion we need to take. However, I fully agree with the proposal here. It is a huge challenge for us that we use lots of energy, we use lots of resources, especially if you take such things as cotton clothes, it is one of the things that really cost resources, and then it turns out that it is never used. After all, it is not a circular economy, it is circular zero, because the product is never used, and then it goes to incineration. I am very much in agreement with some of the previous rapporteurs that we are probably not getting anything sensible out of going alone in Denmark. We probably don't get much climate out of it, because the market just moves somewhere else and you can buy your stuff over the net if it becomes more expensive to buy clothes in Denmark. But I very much agree with the idea behind this motion for a resolution, and it should really be extended to include other products and think about the circular economy in it, i.e. how we think about consumption, not only in Denmark, but for that matter throughout the world. And then there will be a little less growth, and it may well be that you will have to pay off debts, which you also create as a nation state. So I really hope that we can stick to the proposal here, because I have heard the other rapporteurs, and I almost think that there could be a majority in favour of it, and that we could actually write something sensible in a report on how we are going to work with it here in Denmark, giving it a very, very strong mandate to work with how we are actually going to get a more circular economy at any time. Because we can make a circular economy on what we have spent, but if the amount of what is not used is almost as large, then we have the wrong end of the challenges that we face. So I hope that this is a proposal on which we will first have to spend time in committee, where I happen to be chairman too, and where we can try to work on how we could do something, and perhaps also get a majority, so that we could give it a strong mandate to work here at any time. Because with the position that we have, I also believe that we must clearly go the EU way and look at how EU countries can do it. And I just want to say that we have had good ideas in this Parliament before, which we have also got through in the EU system, so why couldn't we also get it in relation to the circular economy? So thank you for the suggestion. We are not voting in favour of what is happening here, but I certainly believe that we can make a positive contribution, including politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154210	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154215	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and for saying that it is not a question of thinking circularly about waste, but that it covers everything, because what this is all about is starting to think about setting up circular business models. But what I really want to say is that the rapporteur is talking about us thinking circular economy into a whole. I just think it is important to understand that there are special cultures and special ways to have business models in individual industries, and when we are dealing with an industry that has such a massive impact on our climate, but also on our environment and on employee rights it is actually all around that the textile industry is quite straining and we also have to make special rules, so go in and understand the industry and make the rules to suit it. This does not mean that we do not have to do anything about a number of other industries too, but it is just that it has some particular business models, and it also has a special, very global value chain, and therefore it is also necessary to think sector-specific.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154317	I do not, in fact, disagree with that and something can be done about it. I just think that when I get the opportunity to stand and talk about circular economy up here from the parliamentary platform, I will also take this opportunity to say that this is a really exciting agenda, because it is an agenda where we do not actually prohibit the production of clothes, but in this case we make rules on how to produce garments in a more sustainable way. That is what is interesting, that is to say, instead of restricting something, we will then have a production that is sustainable. That's also how I read this proposal. So it was just to say that this is a single area, but that there are a lot of other areas where you can have that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154355	There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, so thank you to Mr Seligman. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Zenia Stampe. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154409	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the SF for putting forward this excellent proposal, which we in the radical parliamentary group support. The typical objection we wanted and, of course, which we also want to pursue in committee is, of course, the European Union's legal trail, but the authors of the motion for a resolution have written it into the comments on the motion for a resolution. When we support it, there are three good reasons for this. The first good reason is that clothing production has high costs both in relation to the climate and the environment, and certainly also in relation to other bottom lines, but now the focus is on climate and the environment in particular. We also support it because pace means something in this time. It is true that we have an environment minister who is preoccupied with the issue of things happening but we will do everything we can to speed up all these processes because we are in a struggle with time. We are in a hurry and this is an area that takes up a great deal, not least in the climate accounts, and that is why we will vote for virtually everything that can help speed up the process. The third argument is about our special responsibility for this industry, because we are known for our textile production... not so much for what is being produced in Denmark, but for Danish clothing. There we are a trend setter, and we are also a green trend setter, and we really see great potential in getting the two things together, but we also have a great responsibility for that; that is to say, to become known in the world as a sustainable textile producer, a clothing manufacturer, but also to take responsibility for creating a more sustainable textile production. The authors are right that this is not just about waste management. It is basically about thinking about production in a more circular direction. There's Mr. Knox. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party is absolutely right. And if we are going to do this and have time to do it, so that makes the difference we need to avoid the climate disaster, then we need to get going. That is why we support the proposal and would like to thank the SF for putting it forward. I almost wish it had been put forward by ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154630	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154635	I just want to ask you about the EU angle. As a rule, the Radical Left is very pro-EU where we have to work together on matters, and the climate problem in particular is a cross-border problem, which is also what we are discussing here. If you were to make a local, national, producer responsibility, which, of course, everything else equal will mean an increase in sales in Denmark, it would not mean that a significant part of the sales would move abroad, for example. to Germany, on the web or elsewhere, which would then just move the problem around, and which might even increase logistics and thus also CO2 What does the radical rapporteur think about that issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154715	But that is the question we will have, regardless of what area we propose to take the lead. It is just my fundamental conviction that if we are to resolve the climate crisis, someone has to take the lead. And we have a special responsibility to take the lead because we are a green leader nation. We are proud of that, but we also have a responsibility to take the lead in an area such as this where we play a major role and can play a major role. I'm not so worried about the cross-border trade in clothing. I'll tell you what. But in that case it is also worth it if we can help bring about a change that is far greater and goes far beyond our own small market.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154756	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154758	I just have to understand correctly: the Radicals do not see the European Union as a relevant player in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154805	Yes, indeed. We must therefore take the lead, so that we can inspire the rest of the European Union. That is why many of us think it is so important to take the lead. It's because what we do can prepare the way for others. That is why we can make a difference that is so much greater than our small country should actually justify.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154825	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154827	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. I would just like to ask a quite quiet and very peaceful question about whether the rapporteur does not think that this should be done properly without sounding too loaded. After all, we already have the Danish Mode & Textil Association, which says that it is crucial for them that EU harmonisation is a solution. That also means, I suppose, that in order for us to do this in a sensible way, we must listen to the parties that are now players in this, so that we not only put a lot of good opinions and good will on our business community in that case, but also listen to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214154916	Now I was going to say that it is often those who are pressured by some extra regulation that would want that regulation not to be there. But it is not always the case in Denmark, because there are actually many industries that are really ahead and also think that regulation can be a competitive advantage for them. We are, of course, listening to the industry, but we are also taking our political responsibility on us, and it is we who are here right now in these years that can make the difference between what the world looks like in 20, 30 years' time, and that is where we listen first and foremost to the climate and the environment. And then we believe that our industry is also able to cope with stricter regulation because they are already ahead in so many other areas. I think this could be a competitive advantage for them, just as it has been in a lot of other areas where we have decided that we are going to take the lead, including the risk that there is some trade moving across the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214155017	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There is no wish for any further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for getting ready for the next rapporteur who comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214155035	Thank you. Thank you to the SF for putting forward the good motion for a resolution, which is both about extending production responsibility and also about banning the incineration of unsold textiles. I think it is obvious that we are moving ahead with demanding that products can be reused, so that there is design something to say. To the second part about doing so, what to say, forbidden to burn off unsold textiles, I would say that the debate so far has shown that the Minister for the Environment believes that it is already banned, and there is a question of how it is handled. I actually think that in committee we can have what it takes. I would imagine that there are some incineration plants that are actually being paid to receive this alleged waste. Either they get paid for it or they may pay for it if it has a good brand value. So there must be an opportunity to find out where the illegalities are going on, because it is crazy if it is over 600 tonnes of usable new clothes that have not been able to find a buyer in the shops, which then ends up in an incineration plant, so that we can get heat through district heating in the winter. It's a fucking tooth. And since it is already banned, it must be something that can be achieved relatively quickly. I do not know whether we are going to have a clothing police in Denmark, but there might well be a special unit in the waste area that could come up with a solution to this, and I would hope that through a committee procedure we will manage that part of it. On the second part, whether we can come up with legal requirements for other clothing designs, it may be harder to see a solution, and it is at least with what I have listened to so far, difficult to see that there is a majority in favour of adopting the SF's proposal as it stands, but the Enhedslisten will in fact be ready to make legislative demands. We hope that something will come out of this motion for a resolution by the SF, and we will be very happy to take part in some constructive debates in committee. I think it is a good thing that the chairman of the committee has announced something about seeking a solution that can be used, so we are very happy to take part in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214155310	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214155331	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for the suggestion. I see this proposal in a positive light, because we are lagging behind in sorting and recycling technology in textiles. And I also believe that the clothing industry has spoken more than just taken action. But I must also say that I see it as another SF proposal in line with air fares and much more, which, in isolation, can make very good sense, but which also smells a bit of symbolic policy. Because the fight to sound the most green is lively, and I have long since appointed the alternative from the platform to be the greenest party, and that is the way it must be, isn't it? It's the most ultimate. That is all well and good, and I am not really in any doubt about the good sense of it in any way whatsoever. However, frankly, I do not think it is very clever to make one proposal after another about this, when at the same time we know very well that we are waiting for the green tax reform, for a CO2 It does not make sense to discuss either this or any other good initiatives separately from here, unless it is to push the government it is quite okay. However, it does not make much sense to look at the major environmental issues without having an international perspective, and that is crucial. In Denmark, we have to take the lead because we can and because we want to, but we must not take the lead in simultaneously reducing competitiveness with job losses. We must and must think smarter, bigger and more coherent. The Conservative People's Party is fully in favour of a model that will make it easier to go for more sustainable clothing production. We are positive about looking at how the clothing industry can sell less, recycle and repair, and to look at a new tax structure that creates the incentives that need to move the industry. But that also requires the return of other taxes. Whatever the case, the industry, like all other manufacturers, needs to be able to scrap clothes that are destroyed and therefore cannot be sold. Whatever the case, we would rather see an EU solution, a common harmonised circular solution, so that the resources in use are recycled and recycled instead of turning into waste. Conservatives do not believe that the time has come to introduce national producer responsibility, but instead to use our time to develop good solutions. That is why, unfortunately, we will not be voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214155536	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214155541	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have one comment to make: this is not about looking green. It's kind of because I come from the fashion industry, and I went into politics because I could see that it was an industry that is not going to happen in anything unless regulation comes with it. So this is an important proposal. Actually, I know it's gonna make a difference out there. I just have to understand the rapporteur correctly, as to whether you think that a CO2 is simply to understand what was said in the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214155619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214155620	That is quite fair and I must say that it is clear that the rapporteur comes from the fashion industry. There is no doubt that it is not just one measure that will change something in the textile sector, and I think they are well aware of that too. And we're going to both have to look at the circular, at CO2 Now I'm a little older than the rapporteur, I can see clearly, and I'm out of a generation where it was nice to get some new clothes, because by far most of it was sewn from home, or you got it from a previous generation • now I didn't have bigger siblings, so it was really good to be the firstborn in that situation. But there are some things we need to go through, and we are too slow to do so, and I recognise that too, and that is why I say that we are in favour of it, but that we think it should be in an international perspective. We should not have a textile industry that has to have different rules, depending on what country they have to sell their products in.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214155710	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214155725	Thank you. The debate on extended producer responsibility for textile producers is not a new one. Now the SF then presents their proposal for a parliamentary decision on extended producer responsibility. Textile consumption is increasing globally and global textile production has doubled from 2000 to 2015 as a result. Clothing and textile branhcen is thus an industry which is in the midst of a major change, among other things. As a result of political involvement and increased regulation, common global rules of play are necessary. An extended producer responsibility for textile and clothing manufacturers may be an additional addition to ensuring a circular transition. It can also help to motivate the design of products with a longer durability, increased reuse, repair and recycling possibilities. But this does not mean that we have to decide blindly to introduce a local Danish extended producer responsibility for textile producers. There are a number of factors that need to be carefully considered and taken into account before taking the final decision. What is crucial is that it should be a globally harmonised solution, because otherwise, for example, it can be a globally harmonised solution. rules on taxes and tax reductions for more sustainable and circular textiles will vary from one country to another. This will, of course, happen if all countries initiate national special initiatives, and that is not appropriate. This will make the Danish textile industry poorer, and it may end up being extremely resource-intensive to manage. At the same time, it will leave Danish and international companies disillusioned if they experience that there is no global agreement on what more sustainable and circular textiles cover. This will make it much harder for them to approach the process systematically. We need to look at experiences from other countries before we start work. Here we need to analyse what has worked and what has not, before blindly putting the Danish textile industry into the stocks. On the basis of the above, a thorough analysis of the consequences and costs for individual companies and the industry as a whole, as well as other actors and countries, should be carried out in the appropriate forums. Denmark may well be a pioneer country in fashion design and textiles and thus create export and secure jobs in Denmark, but we need to do the necessary preparatory work and think about and calculate proposals that involve a common global responsibility and not just a Danish local responsibility. Therefore, New Citizens cannot support B 12. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214155957	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Free Greens, and that is Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214160009	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking you for this proposal. The clothing industry is the fourth most CO2 production must of course be sustainable, and this really means that you have to look at the fact that what is cheap here in Denmark is expensive on the other side of the earth. It can be in the form of chemicals, pollution, poor working conditions, child labour and CO2 If we can learn from some well-functioning systems of producer responsibility from our neighbouring countries, as the SF proposes, then it is really fine. Fortunately, we already have some good examples of sustainable clothing productions, both in the surrounding countries, but also in Danish companies, both those that produce sustainably in nearby countries and the larger companies that produce relatively sustainably in Asia. It would be excellent to look at how to transfer the good experiences to the less sustainable products. It could also be really nice to look at the durability and fashion-neutral design so that clothes do not become obsolete because of the appearance. Of course, the unsold goods should not be burned. Either they have to be sold in other markets a little further away... it might be in southern Europe... or they can be sent to foreign aid. And I know that many in the clothing industry are already using it. We have rules that prohibit burning which are not observed, so that means that we probably burn more than 600 tonnes of clothes a year • new, fine clothes that many might enjoy. And then you might ask whether new legislation will help if you do not have more control over the production and incineration that is taking place. What we in the Green Group would also like to have looked at is how to prevent this high level of consumption, that is, what happens when the products are sold. There are numbers that show that 10%. of our CO2 We generally wash our clothes too much. We could actually use a recommendation, a new brand in our clothing products, which recommends air drying rather than frequent washing. It will cost less CO2 I know that many companies burn their worn work clothes. Focus on clothes picking up from companies for upcycling could be very good to focus on, provide support and gather experiences from. In Sweden, there is a company that specialises in the upcycling of old clothes that cannot be recycled and that makes new textile products out of it. They were just listed last year for a three-digit million. We have very good experiences and experiences with recycling and recycling stores. It is a huge success, and that means that there will be a reduced need for new production. We also have many trend-setting clothing rental companies, which means that instead of buying the company dress, which is not used many times, you can rent it. And upcycling, where the clothes that cannot be recycled are used to make other things, we also have some good examples of from Denmark, both in relation to clothes, bags and shoes. And that requires fewer raw materials and fewer resources. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214160402	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214160429	Thank you and thank all the rapporteurs and the Minister for their consideration of this proposal. I might as well say it as it is: I love fashion. I think fashion, clothes are amazing. I am a trained designer myself and have worked in the fashion industry, and I love everything we can with clothes. It is a way of expressing ourselves; it is a way of interacting with each other without words. It's creative, and it's amazing. If I'm gonna be able to stand here and defend it, I'm gonna have to do something about the huge print that that industry has on our planet. It is in relation to the climate, it is in relation to the environment, and when you look at how many chemicals go into textile production, it is completely insane. When we look at nature some of the places where you color and produce fabric, it's crazy what we allow for, so that we can take clothes on the body. Before I chose to go into politics, I worked in the fashion industry, and I could clearly see that there were some fiery souls burning for this which burned for how to make a sustainable transformation of the fashion and textile industry, but I could also see that it was just too small. If this is gonna move, we can't just point our finger at an industry. Nor can we do what has been done for too many years when it comes to this area, namely to say that consumers need to think more sustainably, because they cannot move alone either. We need to move on three parameters: it is industry and the industry must be moved, yes, and consumers must become smarter and move forward. We can do that on one and that's what this proposal is all about. The Minister listed many of the good agreements we have made on waste management and the collection of textile waste, and that is very good. But what we're doing with those steps and that's why I so called it small steps is that we don't think about changing anything; we think about dealing with what is. And if we do not change anything, but just think that we have to deal with the waste, then we will not change the huge burden that is in the production of everything, too much clothing. I remember that when I graduated and came out and got my first job in the fashion industry back in 1998-99, it was so crazy when some big companies made four seasons area. Then they were really some of those who made a lot of new things every year, so four times a year they sent new collections on the street. It doesn't see that anymore. Now there is a constant flow in the stores of new goods, also because forms of communication with social media change. But there's always this new stuff on new ones. Especially the whole wave of solid fashion, that is, the very cheap and very fast marketable fashion, is constantly throwing off new collections that create consumption and consumers go down and buy it. And then it can be quite so much thought sustainable or organic cotton. But if you go down and buy a piece of clothes and use a few times and then throw it out and it goes to incineration, there's nothing sustainable. Not even if you recycle the fibres, that is good enough, because the energy that goes to produce it in the first place means that things must first and foremost be recycled and not only recycled. When we then propose this extended producer responsibility, it is precisely because with it we can go in and start tampering with what it is like to think about the whole business model, that is, the whole value chain, through, the whole chain, instead of just thinking about how we handle the waste. That's where we're going. We need to change the business models that support constantly producing more and more, cheaper and cheaper to create higher and higher consumption. Because we can handle the waste as well as we can, but if we keep producing too much waste, it will not work. Many rapporteurs have mentioned and talked about this with EU solutions, and we are also talking about the European Union in the proposal, because yes, it is fantastic when we can come together in the EU and I think I am saying that again and again from this platform. However, one of the ways we can move and make the European Union move is by showing the way, and thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe for pointing that out. So it is also sometimes the case that when we move in the European Union, it is because some countries say: Hey, should we not go this way? And then the others come along. I am one of those who usually dive into proposals from the Commission before they are put forward as a draft directive and among other things. I have actually spent a great deal of time on this great strategy on textiles, which has been announced where concrete proposals are now coming. And it worries me that we are sitting back and believing that the European Union will have extended producer responsibility when that is not what we are seeing right now, and when people from the Commission have said directly that they are not counting on it. As stated in an article in Climate Monitor, there is nothing planned to move forward with a European extended producer responsibility, says the deputy manager of the production, products and consumption department of the European Commission. And we have to take this very seriously, so we would like to see us push this and work very actively for it to be included. And I am also looking forward to seeing the letter that has been sent from Denmark and a number of other countries. And if the extended producer responsibility is not in it, then I think we should send another letter so that we can be sure that we can bring other countries together. For there are others who work with this; it is not just a clever idea that has come in a former fashion designer's head up at SF with colleagues. This is, in fact, something that some people work with in very many countries. It is dealt with by parliamentarians in France, the Netherlands and Sweden. I have colleagues from the European Greens in a number of countries who are all sitting here with this because this industry is as straining as it is. We have to do something, we have to change it, and we only do that if we go all the way down there. In relation to waste incineration, where it is said that it is already banned, I have to say that something is wrong if anyone can avoid a ban on 677 tonnes of textile waste which has been assessed as being burned off. Apparently it's illegal, and somebody must have seen it. Well, it's not like you just go down and throw a bag in a garbage bin in the City of Copenhagen. Then you've saved 677 tonnes. So I welcome the Minister's promise that there will even be serious control over this. I also think, as described by this, that we need to write some legislation about it. There must be a derogation to be allowed so that it is examined if someone comes with a pallet or ten with clothes. Then we simply have to seek an exemption to be allowed to burn it. And apparently it's not like that. We've had these cases for at least the last 10 years. I think it was the second year that came up with an article saying that too much textile waste had been burned off again. I think we can move it. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs in general for their approach to this. I would like to say, as chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Mr. René Christensen, says: let us work on this in committee. I'm sure I hear a positive feedback, so let's keep working on it. I just have to say that we must move now; we cannot just sit and wait for the European Union; we must help to bring about the change in the European Union that is needed and not think that others are doing it. Of course, a special thanks to the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Free Greens, who support the proposal. However, I look forward to the committee reading and hope that we can meet about something good that can actually help change a sector and that makes it possible for us to defend and like fashion and clothing in the future too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161235	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161238	It's just very short. I would just like to express my thanks for the proposal made by the rapporteur. It is, of course, nice to have a lot of good and important information that we get from it, and of course also that the rapporteur loves fashion. I may not love it so much, but it is true that we need to change something. I'd like to sign for that. Like the rapporteur, I also hear many extremely positive statements from the House here, so I hope that, of course, we in the committee will find each other so that we can come up with something positive and forward-looking: hopefully, a report later. Just a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161318	It is always good when we can show new sides of ourselves to each other as rapporteurs, but I am sure that we will come up with something that can also be both a push and a working tool for the Minister to continue working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161332	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161334	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur has heard that the Green Group supports the proposal, so I will now come up with a provocative question. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that the clothes that are most sustainable are the clothes that are not being produced?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161352	Yes, and the food we don't eat has no climate impact at all; the transport we don't make is how you can put it up. I think it is really about saying that how can we think sustainability into the way we produce and design and consume? That is the purpose. I think it would be a pity if we had an approach that was about a total asceticism, because I do not think that is the right way forward. But it is clear that, for example, we have to do something about it. could buy some clothes that could both be repaired and kept, but of course also change, i.e. again, because we like to dress and look like our way and also express ourselves through clothes. Everyone in public space does. So how do we think much more of it into the whole start-up phase and end-use; change, repair, etc.? I think that is actually the most sustainable thing, because that is where we can think long-term.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161446	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161448	After all, it is not that I disagree entirely, but I am just thinking that we have huge consumption. You can see that when you walk in pedestrian streets. It says clothes racks with cheap clothes, and people buy it because it's cheap. And we hear time and time again people tell stories about their lockers that are abounding and that they have no clothes to wear anyway. So I think there is a need for a change in culture. But I would just like to ask you something else, and it is not provocative, but an open question: if you get this CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161525	First, to the first thing about this, with the excessive production and consumption: yes, there is. I heard at one point about a study from England about solid fashion, that is, this fast fashion. There was a study that showed that a piece of clothing was used six times from the time you bought it until you threw it out for incineration. Well, six times. Then it can be produced quite so organic and something like that, it will never be sustainable. And then I completely forgot what the rapporteur asked afterward. Oh, yeah, CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161555	Time's up, too. I would point out that you can always have another round if that is what you think you want. But no one wants that. That is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161621	The debate is open. Minister of the Environment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214161625	First of all, I would like to thank the motion for a resolution. It is, of course, the case that what is stated here in the proposal is the desire to give municipalities the right of veto over the establishment or extension of livestock farming in the municipality and also towards coastal clam farming. If it sounds a bit like I am going to repeat myself in relation to something that we have already debated in this Chamber, then yes, it is not because I have a wish to do so, but it is because about a year and a half ago we dealt with an almost identical motion for a resolution in relation to the municipalities' ability to refuse applications for the expansion of livestock production on the basis of an overall assessment. So there will of course be some repetitions, and I will start with the part about livestock regulation that is at the Ministry of the Environment's discretion. The question of mussels is really a matter for the Minister of Food, but I am responsible here today for the overall motion for a resolution. The livestock law reflects a balancing of the often contradictory considerations of industry on the one hand and also of environment on the other by the establishment, modification or expansion of livestock production on the other. The regulation must protect the environment, such as: the environment and neighbours, while ensuring a predictable framework for the industry, which enables production to be developed so that it remains both economically and environmentally sustainable. As with the previous motion for a resolution, the authors of this motion for a resolution point to a number of considerations which are not considered to be adequately taken into account, among others. the possibilities for self-determination of municipalities have been reduced over the years. That is why I think it is very good to review and explain the main thrust of the changes made to livestock regulation since the first livestock legislation came into force in 2007. It established the basic principle that the authorisation or authorisation of livestock farming must ensure that there is no significant influence on the environment, primarily by providing guidance on the level of protection to be respected. A revision of the livestock law in 2011 established the general levels of protection that we know today. In this way, the possibility for municipalities to set specific local levels of protection for discharges of ammonia from livestock installations in particular was limited. The reason for this was that, on the basis of the guidance guidelines, a very diverse practice had developed from municipality to municipality, i.e. it was very different, and there was also a great deal of time spent establishing the local levels of protection here, namely long processing time. The extent of the municipalities' assessments was also limited by the amendment of the Act in 2017, but it was only about the possibility for municipalities to make concrete assessments in relation to the spread of manure on the land, since with the amendment of the law the protection levels of the land were lifted out of the concrete decisions and transferred them to national general rules. So the legislation must ensure that the levels of protection are the same throughout the country and that, in addition, farmers are also treated equally across municipal boundaries. In addition, there is the question of shorter processing times, which were also part of the wish behind the amendment of the law. As I also said when dealing with the motion for a resolution, B 113, which we dealt with last year, there has never been any possibility of rejecting animal regulation on the sole grounds of, for example: local planning considerations as long as the protection levels were respected. As I have said, consideration of nature and its neighbours is given to the central levels of protection for ammonia and odour and to the fact that there must be no significant influence on the environment as a result, for example, of: noise, dust, fly genes, etc. If the conditions laid down by the municipality cannot ensure that there is no significant impact from livestock farming, then the municipalities must refuse. Following both the discussion here of the latest resolution, but I would also like to say a great deal on the basis of the requests made by a number of municipalities and also on the basis of a request from Radicale's rapporteur, Zenia Stampe, I asked the Danish Environmental Protection Agency to update its guidance on livestock, so that it is now clear that the municipalities have considerable opportunities to make a concrete assessment of the environmental impact of local conditions by approving livestock farming. This has also been emphasised in a specific case where the Environmental and Food Complaints Board overruled a decision by Esbjerg Municipality on environmental approval for the expansion of a cattle farm, as it was found that the proposed construction was not compatible with the landscape values in the area. So even though the municipality assumed that it was unable to issue a refusal in the specific case, the Environmental and Food Complaints Board came up with a counter-conclusion. There isn't just the ability, but there should be a refusal. I am thinking of the background that clarification of guidance has just been important for the municipalities in order to make that clear. Allowing municipalities to veto because they want a different development for the municipality will create both a precarious environment for the industry and for the neighbours, and there will also be major differences between the municipality and the municipality, even in contrast to the development which I assume the proposers actually want to be able to reject here, but there will also be the opposite case. So in the government we think it is a sensible principle that livestock farming should be treated equally across municipal boundaries, and that is also the way we regulate other industries. I am aware that there has been a structural development which has the consequence that we also see larger and larger livestock farming being built in Denmark for the concern of both citizens and municipalities. As I have said, I have also taken these enquiries seriously with the updating of the guidance, and now we have also received that decision from the Environmental and Food Complaints Board. I have also started a literature study on the health consequences for livestock neighbours, which was completed in December 2020 and which I have previously informed the Committee on the Environment and Food, showed the need for further studies. In the motion for a resolution, the authors also point out that municipalities should be able to refuse the extension of livestock farming with reference to the achievement of their own climate objectives. As I said last year, climate is not a concern for livestock regulation. But now, after long discussions too, we have reached an historically broad agreement on a green conversion of Danish agriculture with concrete instruments to ensure a reduction in climate gases from, among others, Denmark. livestock production. It is also expected that the agreement will be implemented as soon as possible by specific changes in livestock regulation. That is why the government cannot support the resolution as it stands here for that part. As far as mussel farming is concerned, as I have said, I have obtained contributions from the Minister for Food. Mussels are healthy and climate-friendly food. Mussels are common in the Danish marine waters. They grow where there is a base on which the Muslim heirs can settle, and where there is nourishment in the water, which provides a breeding ground for algae that the clam eats. Mussels therefore extract nutrient salts from the seawater. In this way, mussel farming helps to improve the marine environment. In Limfjorden there are good physical conditions and, at the same time, sufficient nourishment for efficient production. Traditionally, line farming has been involved, but in recent years several breeders have chosen the so-called pipe and grid system or the so-called smart farms, which are a more intensive form of production and are also more visible on the surface. This has raised local concerns about the outlook and about the impact on the marine environment locally. In 2020, the Danish Fisheries Authority saw a large increase in applications for new mussel farms, both applications for so-called cultural banks, where mussels are laid out on the bottom, and applications for rearing plants in water column. New locations had been applied for in areas with several existing plants and therefore there may be a concentration of plants. The cooperation with DTU Aqua will examine whether this concentration can have an impact on habitat areas. In addition to the visual genes, citizens and green organisations have expressed concern about the impact of the seabed under the installations in areas without sufficient water flow. In June of this year, in 2021, on the basis of the many new applications and the expressed concern about environmental impacts, a stop was introduced for new mussel farms. The purpose of the stop is to have time to develop a new up-to-date set of rules, a period of reflection. The plan shall be translated into a management model in which activities with shellfish farming are placed optimally. At the same time, account must be taken of fishing, recreational activities and surroundings. There is already a principle in the management of the territorial sea for mussel farming, seaweed plants and other installations at sea that a consultation of applications should be carried out in which objective justifications from the consultation parties, including the municipalities, can be taken into account. Work on the new management model for mussel farming will focus on the consideration of municipal planning. In addition, it is part of the work to ensure that the effects of the breeding activities on nature and the environment are well-lit both at general and concrete levels, so that Denmark's obligations under the EU's Nature and Environment Directives are met. The new regulatory framework will be developed with contributions from the Committee on Clam Production, which is composed of stakeholders from green NGOs, the farming and fisheries industry, research institutions and KL. The government cannot therefore support this part of the resolution either. It is not recommended to depart from the general principle of consultation in favour of a municipal right of veto. A municipal right of veto will result in unequal management in coastal municipalities, whereby breeders will not be treated equally across municipal boundaries. If the municipalities are to have a right of veto, it must also be possible to argue why such a right should not also apply to others. Finally, as I said, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries has introduced a stop for new mussel farming and is developing an overall plan for mussel farming. The work may include the possibility of greater local influence on the location of mussel farming under a general scheme of municipal planning. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214162749	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214162750	I am a little disappointed that the Social Democrats are so zealous in protecting everything that arose from the blue agricultural package. Why are you so nervous about giving the municipalities more influence? We have municipalities that act differently. Let's just look at the construction that's planned around here so that people can settle down. It's a variety of handling that's going on. Some municipalities do not want any more growth at all; other municipalities have a strategy to grow strongly. There, the municipalities are allowed to have an influence on the physical environment. And then we can have some municipalities, for example. I would like to give tourism a very high priority, because it has a very high value, that there is a clean nature, that there are clean beaches and that, after all, it collides with the expansion of livestock farming and causes local problems. Can the Minister not see that we should give the municipalities greater freedom to decide their own development locally?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214162857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214162858	First of all, I think it is important to say one thing. Now I also know the history of the agricultural package, and we have discussed it very much in this Chamber, and I think we have come to a much better place where we now have a historically broad agricultural agreement. However, the regulation of livestock farming, which I also mentioned just now, did not start with the agricultural package. And there has not been that, too, I said, the possibility that applications could be refused on the basis of a holistic view, and this has always been a starting point in relation to the levels of protection. However, I think it is extremely important, both that we as a municipality can help plan, but also that we can include the necessary local considerations, which have been less obvious before, and where therefore there has also been a need to clarify precisely for the municipalities, that there is the possibility of taking local considerations into account in the actual assessment. And that is exactly what we have seen now in relation to the case I set out in relation to Esbjerg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214162952	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214162954	It is of course interesting if a change in a decree means that the municipalities have much greater influence. Today, the Minister has mentioned one example of a case which has so far fallen to the advantage of the municipalities. We have yet to see that municipalities can be broadly justified in relation to the local priorities they choose to have. In other words, we are about to achieve a water framework directive in which we have to significantly reduce nitrogen pollution to the oceans and where some municipalities have a huge interest in ensuring that it is complied with, so that tourism does not suffer. Can the Minister not see that there are advantages in the fact that the municipalities have a greater influence?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163033	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163034	Yes, but the rapporteur also acknowledges that, in relation to the case we have now seen here with Esbjerg, the municipality did not believe that it could make a different decision, that is to say, reject it. You couldn't just have to, and that's why I thought that Mrs. Zenia Stampe had a very good point in saying that with the guidance there has been, many municipalities have been in doubt. At any rate, the rules have now been clarified as to what are some local concerns that can be included in relation to the assessment that needs to be made, because we want to take care of the good life in the countryside.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163109	Sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163110	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I think it sounds a little bit to the Minister as if we should say no to these extensions if they are a major nuisance to the local area with smell and heavy traffic and these things. But the reality is that when you go out there and talk to these people who have experienced increases in livestock production, it is extremely disturbing to them that they experience increased traffic at the children's school, that there are smell genes. I've been out there myself, and I've seen how a pig factory like this can stink. That is why I just do not think that the Minister's speech completely hits the reality that many of these citizens are experiencing. I would like to hear something from the Minister. There are plenty of people in her own party who want to do something about this. It is Christina Hansen, Mayor of Holbæk, and Frands Fischer, Mayor of Skanderborg, who has wanted action on this. In addition to the citizens' input to this, does it not make an impression when there are some social democratic mayors who actually want to stop these enlargements, but cannot be allowed to do so because the government will not give them that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163217	First of all, I think it is important to say, as I said just now, that there has never been any possibility of a refusal being made solely on the basis of an overall view. We have had levels of protection that have been set nationally. It is also true, moreover, that both the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who was just before, and the SF's rapporteur, are generally concerned that we ensure a high level of national protection. Does this mean that local conditions should not be involved? No, it does not, and that is exactly why I have also been concerned to look at the guidance and have said that if there is any doubt about what one can do, then it must at least be clarified. And we have now seen an example of this in the Environmental and Food Complaints Board. So I think it is important that the municipalities also address local concerns, and this applies regardless of whether there are social democratic mayors or other mayors. That is also why we have taken the representations from the municipalities seriously, but we are also saying very clearly that we want there to be uniform treatment across the country. This is also the way we regulate other industries in Denmark, but you have to look at the local conditions that can be about noise or dust, and there can be scientific conditions in terms of being able to give approval or refusal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163325	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163325-2	I did not say that it was only from a general point of view that it was possible to reject it in the past, but after all it is the case that the municipalities do not really have the great opportunity to stop these enlargements unfortunately. I would like to know why it is so important to protect the industry that it trumps the importance of protecting the citizens who feel affected by this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163400	I do not think it is fair to say that the concern for citizens and the experience that some citizens have from being bothered by this does not have a weight just because you do not necessarily agree with the SF's resolution. There must be room for political disagreement. So I think it is important that, just as I have said here, we have made clear what kind of local conditions we can think about. We are also looking at the rules in general to ensure that the genetic distances that must be observed are also respected. So it's extremely important that we do all that. After all, we have also drawn up a very broad agricultural agreement to ensure green development in agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163438	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163438-2	Thank you. I think that many times when we have tabled a resolution in the Free Greens, we are met by the view that it is important that there is self-government in the municipalities. So I think this is going exactly the opposite way. So why is it that it is not important here, but important other times?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163500-2	There, I think, we may be moving quite far into the upper layers of air in the sense that there are plenty of places where we have a national regulation. Nor have I heard the Greens say: let us abolish all national regulations because we have municipalities. Are we in the Social Democratic Party happy with local self-government? Yeah. Are our mayors doing well? Yes, I think so, and I also think it is important that there are many decisions that lie in municipal self-government. But we also need to make a concrete assessment. And here we have some national protection values in which we say: those levels must then have some local considerations, as the municipalities are best placed to deal with, i.e. the issue of noise, of dust, of landscape conditions, where you as a municipality have the best knowledge of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163547	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163548	I have an example from my home municipality, where there is a small town with a farm on the outskirts where there is a pig farmer who wants to expand with a pig factory. The whole town is against it, and the city council wants to say no, but they don't have the opportunity to say no. So it ends with a huge dispute between the citizens and the city council. It is a very bad situation to put them in, and this is where the municipalities would make higher demands than the national requirements. But I think it is fine with national requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163618-2	Then we do not disagree that there should be national levels of protection, and that is exactly what the government is also standing at. There has also been a broad majority here since the introduction of livestock regulation. But it is not the same as not always having to deal with whether those levels of protection are sufficient. That is also why the literature study which I mentioned has also been carried out. So, of course, we must also be responsive to the citizens who experience there may be a nuisance, and look at the guidance and look at the criticism that is from the municipalities. But that does not change the fact that today we also have the national standard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163653	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163654	Thank you. I have visited three places where there have been municipal politicians who were very interested in being able to refuse because they could see the high costs it had for the local community. It was at Tuse Næs at Holbæk, and there I don't think it happened, because the mood was simply too bad, I think, for the manufacturer to want to build it. But in Havnsø in Kalundborg Municipality and Glumsø in Næstved Municipality, the municipalities have just said: House by, we can't do anything. I have even sent the new guide to the municipality of Næstved, and they have said: There is nothing we can do. That's why we just can't use those answers for much. However, I do not think that this is ultimately about the individual procedure, but it is also about the attitude towards rural development. It becomes so clear when you have the individual case, because then the question is: what is most important? Is it that a pig farmer can create a huge factory that is both incredibly ugly and destroys all the idyllic and provides plenty of transport etc. etc. That is, in fact, the question and not so much the process and so on. That's the one.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163810	Thank you! Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163812	But now we have just made an incredibly broad, historically broad agricultural agreement on how we will develop Danish agriculture in a greener direction, both when we look at the environmental image and when we look at the climate image. I know that it has not been a strong demand from the parties that also raise the issue here today that this regulation should be changed. So I'm just wondering, since we've made the very, very broad framework of how Danish agriculture should develop, why you haven't had it as one of the things you brought to the negotiating table. But that does not change what we are discussing here, and we say: there must be room for both, on the one hand, that we have national levels of protection and, on the other hand, that there are local conditions which must then be included in the local assessment of an application.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163900	Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163900-2	But I would like to say that we have abolished the large stable system, which provided support for these huge mega-buildings. We already have. We are also quite a lot of people working on the conversion of Danish agriculture away from animal production to plant-based agriculture. It is for the sake of the climate, but it is certainly also for the sake of rural areas, because we can only see that animal production is not just straining the climate and the environment; it is also wildly and insanely straining rural development on all parameters other than precisely that production. That's where we can see that our paths are parting. There the social democracy, the government just the production, the farmer and perhaps even the slaughterhouse workers are given priority over the people who live around the factories.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163942	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214163943	I do not think this is a fair presentation, because we, as a government, have played out with an extremely ambitious initiative on the whole of agriculture. This is also what we have negotiated month after month to make sure that not only did we get an ambitious agreement that was very important to the government but also a broad agreement so that we could ensure that it would become something even after an election and also contrary to the way in which it has been done before, when it was decided that it should be based solely on block policy. So I think we have just been able to say that we must achieve some very ambitious green goals for the development of Danish agriculture. I grew up very close to a slaughterhouse myself, and of course there may be dilemmas. That is one of the things we must listen to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164021	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. And having also dealt with some technical problems with the platform, we move on to the rapporteur's round, and now it is Mr. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164101	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor and also thank you for the proposal that has been put forward and which we are debating today. It is very exciting to be able to discuss this in this Chamber, there is no doubt about it, and it is also an important issue. There is something familiar about this motion for a resolution which we are debating; it is, as the Minister also mentioned, about a year and a half ago that we also discussed it. First of all, the position of the Social Democratic Party has not really changed since we debated it last year and a half ago. With the motion for a resolution we are debating today, the SF would of course like to require the government to give the municipalities the right of veto over the establishment or extension of livestock farming and over coastal mussel farming. This should be done on the basis of the proposal of the authors of the proposal, on the basis of an overall view of municipal planning. There is just one major challenge with that proposal, and that is that the rules are as they are today. We have them today in order to ensure uniform treatment of the profession and uniform treatment of environmental considerations across the country. That was the argument we used when we introduced national rules in 2017. It is a basic good principle that the treatment of the profession is the same, regardless of where you are in the country; that is what the Social Democratic Party thinks, and we must stick to it now. This does not mean, of course, that we should not look at what it is like in terms of environmental impact etc. out with the local population and in local districts. We would, of course, like to take a look at that too, but nevertheless we believe that it actually works as it is now. However, I would just like to highlight a few points. Firstly, since the last motion for a resolution about a year and a half ago, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has asked the Danish Environmental Protection Agency to update the guide for the livestock sector, as she herself explained, so that it is clear that the municipalities have the opportunity to make an assessment of local conditions in connection with, for example, noise or other forms of nuisance. For the municipalities, it is an opportunity to refuse expansion of livestock farming based on local conditions. Secondly, we have reached an agreement on the green conversion of our agriculture, and this must help to increase agricultural climate action. We've made that deal, it's only two months old, and there we have among other things. adopted a reduction target of 60%. in 2030 and a doubling of the organic area. I certainly have the expectation that with that agreement we will look at the contribution of agriculture to the green transformation of our society, also forward-looking, of course. When it comes to clam farming, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries has made a stop for new mussel farms. It is done to ensure and to be sure that the rules are up-to-date. The Minister is working on a new management model, including now, for mussel farming, and it must cover where shellfish farming activities are most optimally carried out. This work takes into account both municipal planning and environmental and natural impacts. In addition, as in the case of mussel farming, as in the case of livestock farming, the rules must be uniform, so that among other things. the profession is treated equally across the country. In view of the above, I would like to say on behalf of the Socialist Group that we do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164434	I should like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164436	Thank you. I would like to ask a really simple question, and it is whether the Social Democrats really do not think that this is a rather modest proposal, in relation to what could be proposed when we talk about livestock production. In other words, we are in the midst of a climate disaster; we are facing a biodiversity crisis; we are dealing with municipalities that want to protect their citizens better, who would rather give priority to the environment and who would like to ensure that the well-being of citizens is good and all of this. Compared with this, there could be all sorts of increased regulation. One could put a stop to the number of pig factories; one could demand that there should be fewer of them; one could make all kinds of proposals. But the only proposal here is as simple as that some municipalities should have the right to say no if they have a wish to do so themselves. Is it not actually a rather quiet and quiet proposal that should be able to be accepted by the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164541	On the basis of what is being asked, i.e. whether this is not a modest proposal, I would say that no, it is not. So, I do not think it is a modest thing to try to impose on a government that they should change the legislation, especially in such a basic area as giving veto rights to the municipalities. So, no, I don't think so. The starting point is, for example, that we are going to have to do something about it. would like to see biodiversity increased. That doesn't mean that we wouldn't want to, just because we disagree with the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164607	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164608	No, it is not a modest thing to impose on the government to do things, but that is what the motion for a resolution is doing. Well, that's the way it is when you make a proposal... it's for the government to do something. My point was simply that this is not a total closure of pig production or a disaster for the industry, but just a right for the municipalities to say no if they have a wish. In any case, I think that is a relatively modest demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164638	But we note from the Social Democrats that there is an opportunity for the municipalities to say no to the expansion of animal husbandry and also, at the moment, to the expansion of mussel farming. Well, I know there are many examples of this, but there are also examples of the fact that you are expected, for example, as in the municipality of Esbjerg, which the minister mentioned, that they can say no to the extension of some of these animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164704	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164707	I am very much opposed to this alignment of all municipalities. I really think it is good if the municipalities and the city councils put their own mark on their municipalities. I think it would be really cool if some municipalities were to say: we really are investing in nature, biodiversity and local tourism, and that this is more important than any pig farmer being able to expand his herd. I'd be quite comfortable giving it to the municipalities. It might also be that a municipality said: there are certain parts of our municipality where there should be no more livestock but fewer, and then there may be other parts of the municipality where there may be another plan for the agricultural industry. I would be quite sure that it was left to the municipalities and left it up to the town councils which have just been democratically elected by the people. I cannot understand why the Social Democrats want this alignment, where, in the case of pigs, there must be the same rules throughout the country. I really think you should reconsider your position in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164811	Thank you for the question. It can be said that, in the same way as the environment and the citizens of the municipalities are very important, we really also think that the profession is important in the local areas. This also means that we would like it to be what to call it predictable, because it is important for the industry to be able to foresee as far as possible where, for example, a company can be based on the rules that are now in place, and this also applies across the municipalities. Therefore, it makes great sense that we have a uniform management of something as basic as what your factory or company should look like, for example, and what environmental requirements there are for it. That's not stupid. We in the Social Democratic Party think so. We thought so yesterday, and we still think so, namely that we must, of course, provide good conditions for the business community in the same way as we do for the environment and for the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164905	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164905-2	Now we have just seen examples of municipalities such as Holbæk and Skanderborg who would have liked to have had the opportunity to say no to an expansion of livestock production, because they would also like to take into account, for example, the ability to attract citizens to their municipalities. This means that a population increase can be something that is locally weighted higher, that is, more people than more pigs; that this can be their local priority. You do not allow the municipalities to do that when you stick to the fact that you will not allow it to be just a little different around the country. Does the rapporteur not see that this is unreasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214164941	Well, just because we do not agree with SF's premise does not mean that we do not see well that it should of course be looked at, that the municipalities should have the opportunity to have their own administration, and that the autonomous principle is of course important. We still think it is. And we still believe that today there is an opportunity for the municipalities to say no in the environmental treatment that is now in the municipality. This is, of course, an important principle which we still support.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165009	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165037	Thank you. This proposal from the SF has already been examined by both the Minister and the previous rapporteur. The proposal would, of course, result in an entirely random and very different environmental treatment in the municipalities around the country. There must of course be equal opportunities for citizens and businesses, and that is why we are voting against the SF proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165104	Thank you to the rapporteur. That just gave rise to a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165110	It was a very rapid rejection by the Left, which is why I would really like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not very reasonable for us to be able to take a local decision on these matters as well. That is what this proposal is all about, so you can say: what is going on here is probably a bit too much; we want to be able to step in as a local environment and say no. Does the Left not think that it is important for the locals to be consulted in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165136-2	In Denmark we have one environmental policy and that is how it should be. We should not have 98 different environmental policies, which is why we say no to this SF proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165145	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165145-2	I am trying to ask again, and it may be that the rapporteur will answer this time: does the rapporteur not think it is important to be heard locally when you live near something that is so effective, such as a huge pig stall can be for a local environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165206	There must of course be uniform rules and uniform options, whether you live on Lolland-Falster, in North Jutland, on Funen or elsewhere. There we can't have this completely random, if I may say so, assessment of what's going to come out of this. There must be uniform rules in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165226	Sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165227	Sir. Erling Bonnesen says that with SF's policy, it will be such a little coincidence whether you can build more pig factories or not. And you might have to ask if Mr. Erling Bonnesen thinks that it is by chance who sits on the city council and by chance what the citizens want. In other words, what we are proposing is that politicians should be able to influence this; that locals should have the power to say something. I guess it has nothing to do with coincidence... it probably has something to do with local democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165257	It will be the battlefield of chance in relation to what becomes decisive in this area. But I fully understand that the SF wants to get rid of pig production. We just don't want that in the Left. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165308	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165308-2	We do not believe that granting municipalities the right to say no is tantamount to eliminating pig production. One final comment to the rapporteur of the Left: I know that the Left would like to be a party that fights for the people of rural areas and fights for people in rural areas, and I actually have quite a lot of respect for that. But I also hope that we will reflect a little bit on whether the development of these years, with more pig factories and with these nuisances for the citizens, is really what we want in rural areas. Because there are plenty of places where they have a desire to go another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165343-2	Well, the rapporteur is absolutely right that in the Left we are fighting a lot for rural areas and for growth and development and jobs and very many other good things in rural areas. That is precisely what the rapporteur for the SF is right to thank for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165356	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165359	The rapporteur is, as is the chorus that thinks it should be the same in all municipalities. After all, the rapporteur has previously been the mayor of a small municipality on Funen. I would like to know whether the rapporteur did not think it reasonable that the town council in Broby should be able to dispose of its own way when it came to urban growth in different places, i.e. that the town council could adopt its local plans, even if the local plans could be different from that of the neighbouring municipality, so that the settlement policy that could be in the municipalities on Funen could be different from that of the city councils. There was full publicity about that, so it was well in consultation and it was dealt with several times in the city council. Was it not reasonable for there to be that difference in local planning in different municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165455	On the contrary, it was a good thing that there were uniform rules so that we could not, if we may say so, shop among the different municipalities, because there would then be, if we may say so, the lowest common denominator in making rules that could expose the citizens of the municipality concerned to something that we did not want to be exposed to. Whether it is a carport, a pig house or other buildings, there must of course be uniform standards and rules on how to make them, wherever they are in the country. Then there are standardized rules that must be complied with, and they are then laid down from here. That is why, as I said at the outset, there must also be one environmental policy; there must be no 98 different and random policies.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165535	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165536	Yes, there is a building code that applies throughout the country, just as there may be some welfare rules for pigs that are the same throughout the country. But in relation to what growth you choose in the individual municipality, I am quite confident that you can choose it yourself, so that there might be less or greater urban growth in Broby than in other average cities on Funen. That's what I'm appealing to. Does the rapporteur not see that municipal self-government can cope with the fact that, what should be said, it should relate to what development one wants in one's own municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165607	Yes, and there are plenty of different opportunities that you can compete on within the individual municipalities. For example: We in my own municipality also liked to be very quick about processing, so that we could just get things going.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165620	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165623	I just want to hear what Mr. Erling Bonnesen will say to the Danes who live in the countryside and who experience that a huge factory suddenly moves into the neighboring ground, perhaps 100 m away. If you are registered as agriculture, there is not at all the same protection that others have. What do you want, sir? Erling Bonnesen actually say to them? Will he say, "That's the way it is, or is it just too bad?"
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165658	Not long ago, I have been visiting a place where they are building a new, larger pig stall, and there they make a great deal of living up to the rules that we ourselves lay down in here, about smell and air cleaning, that is, by using the latest technology. And that's kind of smart; that's the way to go in that area. Technological development needs to be speeded up even more so that the genes that will be involved can be minimized.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165724	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165724-2	But what if the neighbours say: yes, it is also very good that some new technology is being set up, but what about the big trucks driving past school? What about them when our kids are going on the road? What are we gonna do about it? Because it doesn't make it particularly attractive to live here, although it is cozy and idyllic when our children suddenly have to drive on a road where there are transports with manure and feed all the time. And by the way, it looks incredibly ugly. I think you can even say that. There are many beautiful, beautiful landscapes that suddenly get such a factory. It is not particularly beautiful and idyllic if you have moved to the countryside because you think it is wonderful. What we, sir... Erling Bonnesen tell them?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165808	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165808-2	As far as road safety is concerned, whether it is close to agriculture or close to anything else, then everything that can be done must be done. I'm sure you do, too. This is what we do here from our own Committee on Transport, and we do so locally when we are faced with it. There is no doubt about that. Road safety must be in order as well as possible. In relation to the location, I have also noticed that several places where new plants are being built, farmers have also improved and improved and gradually very skilled at getting the buildings located, at least in most cases, so that they bother as little as possible, including by doing sheltering and such things around them. In fact, there is in many cases a good dialogue with your local municipality about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165853	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then we move on to Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214165913	Thank you. And thank you for the suggestion. One can look at the proposal and then think that it is to pay tribute to the municipal self-government that the municipalities should be allowed to decide. One might then wonder why SF believed that the municipalities could not find out about childcare. There one simply had to say from Christiansborg: Childcare is simply not in the municipalities; we must control it in here from Christiansborg; it must be decided at Christiansborg. However, when it comes to livestock farming and mussel farming, it is more understood locally. In fact, I do not agree with that. It must also be said, when you heard the debate that was before, that it is true that when there are such actions, it may also be a road or something else there will always be a local debate about how it affects the environment and nature and biodiversity and all the other things. And then I think you can easily fall into that ditch where it's easier to say no. But then we will not have any development either. We should just bear in mind that the things we are talking about here, livestock farming and mussel farming, are in fact some of the things that make it possible to decide, in relation to the budget law, that we should have minimum standards in the area of day-care. For it creates growth and employment and the economy, and we are a tax-financed society, and when someone produces something out there, we tax the product, and we tax the labour income that the employees employed in the companies in question earn, and then you can make some welfare on it. I fully agree that you have to think a lot about when you make these production areas, whether it is on land in relation to livestock farming, or at sea in relation to clam farming, but I think that is clearly a responsibility that we have here at Christiansborg in relation to setting up the rules for it. We should not throw away responsibility and place it in the individual city councils. It is a responsibility that we must assume. Therefore, we cannot support the proposal to put it out, but we recognise, of course, that it is important that we constantly move in and also take in those inputs and listen to what the citizens say and also listen to what our various local politicians and mayors say in relation to the development that is taking place in rural areas. But it is also important that something is done in rural areas, and now it is the case that livestock farming is located in rural areas, and these are good, solid jobs which also provide money for Danish society. So we cannot support the proposal here to add to the municipalities that they have a right of veto against livestock farming. And if it was finally that one really was for municipal self-government, it should also be the case that they should have a right of veto for there could also be a municipality out there saying that that is what they really, really want and that they want to compromise. But we don't think you should. We also want to steer that from in here, and that is what we mean in the Danish People's Party too. We shouldn't have such a cowboyland where you can just do anything out there. So, unfortunately, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214170208	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we can move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214170223	Thank you. We support the proposal; we did so last time it was put forward, where I think it was Mr Enhedslisten's. Søren Egge Rasmussen, who put it forward. We support it again, not only because we think it makes sense for there to be a municipal right of self-determination, but also because we simply disagree with the weighting between professions, that is to say agriculture in this case, and then local residents. That is, after all, the balance which, for me at least, when I have been out talking to some of the citizens affected by it, seems quite wrong. In other words, these are areas where people are tried to attract, so that they can contribute to rural life and with tax revenue, but what they are then offered is that they may risk the establishment of a pig factory the size of yes, 3.4.5,6,7 sports halls on the abandoned neighbouring property. We talk a lot about smell, and it is also important, especially when you talk pigs, but I also think you should consider that the plants or factories that are now being set up for livestock farming are not agriculture, as farming was in the old days, it is industry. And I understand that it was said in the old days: 'Well, if you move to the countryside, you have to live with agriculture'. But today people are told: if you move to the countryside, then you have to live with the industry. And I cannot understand why we are not really creating a higher level of equality between agriculture and industry, because that is what agriculture has in many cases developed into: industry. We are making industrial zones there, because we want industry and industry, but we also know that we have to take people into account. We cannot bid them that there is a huge factory with heavy transport right next to where they live, but that is the reality we are offering people in the country. And that is why it has been quite an eye-opener for me to see that the Left, which has previously been known as the country's party, is not now the side of the rural population. It is the agricultural party, it is the agricultural party, and it is just a weighting for reasons which we cannot see ourselves in at all and then, of course, I could also mention something with our history as a housekeeper's party. In reality, however, it is a question of recognising that agriculture is something different today than it was 30,40,50 years ago, and if we want an agriculture that is industrialised, has economies of scale, all the advantages of having a large agriculture, well then we must also start to regulate it as an industry, and then we must take account of the people who live near agriculture, taking into account that it is not just agriculture as it was in the old days, it is industry, and there we have to go into more regulation. We are in favour of giving municipalities greater autonomy, but we are also in favour of having a general view of tougher regulation. I mean, just living on a farm, where you have such a leisure farm, and there are a lot of properties that are registered as agriculture, although in reality you do not really practice farming and where there are quite different smell gene requirements, etc., means that you are so much less protected than people living near industry. And such rules, which are really general rules, I think we should look at too, so that in general there is only better protection for those who have chosen to live in the countryside and who thus contribute to a development that I think we are many who would like to support, namely a development where it is not only attractive in cities but also where there are many people who want to stay in the countryside and move to the countryside. But it can be said that the trend, the trait or the balance we are working against in such a way as to treat the rural population in this way, i.e. by turning their areas into industrial zones with much less protection than they can experience if they live on the Lyngbyvej in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214170655	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214170659	It is just a short one, and I probably only have one comment to make. What the rapporteur says is that in the province, in the countryside, you should not build large buildings, because then there will be lots of cars and there will be traffic and heavy transport, and that is all something worse. Well, what's to be built out there? What about a large new primary school in a rural area where there are buses and everything in the morning with schoolchildren and people who drop off their children, which creates a lot of infrastructure, or what about a windmill factory that you want to put out in the province? Does the rapporteur really believe that major construction works in the province should not be carried out anymore and that this should only be done within the large cities? In fact, I do not believe that there is anything to be done about the rural population. Then, in fact, it happens that our provincial areas are depopulated.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214170745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214170746	First of all, I have never heard anyone in the country complain that a new school was being built, even though it was large. In fact, I think it is a dream scenario for many small village communities to have a large local school. When it comes to what needs to be built at all and about industry, I would like to say first of all that it is necessary to build, but it can be planned. That's what we do with industry. There we have industrial zones and there are special rules, and as a municipality you have an influence on where they should lie, and then you can plan. We cannot do that with agriculture, because there they have the right to establish themselves if they comply with the smell gene requirements and so on. etc. I do not think, therefore, that without being an expert at all in the law of plans, industry and so on, one can simply suddenly build a huge factory in the country. I think that there will be some demands in relation to neighbours and so on, what is not when it is precisely a pig factory. For that is agriculture, and there are some rights other than those for industry, as far as I know. Perhaps that is where we should be inspired by the legislation in industry, because agriculture has become an industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214170856	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214170913	Thank you. I remember such a year and a half ago, it was in the spring of 2020 that we had a very good debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber, when the Enhedslisten had tabled a motion for a resolution that we should be able to allow municipalities to refuse applications for the expansion of livestock production on the basis of an overall assessment. In this context, it happened that it was the whole parliamentary basis that actually agreed that it should be tightened up, and the Radicals, I think, went somewhat further than most might have thought at that time. This is, of course, a line which I think has moved on and the three parties have achieved some very good results in terms of prioritising plant-based food production in Denmark and having had a significant impact on the content of the agricultural agreement in that area. So sometimes something new comes out of a debate. Now we have the SF's proposal here, which recycles the Enhedslisten's proposal from a year and a half ago, and then chooses to call it a veto rather than an overall assessment, when the municipalities must be given the opportunity to say no to the expansion of animal production. And that is quite fine: we are in favour of recycling in the Enhedslisten, so not a hard word that they have stolen our entire proposal in this resolution. I am quite confident and Enhedslisten is quite safe in giving the municipalities some additional opportunities, especially when looking at the cases that are around the municipalities. In other words, there are some municipalities that are real rural municipalities and where urban councils give priority to agriculture, and then we have some municipalities that are slightly more densely populated and that want to attract new inhabitants. And when I think of my homeland, I would never settle in Hesselballe, where there are some lovely little houses, but where there is also a large pig farm west of the city, and where, with what you see elsewhere, you can imagine that, instead of just a few large stables, it could be something that doubled or tripled in a short time, and then it wouldn't be nice to live in Hesselballe with smell genes from there. I think that we owe better solutions to rural residents, and that is not the case because we have had individual cases. We have just had so many inquiries from people living in the countryside who feel bothered by the expansion of animal production, and requests from council members who say that they have no real influence on these matters. I think that it is essential for the committee to find out whether the individual case from Esbjerg, which was apparently able to say no to an increase in livestock, was linked to some particular landscape considerations or what it was. Because if we have overlooked politically that there are possibilities in the announcement that has been modelled a little, then it is really fine, but let us just have a look at how many cases the revised notice has actually benefited a local population. I think that could be important to take along. Then I think it is very good that the SF has included the clam farming in this proposal. As a rule, the municipalities do not have any influence on the maritime territory. It stops, as it does at the docks, where they have influence, and that is not really fair, because there can be some significant activity on the other side of the municipal border, which at the border to the sea. Activities may take place such as: is up in Limfjorden, where there have been far too many applications for extensions of mussel farming, and I have noted that in a draft new marine plan it has also been taken into account, for example, that there is a need for a new marine plan. in the Bay of Aarhus could be such clam farming. I look forward very much to having a real negotiating process on that marine plan and getting it out. If anyone wants to eat mussels, use the clams that grow wild and that can then be taken in instead of raising clams of such low quality that it can only be used for animal feed. I think it's a good thing that SF brought that part. We are quite confident in giving the municipalities increased influence on the sea lying along their coasts. So the Enhedslisten can support this resolution and we look forward to a committee reading which will clarify whether the autonomy of the municipalities has been improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214171410	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214171433	Thank you for that, President. SF suggests that it should be up to the municipalities to be able to farm with animal food production in the countryside and to raise mussels in the fjords and coastal areas. There is no doubt that we must take care of Danish nature, fauna and biodiversity, and in the Conservative People's Party we have as our goal that we should be able to be familiar with our behaviour so that those who come after us will not blame us for our way of life and our doings and barns. On the contrary, we must deliver nature in better condition than we received it. That is why, of course, we must also ensure that the environmental protection law's requirements for vvm, i.e. the assessment of the impact on the environment, meet the requirements of this Parliament. We must also ensure that the country's municipalities administer the protected nature through mapping and recording, for example. We must also ensure the cultural landscapes so that the dikes do not break through, and the burial mounds and other ancient memories are not damaged. We have also recently reached a broad agreement on reducing nutrient emissions to our aquatic environment from the open country. Here the support to clean the waste water from the cities worked, and SF was unfortunately not very helpful here. After all, a lot of phosphorus is discharged in Denmark, which is, for example, a treatment of waste water in Germany. We also know that thousands of cubic metres of untreated waste water are often transported directly into the fjords and the marine environment if there is much rainfall in a short period of time. We would certainly like SF's help to stop this. But when it comes to the municipalities' right of veto, to whether there may be dairy cattle or whether there must be chickens raised in the countryside or mussels raised in the aquatic environment, it is far too much power to give the municipalities. The consequences in my optics would simply be incalculable. What we have just been to municipal elections in this parliamentary term might be legal would then perhaps be preventable in a future parliamentary term with a new city council. Here I am sure that it would be almost impossible to finance the professions against which the SF has opposition. I also think a little like this: should the municipalities also have a right of veto so that new motorways or new railway lines can be banned if a majority of the municipal council is opposed? We simply need to have some national levels where the legislation is the same. Anything else will kill the business community. That is why I am grateful to the Minister for putting his foot down here. In the Conservative People's Party, we will be voting against the SF's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214171752	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We can move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214171809	SF will give municipalities a right of veto to prohibit, for example: clam farming, and the reason for this is that mussel farming pollutes fjords and oceans. However, mussel farming improves the aquatic environment in Danish waters, and there is also a great potential for the production of mussels as healthy, sustainable and environmentally friendly food. This is at least some of the conclusions of the Ministry of the Environment and Food's report •Marine measures • description of the effects of the instruments and the status of the knowledge base from May this year. The report gathers knowledge from a wide range of reports and research projects on mussel farming. Jens Petersen is a professor at DTU Aqua and a contributor to the report. He hopes that the conclusions of the report will be an eye-opener and, at the same time, encourage the final scepticism towards mussel farming in the soil. He speaks among other things.: Research has repeatedly highlighted the great potential of mussel farming, and I have therefore been puzzled that mussel farming has often been presented as a potential threat to the environment and nature. With the new report in hand, I look forward to a professional and objective debate on how to use mussel farming in the future. The report shows, inter alia, how mussel farming contributes positively to the environment throughout the production chain. At the same time, mussels are an animal food with one of the lowest CO2 because they are neither fed nor medicated. In relation to livestock farming, the livestock law of 2019 regulates this issue of livestock farming and manure use. The law is nationwide and must help to protect nature, environment and landscape uniformly throughout Denmark. Then the development of livestock production and the use of manure can be carried out on a sustainable basis, respecting human life conditions and preserving animal and plant life on the basis of uniform and transparent rules. The livestock law thus gives the individual farmer, regardless of his place of residence, access to information and rights relating to the promotion of the best available technology. I agree with the Minister for the Environment when she says that applicants for livestock and mussel farming must meet the same requirements throughout the country. To give municipalities the possibility or right of veto of being able to grant refusals solely on the basis of an overall assessment where, for example, it is possible to: may stress that no further livestock production in the municipality will be desired, will create a precarious environment for the industry and for the neighbours. Large differences will arise from municipality to municipality if SF gets support for B 18. That is why it will be a no thank you to B 18 from New Citizens. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214172101	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance, and then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Free Greens, and that is Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214172121	In the Free Greens, we support the SF's proposal, which is, in part, a re-submission of Enhedslisten's proposal 2020, which we also voted in favour of. If we were to go all the way to the green blade, I would say that this issue should not have to be discussed at all. We need legislation that does not allow the large animal factories to expand, but leads to fewer animals and a sea plan that provides real protection for designated protected areas. In relation to animal production, it must be possible for the municipalities themselves to have an influence on the development of their local area so that they can safeguard their citizens and ensure a high level of nature protection, so that the farmers' desire to expand should not take precedence over the interests of citizens or nature planning. The extension of farms typically takes place in areas with small towns, where production is located at the edge of the city or inside the city, and it can have major consequences for the city's life, if you expand with large productions, where there will be ammonia vapours that can cause headaches and migraines, and that you do not get fresh air through the windows and sometimes have to search away from home when the smell becomes unbearable. I myself have seen it several times and have read about other places where it is actually a problem where citizens are really protesting about the extension of farms and where city council politicians would actually like to agree with them and thus use the right of veto which lies in this proposal but where they do not have the opportunity to do so. There will be great struggles, which are not really very constructive in terms of democracy and local democracy. Some minimum requirements in relation to the environment are very good, but municipalities must have the right to give veto to citizens for their sake and for the sake of possible nature plans. Growth must not stand in the way of concern for citizens and nature. We need ambitious municipalities which create good conditions for the citizens of rural areas and for nature and biodiversity. We do not need house prices suddenly to fall wildly in an area because a huge production is being created. Compared to the mussels, there is a problem with oxygen loss in our Danish waters, and this is mainly due to the emissions of nitrogen and phosphorus and thus the flowering of algae. Mussels eat algae and thus cleanse the water with a small CO2 Many, especially from the blue block, say that this is the solution to helping the water framework directive's state, and that is what we are quite right about. But the problem is that in some places the clams are not very appropriate, as people see the eel grass disappearing, the fish disappearing and the wild clams disappearing. That's what the anglers are experiencing. That is what the citizens of the region are experiencing. Therefore, there should be a balance in mussel farming that takes account of the overall ecosystem. The municipalities are, of course, the closest to them, and therefore they should be allowed to veto if there are too many mussel farming in one area. All in all, we would actually have liked the Agriculture Agreement to be more ambitious and to have less nutrient emissions in our waters, so that it was not so much a problem in relation to oxygen loss and other things that are unfortunate for ecosystems. We hope that the new plan for the sea, which will be discussed in the spring, will take account of some of these issues relating to mussel farming, for example. We must be able to protect areas of mussel farming where it is most appropriate in relation to ecosystems, so that local authorities do not need to take advantage of this right of veto. General environmental requirements are good, but municipalities must still be free to tighten them up and thus veto them, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214172546	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we would like to thank the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the Christian Democrats, and then we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214172603	Thank you. I've seen with my own eyes what pig factories can do to a community. I have visited some of the citizens here who are subject to these enlargements, among others. I have visited some people in Tingerup and Soderup, and if, as the food rapporteur, you have not been out talking to some of them, as this is about, I would really recommend that you do so. For what are the citizens out there experiencing? They experience bad smell, yes, in good Danish one can say that suddenly it stinks where they live. They are experiencing heavy traffic because there are a lot of trucks that need to go out there to keep this production going. I have even spoken to a citizen who has been awakened several times in the morning by the screams of the pigs when they are put on the pig transporter and have to be picked up after fattening. In addition, as has also been discussed in this House today, these pig factories are not always very pretty, they are not very rurally idyllic, and the massive ammonia pollution that also comes from production is therefore to be felt. What the Socialist People's Party is proposing today, the resolution we have tabled, is almost as modest in my view as it can possibly be. It is not even about closing pig factories, nor is it about putting a stop to the number of pig factories in Denmark, and it is not about increasing Christiansborg control or new strict rules for this production. We are no longer interfering, we are not doing all sorts of things drastically, we are doing something as simple as giving municipalities a little more power to protect their citizens, to make progressive choices. I think it is very modest and I think it is amazing that the government cannot meet us on this. In my optics, the genes that are in the local areas should, in themselves, be enough to be willing to give the municipalities this power, but there are still more arguments. We are in the midst of a climate disaster, a situation in which we know that we must drastically reduce animal production globally if we are to meet the target of 1.5 degrees in the Paris agreement. We are also in the midst of a biodiversity crisis, which is greatly affected by animal production and, above all, the large feed production that goes with it, and we are faced with a whole lot of municipalities that have an ambition to reduce their own climate impact and which do not share the ambition that it is important for Denmark to be world champions in pigs, but want to take a different path and perhaps invest more in tourism and to have some happy citizens who should not be faced with a whole lot of problems in connection with the expansion of this production. And then they can't even say no when we're dealing with all these things. I think that's amazing. What, then, is the argument that people should not have the right to say no locally? The only thing one really hears from in here is that it will be a pity for the industry that it loses the right to expand. I even heard from the Left that it would now be coincidence that one should have the right to create more pig factories at municipal level. No, it's not a coincidence at all. In concrete terms, it is about political desires that the citizens and politicians out there have a desire to reduce these expansions of production. It has nothing to do with chance; it has something to do with political ambition, political opinion and local power and influence. In reply to the argument about the right of the profession to extend the question, what about the right of citizens to say, what about people on the right of the country to live in a place that is not to be bothered by ammonia pollution and bad smell and heavy traffic etc., what about the right of municipalities to give priority to the climate crisis over pig barons? I think that is more important, and I think that this is an insanely biased priority given by the Folketing. The issue is actually one of the same when it comes to mussel farming, which we are also proposing should be possible to say away from locally, because mussel farming can cause local pollution and oxygen loss, and it also emits large greenhouse gases, so there is also a climate perspective, it takes up a great deal, and it privatises areas that could otherwise be used for recreational purposes, for sailing, etc. Right now, many authorisations are being granted to mussel farming, which is also problematic because they overlap with protected natural areas, and this can result in an imbalance in natural ecosystems with unpredictable consequences. I very much hope that the Folketing is ready to give power back to the municipalities and that those who cannot vote for the SF's proposals today are ready to find alternative solutions to these problems. Finally, I should just like to thank the parties which supported it today, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten and the Free Greens. I think there were many good points on the part of the various parties. To Enhedslisten I can say that it is no secret that SF has borrowed a little from Enhedslisten's previous proposal here, and we are pleased with the cooperation we have on this agenda here. But we have also retabled some of this, both because we had hoped that the debate would have moved over this year and a half, because quite a lot has actually happened, I think, in the debate on meat production, on agriculture and something like that for the last year and a half, but also because we think that the part about mussel farming was important to bring in, so we have added it. I would also like to thank Mrs Zenia Stampe, whom I think had some quite good points in relation to the developments that have taken place in agriculture in recent years, when it is industry today, and also the importance of putting it forward here from the perspective of local communities and rural areas. I have to say that I believe that the right wing in this Parliament will have some problems in the coming years if they continue to focus closely on the interests of the agricultural lobby and not so much on the interests of people living in the countryside who are increasingly opposed to this production, when it bothers them every day and, moreover, does not generate huge numbers of jobs in line with developments in recent years. So thank you also for the points about that and the cooperation that we have on this agenda here. I welcome the debate we have had in the Danish Parliament today, and the Socialist People's Party is continuing to fight for this proposal here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214173318	There are no brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214173334	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214173358	Thank you. I do not think I can see the authors of the motion for a resolution. Sorry, there you are. That's good. And it wasn't at all to be after you, that was kindly meant. I just thought it was a shame to start without you guys being in the hall. The SF has put forward a proposal which gives the government the task of setting up a commission to propose a new way of distributing the mandates to municipal and regional elections. In an international context, Denmark has been declared world champion of elections for several years, and this is due not least to the fact that the broad majority here in the Danish Parliament continuously fine-tunes our electoral system when we discover some things that can be done better. In other words, this is due to careful respect for our democratic processes, for which the resolution is also an expression, and for which I would like to start by expressing my thanks. I would also like to make it clear now that we in the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. The proposers want to require the government to set up a commission which, and I quote, can submit proposals for a fairer and fair allocation of seats. But basically, the government believes that the current method of settling local elections is both fair and fair. Therefore, the government cannot support setting up a commission to change the rules. A Commission is a heavy tool; it takes a lot of time and resources, and we use them to help us with new knowledge and worked out solutions for complex social problems. But when it comes to the question of the electoral method, as I see it, we have an excellent knowledge base. The real question then is whether the parties politically believe that method is fair or not. There are many opinions on these, and of course we can also discuss them today, just as the Danish Parliament has done many times before. But the government's position is that we have a good and well-functioning system for calculating municipal and regional elections. Having said that, I am not going to stand here and say that the d'Hondt method is absolutely perfect. There is no perfect method to ensure complete mathematical justice, so the number of votes and the number of seats always match one hundred percent. But you have to round it up and down. You have to do that when there are thousands of votes and decimals to distribute. You can't have half a vote. After all, it's whole people who go down and vote for an election. It is well known that d'Hondt's method in this respect may tend to favour larger parties, and I fully understand that in individual cases it may seem unreasonable. On the other hand, the method has, firstly, the advantage of ensuring that small parties are not over-represented disproportionately and, secondly, the method of d'Hondt, as the only method mentioned in the motion for a resolution, guarantees that a party with a majority of the votes will also receive a majority of the seats. I think that is both fair and fair. And I think that among other things... the characteristics of d'Hondt's method help to ensure a well-functioning and decision-making council and regional council, and this weighs heavily on the government. However, this is a political point of view which one can agree with or disagree with, just as it applies to all other issues of how we best and most fairly organise our electoral processes and our local democracy. Some believe that the forms of government in the large cities with trade union mayors and councilmen from the various parties are most democratic and appropriate, and others think the opposite. Some believe that it is democratic to side with one's candidates over one's priorities, and others think otherwise. Some believe that the possibility of entering into lists and electoral federations should be abolished, and some again feel that the opposite is the case. We weigh and compare a great deal for the sake of creating a framework for our democracy, and that also applies when it comes to the assessment of the elections. It is quite natural that we should weigh those considerations differently, because we are different political parties, and of course we are also affected differently by the different methods of inventory. Few people will be surprised if the parties today also look differently at which method is best or which considerations should weigh the most. This is not something that I believe the proposed electoral commission can change. That is why, as I said, the government cannot support the resolution, but we naturally welcome the discussion. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214173806	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214173811	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for his statement on the points of view. I would say that there are many of the same arguments that were also put forward in 2007 when the proposal was put forward last time. As a starting point, this is not a question of a democracy understanding, but the reason for the SF's proposal here is more about the fact that there have been several times, both in 2017 and by 2021, a number of examples of municipalities where some parties have received a far cry from the majority in votes, but on the other hand have obtained a clear majority in terms of mandates. The criticism has also been raised by Professors Jørgen Elklit and Ulrik Kjær in that they believe that there is a fairer method of distribution. So the question to the Minister is: does the Minister disagree with the conclusions made by the two professors?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214173911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214173912	I do not know the criticism and their assessment in depth, but I would just like to say that, regardless of which of the methods suggested as alternative methods, problems may also arise. Well, as well as it may seem unfair that a mayor with 49%. of the votes get a majority of the seats, so it is also unfair if a mayor with 51 per cent. of the votes are not both unfair, and so it will be. What I have noticed in this municipal election in relation to the previous municipal elections is that the number of municipalities where it can be said, as the rapporteur claims, has halved from ten to five municipalities. And why is it halved? Well, I think that a large part of it is about some of the parties that are perhaps smaller in most municipalities... it could be the questioner's own party or other parties... saying that because they are small, they will not be part of an electoral union with the Social Democracy or with the Left, because then they risk being eaten at electoral federations, and then they enter into electoral federations with other slightly smaller parties. If that is the case, and if that is what has happened, then the system works, because the electoral union was designed precisely to ensure that the large parties could not have an unfair advantage over the smaller parties, and then the small parties must hold on to making their own electoral federations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174021	Then it's mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174024	I hear the Minister say that he does not know about the studies that have actually been carried out. But then I just want to say that right now. is an assertion on my part that there are, in fact, some fairer ways of distributing mandates where the proportionality between voting and the allocation of seats is better. Our intention with the proposal is simply to set up an electoral commission which can actually provide us with a better and more qualified basis for taking decisions, in relation to whether the method by which we now choose to calculate mandates could actually be better.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174100	No, the questioner asked me about concrete answers to a specific study and some premises for it, which I do not have here. I can, of course, give a written answer to that. Nor do I think it is quite fair that the questioner should come in here and take it over, while the two who have actually tabled the proposal are not here. Those are the terms of politics sometimes, I know that myself. But I would also just like to say that if you want a technical answer to different methods of inventory, you have to ask a written question which you can do. I believe that with this we are talking about making a commission which has as its starting point a rather well-functioning electoral system, as we have today, now needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174136	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. We move on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mrs Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174151	Thank you. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution requiring the government to set up an electoral commission responsible for finding a different method of allocation of seats from the current d'Hondtian. We in the Socialist Group cannot support the resolution because we believe that the d'Hondt method, which is being used today, works very well as intended. We have a local political system based on proportional representation in the municipalities. This leaves room for many parties in the municipal councils. This applies both to parties that span national, but also to small and smaller parties, such as the local lists. In electoral mathematical terms, the d'Hondt method can favour larger parties. Then you might ask: is it always appropriate? Perhaps it is not, but perhaps it is better to have another system, for example. do small parties consistently over-represent? This is a classic democratic debate: how far do we have to go in order for all parties to be represented? In answer to that question, there are various democratic considerations to be taken into account. On the one hand, it is important that as many interests as possible are represented; on the other hand, it is important that there is an effective and quorum political system. The main rule is that the more parties elected, the more resources and the more time it takes to make qualified decisions in the political system. For us in the Social Democratic Party, the d'Hondt method strikes a very good balance in the various considerations. There are good opportunities for many interests and parties to be represented in the city councils, and at the same time there is also a mechanism that helps slightly to keep the number of parties at a certain level. Having said that, it is still possible in the current municipal system to circumvent that mechanism for the small parties, because it is possible, as the Minister also said, to form an electoral alliance with each other. This means, in practice, that parties whose political positions are not so far apart have the opportunity to obtain each other's votes when they have to be converted into mandates. This also means that political interests, which are close to each other, will be more easily represented in order to avoid a waste of votes. With a new electoral system, the balance between the two considerations may be shifted to the detriment of the well-functioning and decision-making local authorities, and therefore we do not believe that the existing rules should be changed. That is why we cannot see the common sense of using resources to set up a commission to propose new rules. So social democracy cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174428	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174432	The Social Democratic Party has not even heard of all the strange election results that are coming around, such as: a mayor who has not received the support of more than half of the citizens of the municipality in the elections, yet receives more than half of the seats in the city council, that is to say an absolute majority of the city council, but not an absolute majority of the population? Has the Social Democratic Party not heard of parties which actually get enough votes for a mandate but which are still not being represented because of this electoral system?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174505	Yes, I've probably heard just as many stories about how things could have looked different with other electoral systems, but despite that, I still believe that the d'Hondt method is a good method that we must hold onto.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174522	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174523	Is it a good thing if there is not a majority of the population voting for a mayor's party, but that the mayor's party still has a majority in the city council? is it really good? Or is this just about social democracy being one of the parties favoured by the d'Hondt method?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174545	After all, it is not just the D'Hondt method that determines who becomes the mayor of the city council. We have seen examples of this in municipalities where it was someone else who, despite the fact that the Social Democratic Party for example. was the largest party received the mayor's post. So it's not the d'Hondt method that decides who becomes mayor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174600	Then it's mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174602	I would just like to know whether it is the rapporteur's view that you agree that the d'Hondt method is the one that strikes the best balance between the distribution of votes and the allocation of seats. Is that the Social Democrat response?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174619	When I had to prepare for this point today, I had to see the possibilities of different methods. I do not see that there is one method that is just so fair. There will always be a waste in one way or another. We will never be able to find a model that takes into account all parties hundreds of percent fairly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174640	Sir. Jan Bjergskov Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174642	I would just like to say to the rapporteur: no, we can probably never find a model that is fair, because everything does not go straight up. We are in favour of this, but we can find a model, a method of calculation that is fairer. This is precisely what the two electoral researchers Elklit and Kjær are discussing. They have made clues about it; they have written books about it. Isn't that knowledge available to you?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174706	As I said, I have, of course, read up to today to understand what this area represents of various possibilities. What I'm looking into, and what I've seen, is that it's hard to find a method that's one hundred percent fair, and that's why we stick to the D'Hondt method.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174719	Thank you. There was one more comment, and it is from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174724	Thank you. I need to know if I heard correctly about that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen asked about earlier, namely whether it was reasonable for a mayor's party in a given municipality to receive less than 50 per cent. of the votes cast, can actually hold an absolute majority of seats. It was not, as the rapporteur said, that if you do not have a majority, you are not sure about becoming mayor; that is quite right, but if you have an absolute majority of your own, then you are probably reasonably sure about becoming mayor. In other words, if you can get that majority without having a majority of the votes, is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174805	Well, I think there are a lot of things that could be different with other systems, but I don't think we'll find a system that makes things more reasonable than the d'Hondt method does.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174815	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174817	Now the rapporteur said before that it had been prepared for this, and one of the things that lies as material in relation to the motion for a resolution today is an article, a chronicle in which Jørgen Elklit and Ulrik Kjær describe that when they have looked at it from their research point of view, more reasonable systems can be created which better reflect the distribution of votes in the allocation of mandates. Is it not obvious to take it up and say that if there is a better system, then we should have it too?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174851	In the Social Democratic Party we never close any doors and say that things are static and cannot be looked at in the long term, but, as it looks right now, we do not think that we should look at any other methods than the D'Hondtian.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174900	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214174921	Thank you for that, President. I do not think it is entirely surprising that we are going to have to deal today with a proposal to change the method by which we allocate seats in municipal and regional elections. I have not had this rapporteurship for so long, but I can tell you that when I started digging back a little in the archives, I could see that yes, I do not know if it is possible to say that it has become a little tradition, but at least there have been several times when a similar resolution has typically been dealt with in connection with municipal and regional elections. Because it is of course important that we continue to discuss things here in the Parliamentary Chamber in relation to how we each view it. It is in this way that the d'Hondt method has actually been working as far back as 1909, and I have to say that I really think that it works as it should far, far along the way. It is clear that you will always be able to find some places where you think whether it could not be different or whether it could not be better. But I have to say that when I get around and also talk to representatives of various political parties, among others. Here, during the municipal and regional elections, there is of course also a sense of security in knowing the D.H.D. method, because it has been dealt with for many, many years. In addition to that, it is clear that electoral federations can also be formed, and I think that, as it works around, there are many of the smaller parties which, in this way too, can be said, secure themselves in relation to entering into electoral federations across the parties. And yes, over the years there have been several offers of different methods that could replace the current D.H.D. method. But all in all we have to say on the Left side, when we compensate for the advantages and disadvantages, that we therefore believe that the method we have today has the most advantages and weighs the heaviest. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175145	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175148	The left is also the other great party, which is very useful in using this electoral method. So maybe it's useless to ask, but I'm gonna do it anyway. Does the Left's rapporteur in this matter make the impression that the leading electoral researchers in Denmark have examined the consequences of the d'Hondt method for the election and conclude that there are other methods, other electoral systems that can better provide a distribution of seats that reflect how people voted than the way we do it today? Does it not make any impression at all, and does the Left not want us to have the best possible method to give the picture that the vote also gives?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175246	I have also followed the press about the debates that have taken place in connection with the municipal elections, among others. Also Ulrik Kjær has been out to comment on it. And yes, it always impresses me when there are scientists and so on who come up with their views on things. However, I must also say that I have dug into what follows in relation to saying where the benefits are and where the disadvantages are and, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I still think that there are most advantages rather than starting to switch to something else where there may just as well be some disadvantages.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175324	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175326	The benefits are probably particularly obvious to the people in the Left, I think. Because there are probably some Left Communes who are mentioned in what I am reading here about what this system has to do with consequences. In ten municipalities, researchers find examples of a party having obtained a majority of the seats in the city council without having obtained a majority of the votes. How many of the municipalities do Mrs Anni Matthiesen think are Left Communes? And does it matter that the Left refuses to look at this electoral system?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175359	Well, I don't dare guess how many of the ten municipalities it is. I can of course hope that it is all ten of them, because that means that we have the mayor's post in some good places. I would say that, regardless of what you say, and I clearly acknowledge this, it is also said that the D'Hondt model has an advantage, indeed, for the main parties. Still away, I think it is actually fair. There are some drawbacks to some of the other models in which I have at least dug into which I think, frankly, is too big.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175436	Then it's mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175439	I would like to thank the rapporteur for being clearer in his language about the attitude to our proposal than the Social Democracy was. I sense that there is some kind of opening. And the rapporteur has to say that the figures have delved into the figures, and I would say that this is precisely why we in the SF have not put forward a very specific proposal for a particular calculation model today, but that we are going to set up an electoral commission which aims to dive into it and provide us with a qualified basis. Is there nothing in it that both I have said and that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has said, which can make you open up and think: could we not, however, agree to make an electoral commission so that we get some figures and some scenarios for the last two, three or four times municipal elections, and see if it could not be done better? I also think that the electoral researchers here have some points when they go out with these comments and say that there is an applied model that is actually fairer, without us now approaching 100 per cent, because we never get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175543	Remember, we don't use direct charges. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175547	The SF rapporteur is forgiven. I would like to say this in the way that I actually think the Minister also said that it is easy to ask a few questions and get some answers, including from the Minister and from the Minister's Ministry, in relation to perhaps getting some clarification. I think it is extremely important to start setting up an electoral commission, but it does not mean that it is not something that we can continue to discuss, including in committee, and for that matter also investigate. But I really think that we should start there in relation to asking some questions. I am not going to impose any tasks on the rapporteur, but that is what I would think: we should start there in order to gain more insight into things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175630	Then it's mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen. No, he's gonna drop out. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175637	Thank you. It is of course interesting to hear first the Social Democracy and then the Left defend the system we have, but it may not be so strange. I mean, when I look at it, I can see that in 2017 left in Nordfyns Kommune 40.1 per cent. of the votes, but 13 out of 25 seats. That is 52 per cent. of the mandates, but 40%. of the votes. Does the rapporteur think that it is a fair way to have a system that makes it that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175704	Well, I guess we could all actually find some maths to bring out in here. I also think that I could dig back in time and find a calculation, compared to the fact that the Danish People's Party was a large party here in the Assembly Hall, which perhaps showed exactly the same thing. I still believe that the d'Hondt model is the one that has, I know, the most advantages and the least disadvantages, and that is what keeps us in the Left sticking to that model and thinking it is the right thing to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175739	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175741	Well, I can see the advantage for the Left in that you by 40%. of the votes can get 52 per cent. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). That, of course, seems quite logical to the Left. But for the rest of us, who are looking at it from the outside, it may not be quite so reasonable. Can the rapporteur not recognise that we actually have some researchers who have been looking at this and who write in crowns and write in reports that there are in fact models that better reflect the voting in the allocation of mandates? The only thing that is proposed with this proposal today is to give an opportunity to get the work done to see if it is right too, so that you have the opportunity to create a better system. Isn't that where we're going?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175826	Well, now I don't know about the example that Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl is pulling out; I do not know it in concrete terms, so I do not know what has been concluded, including by the electoral federations, etc., which have also been able to benefit the Left in the municipality concerned. That's where you gotta dig into things. And then I'm still going to say that this model we've had for so many years, and I trust, frankly, that if you've been able to see that this has been completely crazy, you'd already have changed it, when you've actually been riding this d'Hondt model since then, yes, 1909.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175901	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214175916	Thank you. We have recently had municipal elections, which is why it can be said that it is of course quite relevant and topical to take the debate on the electoral system and how the votes should be translated into mandates. As a starting point, I believe that the vast majority of Danes who have not just read the researchers' assessment or been involved in the mandate calculations will assume that we have a system that distributes the mandates equally according to the number of votes, so that if you get 25%. Of the votes, you also get 25%. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). That's just not always the case. When I read the story of the use of the so-called D'Hondt method, I am surprised that it has not been changed long, long ago. The system was first used in 1909. It is described from then on that it was well known from the outset that it disadvantaged the small parties, so the big parties had an advantage. At first it did not seem to bother the small parties, who were probably hoping to be big one day, but the system was nevertheless adjusted after an electoral commission proposed in 1922 that one should be able to join the electoral federation. This was done at the time in order to give the small parties the opportunity to pool their votes for the distribution of seats and thus, of course, to become larger and thus again counteract the advantage that the large parties have of the D'Hondt method. It is also something that I personally know from the handling in Assens Municipality. In the 2017 elections, we in the Danish People's Party with three mandates could join forces with the Enhedslisten with a mandate, and then the four mandates would be entitled to a place in the Economics Committee, and that place would, if necessary, leave one of the major parties, namely the Left. And in the recent elections in Assens we were in the Danish People's Party in electoral union with Conservatives, and as a group we were given four mandates, where we would have received two mandates without electoral federations. Then, of course, it can be said that the electoral federations then have a counter-effect on the system which the D'Hondt method systematically has with regard to the interests of the large parties. One of the problems, of course, is that it is not just the small parties that choose to join the electoral federation; the big parties do, of course. Then you can say that it is stupid for the small parties to join the electoral federations, but sometimes you win in the lottery, because that is actually what it is. The d'Hondt method is a lottery, especially for the small parties. In the Danish People's Party we find that the time has come to look at a new system. I heard the rapporteur of the Left say that this debate has been held every four years over and over again. Then I think maybe it's time to stop it from having it over and over and then actually agree that when we can do something about this, we have to do it. Because there is no reason to continue with a system that is systematically wrong when we know that there can be better ways of doing so, which can better ensure that the votes cast are translated into mandates, so that the mandates actually reflect the proportion of the votes that the parties have received. That is why the Danish People's Party fully supports SF's motion for a resolution. Now we have heard the two major parties try to make arguments for it; I think they were not very good. I am curious to hear whether there are other parties who also have arguments for not joining, because this is something we should have done a long time ago and we should get it done as soon as possible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214180242	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We can move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Christina Thorholm. Good. Then, when we look at an extra round, the conclusion is that we see no rapporteur from the Radical Left, and that is why we can move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214180329	That was a very welcome conclusion, I would say, and thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying, in the interests of safety, that we also support the desire to set up a Commission which, while noting that it is open-minded to assess the different methods of allocation of seats. The reason I put it this way is because I think we need some material. I think we should analyse the elections in 2009, 2013, 2017 and 2021 and then try to calculate the result of them using the d'Hondt method, which is the current one. That is where we know the results of the elections and the distribution of seats. Secondly, it should be calculated from the use of Sainte-Laguë's method and method, and then it should be calculated with and without an electoral union, and then you would know what we all expect from this debate is always full of illusions, namely that there is no clear solution to the question we are raising. Then I would say that I am one of those who think that after the mathematics comes the tactics, and therefore, if we choose other methods, there will quickly adapt to a tactic that corresponds to the new methods. If, for example, we do not know what to do. We decided to use Sainte-Laguë's method, we would very quickly find ourselves in a situation where the major parties, in order to ensure their continued power, would split up. So it would get the result that you want to make an S-list Røsnæs, an S-list Høng and an S-list Svebølle, just as you could have a V-list Grindsted and one for Billund and Sønder Omme. In other words, we would immediately see that the tactics were adapted. It may be that there would be an election time before it was adapted, but the tactics follow the mathematics. That is why there is no clear solution. However, we would like the information requested, and the Minister can be sure that if we end up with no majority in favour of this proposal, then the questions simply come to the Minister, and then we would ask the Ministry to count on it without a commission. So it's gonna come sooner or later, no matter what. The Enhedslisten therefore supports the proposal, and we are very happy to participate with people on the Commission, in accordance with the suggestion that all parties should be represented.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214180549	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214180608	I just got elected Elsinore City Council for the first time. That was exciting. It was exciting to see how we, the different parties, in the municipality of Elsinore had chosen to enter into different electoral federations for various reasons. A local and regional council has just been elected in Denmark. As I can see from the history in here, it is almost as certain as the amen in the church that when an election has been held, the matter of the method of delegation also comes up in the Folketing. Now the SF has tabled a motion for a resolution to set up an electoral commission, the purpose of which is to present proposals for a more equitable and fair distribution of seats in accordance with the SF than the current d'Hondt method. We understand that a concern is raised as to whether the current D'Hondt method is quite right. I would therefore also like to recommend that all parties and politicians pay more attention to communicating which electoral federations they are part of. It was a big discussion and debate in our little local daily and up in our local area. But we have never concealed who we were part of and who was with us. It is important that those elected democratically by the Danes provide information about who they are entering into electoral federations with. No method gives full justice, and that is why it is ultimately also a choice which method one chooses. We want to maintain the current legislation, according to which electoral mathematics in electoral technical cooperation takes place according to the so-called d'Hondt method of distribution. The argument for this is that the rules are well known and equal for all parties, and I should like to say that the Conservative People's Party has been a very small party. So we know the consequences and know how to stay out locally. D'Hondt's distribution method is recognised and used for many years. If you invent a new method, you may solve a problem, but you also create new ones. I don't know what to replace. Denmark generally has a fairly proportional electoral system and it is not necessarily a good idea to change it. I also note that d'Hondt's method is used in most of Europe. Moreover, it is also an important point that one can publicly go in and see which electoral union a given party has agreed to. A Commission is probably expensive and it is far from certain that it will produce a clear result and something better than the current system. Against this background, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214180902	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214180919	Thank you for the floor. After all, this is a proposal to set up a Commission to look at improving something, but it is not a proposal that we should then move automatically to that legislation. We're going to support this in New Citizens. We think it's nice to look at it. We think we should constantly look at whether we can improve our democracy and whether we can do so in some other ways. There are some shortcomings in the D'Hondt model. Probably there would be if you made another model. However, I think that we constantly deserve to develop and work with our democracy and with our way of choosing. Then this could be a good opportunity to look at it, because there are some inappropriate things here. And then you have to see when something comes and the work has taken place, if there really is a better solution. It's not safe. So this is definitely not a guarantee that we will vote a different model through absolutely not, but we think it's quite appropriate to look at these models on a regular basis. So we think it is a good proposal and we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214181021	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214181030	Thank you. We just need to get the background in place so that we can discuss this motion for a resolution from the SF. The background is that Danish election research's grand old man, Jørgen Elklit, Professor emeritus, has looked at the municipal elections in 2017 together with Professor Ulrik Kjær. They have therefore examined the results of our electoral system in the 2017 municipal elections through the most thorough research imaginable in Denmark. They then reached some conclusions, and now I just want to read out a little of what is mentioned in an article on Everything about it. For example, it says:: In the case of municipalities, researchers find examples of a party having obtained a majority of the seats in the city council without having obtained a majority of the votes. In other words, an absolute majority of the city council, without there being an absolute majority for the party in the population. There you can sit in that party and decide everything that is going on in this municipality because you have a majority, even though there is no majority of citizens who have voted for the party. That is the result of the electoral system we have. Then there are other consequences for smaller municipal parties. If a different electoral system had been chosen, New Citizens in the local elections in 2017 would have been given 1 mandate in 13 municipalities rather than only in Hillerød, where one mandate was given then in 2017. The alternative would have been represented in 42 municipalities instead of in only 15 municipalities, and the Liberal Alliance, my party, would have had elected people in 47 municipalities instead of in only 24 municipalities. In other words, in half of the municipalities, the Liberal Alliance would have been represented in 2017, instead of only a quarter of the municipalities, if you had a different electoral system, which according to the researchers provides a better distribution of seats based on the distribution of votes in the elections. Then comes this excellent proposal from the SF, which says: should we not set up a commission to investigate various electoral systems, which could then be a source of political debate? We can choose to keep what we already have if we want to, or we can also, if the Commission finds that something else is obviously better, choose to go that way. So it's just a suggestion that there's a commission and some smart people who have to look at it. To that, the Liberal and Social Democrats in particular, which are the two parties benefiting from the system we have today, say: no, we will not investigate it at all. The Liberal and Social Democrats have a majority in favour of saying that here in the Folketing, just as the Liberal and Social Democrats have a majority in favour of plundering a minority of the municipalities and then giving the money to Left-wing and Social Democratic municipalities. They do so here too, in other words they say no to the distribution of power in the municipalities more equally to all parties, instead of the Left and the Social Democrats sitting on so much as a result of an electoral system that does not provide an equal distribution of seats on the basis of the vote. One of the reasons that we heard here from Conservatives unfortunately says that such a commission is expensive. Yeah, well, I'm guessing that if that commission is very expensive, it might work for a few million dollars, i.e. 2, 3, 4 million. kr. I think such a commission can work for. It is certainly an opportunity to set up a committee of experts. Is it very expensive to develop our democracy towards something that is more representative of the way citizens vote? No, it's not. But Conservatives are also on the way to becoming a large municipal party. They had a good municipal election and maybe they also have something out of this electoral system now in some places, for example. in Elsinore, where the rapporteur has been elected. So it's a little sneaky with the big municipal parties who want to keep pork with them instead of looking with open eyes at whether there can be a better electoral method that gives a more representative distribution of the mandates, compared to how people actually vote. But we support the resolution. We would very much like to vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214181507	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank Ole Birk Olesen. Then we are ready to move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jan Bjergskov Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214181527	Thank you, sir. President. In my time in city council policy, one of the first things I was introduced to was to learn that large parties have a special responsibility. When we talk about city council policy, it is a special responsibility that we do not sit down in all the committees, but that we distribute. It is also about not just sitting on your knowledge, but also sharing knowledge. It is also about the fact that, even if you do not have to do any dialogue processes or democratic processes in the committees, you actually facilitate them. So my approach to this must also be to say that I think it is interesting, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also said that it is the two largest parties that right now cannot support the SF's proposal. And it's kind of just something that speaks for itself. In the SF we have put forward this proposal to set up an electoral commission because we would like the Commission to come up with some proposals for a better way of distributing the seats of the parties so that there is a much greater correlation between what the electorate votes and the actual allocation of seats. Excellent examples have been given here, and now the time is quite advanced, so I will not stand here and give all the municipal examples of how some parties have obtained a majority without a majority vote. But I just want to say that the d'Hondt method that we use in Denmark is not an argument that we need to use it forward-looking, just because we do it in other countries too, because we have talked about the fact that sometimes you have to be a pioneer by doing something else, you have a tendency to favour the biggest parties. And when special attention is paid to the fact that other methods actually exist that are fairer, we in the SF think that it should be listened to. With regard to being fairer, I will again beat a stake through it and say that no, we will never achieve a hundred percent justice, but when we talk about something as humble as how the voters vote, it is therefore difficult to look the voters in the eye and say: here perhaps only a few and forty percent have voted for a party, yet the party succeeds in obtaining an absolute majority on the city council. It is not democratic, and I believe that with this arrangement we are putting ourselves in a very difficult situation in terms of defending the way in which we distribute mandates. Therefore, we in the SF believe that it is time to look at whether we cannot do it differently. And it is true that this case appears at intervals, most often when there has been a municipal election, and perhaps we should just close it once and for all by saying: should we not, however, back up to create an electoral commission that could actually look at this and see if we could do it just a little better? It should actually be a matter for all the parties in the Folketing to support our proposal, because no one can argue with the right back and the sure voice that we must maintain an electoral model that does not adequately reflect the electorate's views and the distribution of votes. If you want to take the electorate seriously, you should have supported the SF resolution and thank the parties that have expressed support today. I had therefore hoped that the two main parties would also refrain from putting themselves in the situation where one can then doubt whether they actually think that the d'Hondt method is just the best, or whether the basic thing is that it is the one that guarantees the two parties the most seats in the city councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214181928	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214181943	The debate is open. And first we give the floor to the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214182010	Thank you for the floor, President. I would also like to thank the Left for once again highlighting the area of expropriation with this resolution. I will also refer in my introductory answer here to the briefing on the process of the new expropriation law, which was sent to the Parliament and the Transport Committee on 27 September this year, where the basis for what we discussed last time, this motion for a resolution was dealt with here. A similar motion for a resolution in a previous session has also been sketched out and updated, so that, prior to the work on this parliamentary year, it was also known what the process around this whole area looked like. That is why I would like to begin by pointing out that the motion for a resolution is quite identical to the motion for a resolution which was named B 84 and which was tabled in the previous Assembly and which was first dealt with in February of this year. On that occasion, I think we had a fine discussion of the content of the motion for a resolution, and that is why it is possible to say, perhaps also with a little bit of surprise, that we are now dealing with a return in the same form as the letter I sent over in September. I do not wish to deny that, in this context, I will also repeat a few things that I said during the debate on the motion for a resolution last time. At the same time, however, I would like to take this opportunity to give a status to the efforts to draw up a new law on the expropriation of processes, and I will allow myself to come back to that. The motion for a resolution states that it must be a requirement for public authorities to investigate, clarify and describe the impact of intervention on private citizens and businesses. It is difficult to disagree with that, but as I explained when dealing with the previous resolution in the last session, there is already a requirement in the legislation in force that the authorities examine and clarify the consequences of expropriative intervention. In short, it follows from the procedural requirements laid down by the legislation for inspecting, alerting citizens and businesses, publishing relevant material, etc., which the authorities must observe before and during the implementation of the expropriation. That is why I am unsure of what the Left exactly proposes of amendments, but if the Left or others have concrete proposals for improving legislation in this area, then, as I have already indicated, I am very sensitive. Secondly, the Left proposes that uniform procedures should be established for intervention by public authorities with objective criteria as to when an intervention will lead to expropriation. In this connection, let me just repeat what I said in the debate on the motion for a resolution in the last session, namely that the question of when an infringement of property rights is an expression of expropriation is based solely on an interpretation of Article 73 of the Constitution. This means that the legislature cannot bind the court's decision as to when an intervention is an expression of expropriation under Article 73 of the Constitution. That is why I find it difficult to see the purpose of this proposal. In addition, the Left suggests that full coverage of costs of legal and other expert assistance in expropriation cases should be available, provided that the remuneration does not exceed the corresponding cost for the public authority. And that sounds like a sympathetic proposal, and when you read the proposal, you can also get the impression that there is no provision today for any kind of compensation for the costs of expert assistance. However, that is by no means the case. As the rules are in the State field today, the independent Commission of Expropriation may require the construction authorities to provide appropriate compensation to the citizen concerned for the necessary costs of expert assistance which the citizen has had in connection with an expropriation case. This means that the Commission makes a concrete and, above all, it is very important that an independent assessment be made of what constitutes a necessary cost in each case. In this context, the Commission looks at how complex the matter is, what the citizen has to do for himself, and what the expert has actually contributed. In other words, it is not a question of the citizen per year. The Commission's proposal is based on a proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM (88) 647 final - Doc. In fact, the Commissions are subject to the so-called 'official principle', which means, in short, that, within the framework of general administrative law, the Commissions are obliged and responsible to ensure that the cases are sufficiently informed before the order is given. In other words, the Commission is neither dependent on nor bound by the submissions and information which the parties to the proceedings may make. If I understand the Left's proposal correctly, we must allow full access to reimbursement for all expenditure on expert assistance, regardless of whether the independent Commission may consider that the assistance has not been relevant and regardless of the amount of assistance provided. I am aware, however, that the Left will limit access to compensation so that it cannot, as a rule, exceed the corresponding costs of the construction authorities. It is unclear how that limit is to be drawn in practice and, furthermore, the proposal will be a step in the wrong direction towards transforming our Administrative Courts into court-like bodies. And I do not think this will do anything good either for the quality of the decisions or for the length of the proceedings. Finally, I find it difficult to see who will actually benefit from the proposal, in addition, of course, to the legal profession. Finally, the Left proposes that a simplified complaint process should be established by expropriation and that the procedural rules on expropriation, compensation, conservation and compensation should be brought together in a new procedural law. These proposals come from the recommendations of the Committee on Expropriation from 2018. And when we last discussed the resolution, I told you that a legislative proposal which was intended to give effect to the two recommendations was well under way. As I have also informed the Parliament's Transport Committee, however, the process has not proved to be quite as straightforward as initially assumed. Thus, the Ministry of Transport sent a draft law in a so-called targeted stakeholder consultation over the spring of 2021. The purpose of this was to play with open cards and at an early stage of the process get input from the many practitioners in the country who deal with expropriation in the daily. It has to be said that it is a good decision that we did the exercise because the Ministry received a number of consultation responses, all of which pointed out that the Ministry's proposals for simplifying processes in the field of expropriation involved major challenges. It should therefore be borne in mind that the proposal was based on the committee work that was carried out in 2018 and that was what had been implemented. However, in the consultation answers, it is then pointed out that it poses some challenges. The problems were all linked to the proposal to allow a State expropriation commission to establish compensation before the municipality could take the expropriation decision itself. It was pointed out that this proposal, on the one hand, threatens to make it difficult for the municipal construction projects to be properly planned and, on the other hand, is likely to lead to longer processing times for the individual citizen, and that is precisely contrary to the purpose of the preparatory work that has been carried out. Contrary to what many people may think, we do not make rules just for the sake of the rules. At least not in the Ministry of Transport. Therefore, it is important for me that the rules also work as intended in practice. The Ministry therefore discussed the matter with the National Association of Municipalities and a few selected municipalities, and together it has managed to find a model that simplifies the system while maintaining the possibility for municipalities to plan and organise the cases. In brief, the model is that the municipalities are required to draw up a proposal for compensation in connection with decisions on expropriation. This replacement proposal may be subject to administrative appeal, at the same time as up to 80%. the replacement proposal is automatically paid. And thus, the municipality can continue its planning, while at the same time the citizens immediately receive money between their hands and legal certainty. The Ministry is in the process of changing this model, which is proposed, into concrete provisions in an adjusted legislative proposal which can then be put forward in the coming parliamentary year. And this is where I return to the briefing that I sent to the Transport Committee on 27 September this year, in which all this is precisely outlined, and thus also the answer, which is quite essential, namely that the government did not intend to table a bill in this session because of the foreplay that I have just outlined but that it will be put forward in the following parliamentary year, namely 1922-23. All in all, it is of course a pity that the draft law and the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee on Expropriation are not entirely in line, but I think that the extra time has also been well spent and that we have had some of the proposals tested because it makes us hopefully end up with a set of rules that can also work in the real world. The other parts of the motion for a resolution I cannot support immediately by the government, nor can I support the overall motion for a resolution at the last reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183046	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183049	I listened very carefully or I tried to listen very carefully when the Minister gave his reasons, and I think I understood everything. There was just one thing I didn't understand, and it was this thing about this getting more expensive. Compared to what? Does the Minister have any idea what the total cost to landowners, property owners etc. around the Danish society is in relation to the interventions of the state, municipalities and regions towards private individuals, where private individuals are then required to investigate whether they are general regulation or expropriation, and what could be the total cost to Danish citizens in Denmark every year?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183127	I cannot explain that on a stand-by basis. But on the other hand, before I joined the Folketing, I myself experienced the process of being through an expropriation, and I can confirm that in this situation it is not necessarily necessary to have a lawyer. You need good people who are able to advise you through that process. In concrete terms, I needed a real estate agent who could help assess the value of a property and a person from an agricultural organisation because agricultural organisations have extremely good experience in helping people through such processes. And I can also confirm that it is the fact that it is ultimately the Commission that decides what the reasonable cost that is being imposed is. That is why the point is that you may well risk it if you do per. The definition must choose a lawyer, become more expensive, without necessarily obtaining the advice, including the empathy, that you also need people with experience in the field.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183239	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183241	What we are talking about here, then, is that the State or the State, in some sense or other, is making an intervention. And is it not true that it would typically be the case that the person representing the public sector has an interest in saying: this is general regulation and it is not expropriation? And that is where the problem arises because the person who loses the right of advice or ownership will typically have an interest in saying that it is expropriation, because then you get compensation. That is why there will be an imbalance between the landowner, or whatever it may be, that is to say, the person who has the ownership, and then the person who takes the action, whether it be a municipality, a region or the state. Everything else will typically be so that it is the citizen who is expropriated who is the small one in the relationship. So it is not entirely irrelevant to look at the economic cost involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183328	I would like to give a written answer at the committee's reading on the total cost. But I also believe that it is important here to take into account the citizen's perspective, because I know lawyers well enough to know that many people in that capacity will often have an interest in dragging a case forward, whereas citizens very often have an interest in settling matters. And here there is therefore a potential conflicting interest which does not necessarily benefit the citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183400	Then it's mr. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183402	Thank you. It is true that, when there is an expropriation situation, the citizen has an opportunity to obtain expert assistance and have it replaced to a reasonable extent, and expropriation proceedings can, of course, be decided in some way by the Commission of Expropriation. But they can also end in a trial, and what we are discussing here is the situation where they end up in a trial where the public has relatively unlimited resources, but where the citizen is in a situation where the citizen cannot just get free process or the like, and what we actually imagine is that one has a system similar to that. That was one question. Is the Minister so aware that this motion for a resolution is very much about etc., where, for example, these are precisely situations where it does not lead to expropriation, but where, for example, the public authorities. making an area reservation for a intended road or the like?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183512	I have to say that I do not think the text of the motion for a resolution is very clear, but it is of course extremely interesting, and we can then try to look at that in the further work of the committee. But perhaps just as important, when we are going to have an expropriation law process, there can also be some of the elements that we need to discuss in more detail. In any case, I would like to make sure that, like what has happened in the past in this area, even when we have moved further, we take up the Parliament's Transport Committee for a more detailed account of how this should be implemented, and thus also take some of these discussions early. At any rate, I only have the interest that we share and have an open mind about the process, which is also the implementation of the work of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Petitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183615	Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183618	I'm glad to hear that. What is a little important to me is that we in the Left did not sit down and say that we have the stones of the wise. In fact, this motion for a resolution is about getting a job under way, looking at it, and I will deal with it a little more in detail later in my final speech. So no further questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183642	No, but I actually see it that way too, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer is constructive in this context, which is why I also appreciate the fact that we have the debate. Some of these things, of course, have an opportunity to deepen the work of the committee. So let's finally do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183659	Then we thank the Minister for Transport and move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party, who just comes up here when it has been spritted off. It's a good thing nobody's gonna pass out of all that alcohol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183722	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Left on legal certainty in expropriation is, as I have said, a re-submission from the last session and by B 84 from 2021, so that is why my speech will also be brief and go along with what I said last time. I would say that my own experience with expropriation also comes from the fact that a few years ago in my home town, Silkeborg, we got through a motorway where many citizens had to get acquainted with this, and that is why I have also received many input from citizens on this subject. But now that we in the Danish Parliament decide to build up infrastructure, it could be a new highway or bridges or railways, we do so in order to improve transport opportunities in Denmark and make everyday life better for citizens and companies, and at the same time some of these infrastructure projects involve the state sometimes having to make an expropriation. Expropriation is a very intrusive interference in the private property of citizens, and it can therefore understandably lead to frustration and dissatisfaction among the citizens concerned, and therefore it is also essential that we listen to the citizens and ensure that the process of expropriation is both proper and transparent, so that the citizens concerned receive good and fair treatment, as is the case, of course, for the operators. In relation to the specific motion for a resolution, I note that both in February, when we dealt with this proposal here at the end and today, the Minister clearly stated that part of the proposed proposal has already been secured in the constitution, another part has been incorporated into the legislation in force, and a third part will be put forward in a new legislative proposal which is under way. Against this background, I cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183908	There are no questions. We thank the rapporteur. And then we're gonna have to start drinking again. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214183930	Thank you, President. Expropriating property is a very violent interference with ownership, in being able to work, live and be in Denmark. Therefore, it also has its very own provision in the Constitution, in which a number of conditions are attached to it. This must be done by law, against compensation and only where the public good demands it. However, state regulation does not always meet the definition of expropriation. Much else is happening around the whole country, including where private property is compromised, but where it just falls into the other ditch and can be called general regulation. And for the state or the municipality, or whoever is responsible for the operation, there is quite a considerable difference. For if it is general regulation, one should not meet the three requirements of the Constitution. And so, of course, there is a struggle between the expropriated and the expropriating, very often at least, in relation to how this procedure is now to be considered. And it has thus created, both in relation to practice, but also in relation to written rules, a wilderness of various circulars and decrees and laws etc. etc. That is why, when we are faced with one of the most violent interventions that the public can make to a private citizen, I think it is a very, very sympathetic proposal that the Left has put forward, so to say: is it not time that we looked through all these rules and looked into whether it is even possible for the ordinary citizen to navigate it? After all, I think that the Minister really makes a good argument to the rapporteur and the authors of the motion for a resolution, saying that in almost all cases a lawyer is needed. Now I may not quite have the same animosity as the minister to the lawyer's office. At least it is not such a permanent condition for me; I know a few both honourable and decent types of service, but it is striking that when you are exposed to this, what should we call it, assault on the part of the public, then you cannot handle it yourself, that you cannot see your legal position. That is why I think there are some very sensible notes in what the Left has shown here, too, in the five specific examples mentioned. This applies to area reservations, which have been the subject of debate in this House somewhere else today in relation to Ring 5. It is also in relation to aircraft where it is noise nuisances that may have an expropriated character. It's energy projects and other things. We all know how very, very large wind turbines and other installations, perhaps test mills, can have such a violent changing character in the landscape that it completely destroys or impairs the possibility that you can use your property for what it was intended and that it is therefore expropriation. In the increasingly industrialised and modern technological society, these examples are likely to increase, which is why I think there is something positive in what the Left has proposed here. One can then discuss if one has to put on the other hat, if it is also appropriate to mention where one wants to go, so that one specifically says that these are the five objectives one wants to achieve so that it must be a requirement that public authorities examine, illuminate and describe them properly. It should actually be in the nature of things, I think. That you want a simplified complaint process, yes, I understand that, but what does that mean? Maybe you should have left the target a little more open. However, it is not a criticism which is strong enough for us in the Danish People's Party not to be able to support this proposal, and that is why we hope, of course, that even though we have so far heard that at least the Social Democrat rapporteur, who is certainly under a certain influence from the Socialist Minister, has also spoken, is against the fact that we can find a majority for it at the second and last reading. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214184343	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214184356	Thank you. In fact, like previous speakers, we think that there are some extremely good elements in this proposal. We thought so last time it was put forward. For us, it is incredibly important that we strengthen legal certainty for citizens who have got into a mess in these situations where you have to wait an incredibly long time to find out whether you have been bought or sold, for example. In the case of a motorway or something else we have discussed in the transport sector earlier today. After all, it is totally untenable that you cannot be told what is going to happen and that you are being locked in. That is why I am quite happy to hear that the Ministry of Transport and the Minister for Transport are preparing new legislation. I was also very pleased to hear that the Minister of Transport is actually open to further input, in addition to the fact that input is already being collected from among others. KL and others. So on that note, I would like to call for a joint report or something else to be landed on this bill, because there are plenty of good elements in it. As far as the SF is concerned, we do not really think that we need to disagree on the substance. It is probably more the process, and in terms of how we do what we disagree on, at least as I hear it from the Ministry. So I would urge you to do so, and I would like to thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214184525	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur from the Radicals is not here. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214184549	Thank you. Yes, I could just say that I feel completely covered by what the Minister of Transport said in his opening speech, because I do. But it's a little fucking arrogant... I'm sorry! It's a little arrogant. Then I could choose to read out the speech made by Mrs Rosa Lund on our behalf, the last time an identical proposal was dealt with, but that would be a pure plagiarism. With this, of course, I am trying to say that it is not even a year since we dealt with a completely identical proposal, and we cannot see in the Enhedslisten that so much more new has happened in this. Well, the new thing that's happened is that the bill that was announced at the last reading to be presented in this Parliamentary Assembly has not materialised. However, I also think that the Minister for Transport has explained very, very carefully why it has not materialised and that the Minister for Transport also announces in what he sent to the Committee on Transport in September that a legislative proposal will be tabled in the next session. I understand that the legislative proposal which was almost completed or practically completed came up against a great deal, I do not know whether it was an objection or what it was, not least at KL, and one has obviously been set up, I do not know whether it is a committee or what it is, but that is to say, one obviously cooperates with the KL to get the right proposal put forward. And we have a lot of respect for that. It is not, of course, because we do not think that there is any part of the resolution that is quite reasonable, but that is quite certain, but the essence of the proposal is that the Left, just as it says: we must have some negotiations, and that must lead to new legislation, and that legislation must take into account the recommendations of the Committee on Expropriation and incorporate them. But that is also what I can hear from the Minister for Transport exactly what is going on. And that is why, at least in the Enhedslisten, we will wait and see. We will just wait and see what that bill will look like and then take the debate there. It will be a completely different, if I may say so, concrete debate. There will be some concrete proposals: what are the recommendations of the Committee on Expropriation that are included in the new legislative proposal? Are there any recommendations that are not included? And so forth. So we will end up in the same position as the last time: that we will wait and see the bill that, although it will not be in this session, we can only regret that, but it has been fully explained, I think, but then we will have to come to the next session, and then we will take a position on what we are doing about these problems, which really are.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214184921	We thank the rapporteur. There's just a little despriting again. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214184951	Thank you, President. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Left for resubmitting the motion for a resolution here and thus again, it is almost tempting to say again that we should focus on the area of expropriation. This is a very relevant and unfortunately very topical issue. We have seen this most recently in the slaughter of the mink industry in Denmark, and it is still important that we ensure that citizens' rights are strengthened. Expropriation is one of the most intrusive things that can be experienced as a citizen. It can put one's life completely on standby if we in the Folketing decide to build a new road, expand an existing road or use new, noisy aircraft types. And it is simply not reasonable for the moment that it follows from the Constitution that private property is inviolable and that the citizen thus has the right to full compensation if one's property is expropriated by the State or the municipality. Private property is crucial and central to a liberal democracy, which is why the Conservative People's Party also supports strengthening citizens' legal certainty even more in this area. The citizens must be guaranteed transparent and proper processes of expropriation, because we forget a little too often that the state is there for the citizens and not the other way around. For many citizens, in their meeting with the public, they find that they need a lot of resources in a very complex system. For the Conservative People's Party, it is an ambition for us to have a system that more expresses the fact that the system exists for the citizen, not the other way around. That is why we also believe that there are very good tactics in this proposal. We support the need to see this quickly and we support the proposals of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214185147	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's gonna have to be some despriting again, but it may be that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens will bear with Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214185200	We always do! Our normal rapporteur could not be here today, so I have promised to take this. We can support the proposal from the Left, and we could do so last time. If I have a few comments to make on that, I would say that I have had the honour of sitting 4 years in Aarhus City Council, where we experienced in the closest teams, how the municipality, I think, almost ran over citizens, because they had now decided on something, and then one could call it expropriation, and so it did not matter whether the legal state of the citizens really was not very good. So I think it's fine that we focus on it. I am also a little puzzled, and it is sometimes possible to do so, even if you are not the rapporteur in this area. Some of these dilemmas, which are mentioned here, are not new dilemmas. These are not new issues. Then it could be that the rapporteur, when he has the floor, goes up and explains why these things were not resolved last time. Now I have heard that both the Danish People's Party and the Left and the Conservatives have spoken positively about resolving these issues, and if I know Liberal Alliance right, there is also a desire here that this can be resolved. Then I thought that there really was a majority in the last period in order to resolve the issues raised here, for example. that a simplified complaint process should be established by expropriation as described in the Expropriation Committee's report No. 1569 on expropriation under the Planning Act, June 2018. I thought that was some of the issues that lay in the last period of government. I have to admit, I don't know about the history, and there's no joke in this. I'm just asking you honestly what is the reason why you didn't address those problems if you also thought they were in the period from 2015 to 2019. However, we support the fact that it is being examined and, of course, we think that there is room for improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214185403	There is a question from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214185408	Now I actually thought that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's question was a bit of a teasing question, and that is why I planned a teasing answer when I pressed in. So now I hope that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen takes it in the spirit as it is said. Because I seem to recall that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen was a member of the Liberal Alliance during the period when the Liberal Alliance was part of that majority. So now Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen shares our concern about this, why didn't he take it up so we could have changed it back then?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214185435	Yes, exactly, but then I'm happy with the question, and especially when it's asked like that. Now I was part of the Liberal Alliance until 2016, and this is from 2018, and there I had resigned from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214185450	I don't think there are any more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. We're gonna have to get a little booze. Nor did he succeed in convincing Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen said that there should be a splash, but it may be that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur would then be phony with the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. He doesn't listen to what's being said anyway. It is not easy to control it when the rapporteur just disappears. Ole Birk Olesen It must be said that I am not quite as nervous about coronasmitte as the Presidency is, but I am happy to do so because the Presidency asks for it). That's because we've been told to go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214185510	Thank you. I think in my speech I will also try to answer Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's question, because I think it is a relevant question. Since there was a bourgeois majority from 2015 to 2019, why hasn't this been done, as the Left thinks it should be done? The reality is that we did something. We launched a government committee work to simplify the expropriation processes and greater legal certainty for citizens. We decided to go ahead with some things, and then we decided that other things, in the light of what we got from the expertise that we sought out, probably would not have the effects that one might initially have thought, and then we chose the best things that had come out of the work and went ahead with them. We decided that a bill should be tabled, and I do not really remember whether it was tabled before the election, or whether it was waiting until we could do so after the elections, because we did not reach it, but I understand that this government is at least working on it and has sent something in consultation and has received some input and that, under the impression of the inputs, it wants to change some things. I really have a lot of faith in that process. As I know the systems, there is no desire at least not for the government systems, in the ministries to do things badly for the citizens. I can be a little nervous about, given that it is the National Association of Municipalities that is involved and wants some changes, whether they may have some interests to which a major mayor party such as the Social Democratic Party is very responsive, and which we would not have been responsive to in the same way. But I am eagerly waiting for what comes out of that process and will play a part in the process when the government comes forward with a bill at some point, in case there are some things that have been changed in ways that I do not think they should change. However, in relation to what we did in the VLAK government at the time, there was no disagreement between the Left, LA and K about what we should go ahead with and what we should not go ahead with. Nor did I find any disagreement between ministers, in other words politicians, and then civil servants. We talked about things, and we agreed that this is what we could do, which will produce positive results, and that there were some other things that would have some secondary effects that might not be as positive and that we did not go further. It is also a little strange to me that we have been doing this thorough work and doing what we thought was best, in the light of the thorough work and then when we parties come into opposition, some of the parties in the former VLAK government seem to think that this was not good enough and that much more must now be done. It gives the impression that when you no longer talk as carefully about things as you did when you were in government, you want a lot more than you wanted when you were in government. For me, it's kind of on one side and a little on the other side. I often find it extremely problematic if decisions on expropriation are taken if they are made for a purpose. I do not think that expropriation legislation should be applied when it is more of a private benefit or that it should be possible to resolve it in other ways than by expropriation. So I would like to signal that we are on the side of the citizens, but I have been part of a work that was on the side of the citizens, and we reached some conclusions, and now we want something that goes further than the conclusions, which is why I have some doubts about the seriousness of what has been presented here, and therefore I am considering whether we should vote yellow for everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214185947	We thank the rapporteur. The rapporteurs for the Free Greens and the Christian Democrats are not here, and then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214190002	Thank you for the floor and thank you again for the debate. It should not be a secret that I am slightly annoyed by the debate, because it was the case that this proposal was referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to hold an expert hearing. I will come back later to what the expert hearing sort of dealt with. Once the proposal has been retabled, it is because the expert hearing could only take place in September, and it had something to do with corona and everything else, so that is why it has been tabled again, because otherwise a motion for a resolution will die when it goes from one period to another. That is why it has been tabled again. It has to be said that the proposal is very much about further progress, and what goes on is that society limits value and reduces values by a great many things. Now we have mentioned area reservations, and right now we are facing a huge green transition, etc., where a great many of the disadvantages that society as a whole is putting on citizens very much do not lead to an expropriation, but some of the conflicts are, of course, very much about how the citizen feels treated. It can, for example, be done. There is also the possibility of setting up a tomb of raw materials, because then there are some neighbours nearby, and there is currently no possibility of providing them with compensation, because the legislation does not have the possibility of doing so. It was just a preliminary talk. Last year's debate also considered whether it was necessary to take a look at this. The previous speaker mentioned that earlier, when my party was involved, the government chose to implement some of the Commission's proposals as there were. And we have then subsequently turned it around like this and said that there are a lot of things that really affect people too, and that is why we started a job again, where we just say what it is that plays a role. We are pleased that the Minister of Transport is, in this way, launching work on a procedural law, but it is also important to say that expropriation and decisions restricting people's property rights are taken on very many different legal bases. It may be the law of the museum, it may be the environment where you regulate the possibility of fertilizing and everything else, where you have something called replacement-free regulation, and when do you have it? So the state and the municipality also act differently. When a municipality expropriates, it is one set, but when the state expropriates, it is another piece of legislation, and I assume that is one of the things you have to work with. What we are now saying is that the legislative proposal that the Minister has put in motion, and we very much appreciate that, is postponed to the next session, but we did not, of course, achieve our resolution last year, and that is why it is being retabled. We also think that the consultation answers that come and that the dialogue that exists is really, really important. So I just say calmly that what we are asking for is a discussion of the overall process of public intervention, and when we say something about the fact that we want a description of what the consequence is, it is not only when it leads to an expropriation, it is also, if you make a decision on a large renewable energy plant, how it affects the surrounding society? An EIA statement is sometimes made, but no account is made of how it then affects property value etc., and it has to be said that some of the resistance we experience, for example. on renewable energy installations, currently, to the very highest extent one could also say not in my backyard, as some do ■ also has something to do with economics. So what we are just asking for is that we sit down and discuss the overall problem complex, and we hope for that, of course. With regard to the expert hearing we had, I would say that there was both the expert responsible for the work of the Commission of Expropriation and led it, and there were also experts who work professionally on extraction of raw materials from a region, and there were some who had experienced being limited in what they could with their business, where an area reservation had been made for a road. So I actually think it made a big impression on those who experienced it and listened to the expert hearing. We are now living at a time when, more than before, we need common solutions to our common problems, and the challenges we have are probably not reflected in the constitution that was adopted very, very many years ago, because there are some of the things we are doing today that have a greater impact on the individual to the benefit of the majority and society as a whole. There I think we have to tell ourselves that we are trying to solve our common problems. And then we just have to say that we're not all equal. There are some who can almost get bumpy, if I may say so, in this context. And there I can say that there are a few who sometimes pay a high price for the community to move forward. If we look at how it works, we can, for example. take renewable energy plants; wind turbines are mostly found in West Jutland. If we look at the capital, it would like to be CO2 So it has an impact on the fact that there are some citizens in Western Jutland who are experiencing a disadvantage for which they do not think the few regulations are enough. It's resisting. So there are actually a lot of examples where individual individuals come into play and where their property value and their glory value come into play. There I think we need to have a discussion about how much we should tolerate as individuals. We in the Left believe that it is important that there is complete agreement on how citizens and businesses should deal with the system when this happens. We need an agreement on when to expropriate, when to replace, how to compensate and when to do so, for example. is a matter of compensation-free regulation. As a citizen, you have to have a certain degree of predictability in cases where the government interferes with or around your property. The system today is not perfect. The Folketing has previously recognised the problem by setting up the Committee of Expropriation. The government recognises the issue when the Minister will make legislative proposals that resolve some of the problems. The Minister shall propose to implement two further recommendations of the Committee of Expropriation. The previous government implemented other recommendations. I'd like to sign for that. This is important, even if the legislation has now been postponed until next year. But we in the Left do not believe that it solves all the challenges, because it is not just about expropriation, but also about all the other interventions that I have mentioned before. As far as possible, objective criteria are lacking as to how public intervention is to take place and at what cost. What's fair? How much must the individual tolerate? That is what we hope this resolution will enable us to discuss in the negotiating room, and that is what we have not done in preparation for legislation; we have not sat down and said: how is it going to work? It is true that we have made some points of view on this, but I think it is important that we risk our fur. And it may well be that not everyone here agrees on where the problems are and how we solve them. However, I think that a great many people can understand that there are some problems. But I hope that we can agree that we can create a better system than what we have today. In the future, the public sector must be able to meet our common challenges more often than not, but it must be done with proper and transparent processes. There is a great need for public intervention and initiatives not to delay, but to make them quicker and more flexible, both for the sake of the legal certainty of the citizens and the speed with which the green transition takes place. We have a huge challenge in terms of making things go faster as well, while at the same time ensuring the legal certainty of citizens. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214190845	There is one question from Mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214190848	Thank you, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer to table the motion for a resolution so that we can have a good debate. And I shall agree with Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer. We must ensure that the citizen gets a better process and we must ensure that it is transparent and that the citizen feels well treated through this process. And it also fully covers what I understand is the intention behind the proposal on which the Minister of Transport is working. That is why I am also surprised that this proposal says that the Left wishes to fully implement the report of the Committee on Expropriation. For what has happened since we dealt with this last time is that we have received this paper from the Minister for Transport of 27 September 2021, which actually says that there are problems with some of the things proposed by the Committee on Expropriation. If it were to be the case that the committee's proposals were implemented, this would lead to a longer period of time for the individual citizen. And that cannot be in anyone's interest, as I hear the rapporteur say. So I would like to ask: does the rapporteur not look forward with pleasure to the fact that, when the Minister comes up with his proposal, we will have something that meets the citizen even more than what the Committee on Expropriation has actually proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214190958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214191000	I just don't entirely agree with that. Because when we look at the proposals of the Commission of Expropriation, there is, of course, a change in the way the process around the municipal system works. And there it is at least the intention of the President of the Commission for Expropriation that the processes should go faster, especially as regards the municipal process. I therefore think that it is also very important for me and the Left to highlight the aspect that it is not only when we are in the expropriation situation that we say we have to look at what is going on. It is also, if I may say so, what is called 'with further action', where we put people in a difficult situation, for example. Makes an area layout for a road, because then there is actually no option to seek compensation now. How long can such an area layout last? Is it for 20 years as it was in Silkeborg, or do you have to set a limit and say that if it lasts more than, for example. 3 years, then you have to pay a compensation to the person who has his business in the area where the site is located.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214191106	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214191108	Then I have a question about the economy of this motion for a resolution, because it says on the one hand that full cover must be available for the costs of legal and other expert assistance in expropriation cases, conservation cases, claims, compensation cases and the like. That sounds like something that costs a lot of money. On the other hand, the Left writes here that the negotiations on this proposal must ensure the implementation of the above, on the basis that overall it does not entail additional costs for the state, regions or municipalities. Where do you find money for it if it is not allowed to lead to additional costs? Well, it sounds very expensive if there's a lot of lawyers on the field and a lot of money to do this. Is it the case that the Left is again putting forward a proposal in which funding is not supported?
ParlaMint-DK_20211214191150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214191152	That is not our view. In fact, we believe that the processes should be streamlined, and the President of the Commission of Expropriation has in fact made particular mention of the fact that the very efficiency of the processes will lead to savings. And in this context, the extra cost arises when it ends up in a court of law, and there you could very well imagine that you had a system of what you have when you grant the free process in ordinary court cases, so that someone cannot just take for themselves. So it is not our view that it is the driving force of expenditure. We hope that the overall proposal will in this way be cost-neutral.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214191236	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211214191248	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 15 December 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
