ParlaMint-DK_20211028100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill no. L 56 on the communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Minister for Finance (Nicolai Wammen): Bill No. L 57 on the Law on Welfare. Mette Thiesen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 22 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the transfer of Article 7 cases from the Family Court House to family law). Trine Torp (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 23 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to help children as relatives). Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 24 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution setting up an electoral commission on local elections). Henning Hyllested (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 25 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to pause the Lynetteholm project). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Socialist People's Party Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed Rasmus Steenberger as an alternate member of the Board of Appeal from 26 October 2021 instead of Jesper Pagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028100104	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 5 by Mr. Rasmus Stoklund (S) and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 34 (S), against 73 (V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 5 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 4 by Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF) and Pernille Vermund (NB) and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 11 (DF and NB), against 96 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 4 has been rejected. Then we shall vote on the motion for a resolution No. V 6 of Mads Birded (V) and Marcus Knuth (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 36 (V, KF and LA), against 71 (S, DF, SF, RV, EL, NB and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 6 has been rejected. Then we shall vote on the motion for a resolution No. V 7 by Mr. Carl Valentin (SF), Kathrine Olldag (RV), Rosa Lund (EL) and Jens Rohde (KD), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 27 votes (SF, RV, EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 80 votes (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 7 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028100320	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028100342	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I ask those who do not wish to take part in the negotiations to leave the Chamber. Now there has been time to leave the Chamber, so now I expect there to be quiet in the Chamber, so we will continue the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028100438	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028100459	The debate is open. It's sir. Orla Hav and not Mrs Anne Paulin, who is the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028100518	Yeah, there's a lot of temps at the moment. Anne Paulin, who should have had the proposal, is ill today, so I have promised to take it. So thank you for the floor. The aim of the legislative proposal before us today is to promote efficient cooling and technology development in that sector. It is the case that the potential for remote cooling is great, and it is therefore necessary that we put in place initiatives that enable us to meet the great potential. The initiatives to be launched by the draft law are initiatives from the 2018 Energy Agreement as well as initiatives that follow up the EU Energy Efficiency Directive. These are initiatives involving the abolition of the synergy requirement so that municipalities can choose free-cooling technology themselves. It is also a question of clearer rules for the geographical demarcation of municipal district cooling activity, so that district cooling projects continue to benefit the municipalities' own citizens, and clearer rules for regulatory approval by establishing a definition of efficient cooling. And then it is a requirement for private and municipal cooling companies to provide information on production and capacity data in order to provide a better data base, and finally the possibility to delegate tasks to other authorities, including the supervision task with the sector to the Supply Inspectorate. With these listed initiatives, we want to ensure that the great potential in the area of remote cooling is exploited. I think I can make a little ad block. Sometimes Aalborg Portland has been on the agenda in the second context. It is the case that where Aalborg Portland is located, there is a huge chalk grave containing billions of cubic meters of water. It's cold. So you have made a forward-looking agreement between the new super hospital, which is not far away, Aalborg Municipality and Aalborg Portland to provide remote cooling to the new super hospital from the water mass located at Aalborg Portland. I think this is a practical and an earthy example of how we can, through good cooperation and good creativity, get good energies in our society, where we place less strain on the environment. In fact, that is what we really want, and the Social Democrats support it with this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028100759	This type of advertising is certainly possible to continue from the speaking chair of the Folketing. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028100810	Thank you for the floor. There is no doubt that the climate is high on the agenda and we owe it to each other to ensure the green transition. Therefore, we are pleased to say that we led a broad agreement in 2018, when we concluded the energy agreement, which among other things. The aim was to launch a series of initiatives to promote the development of the remote cooling sector, such as free technology choice and better opportunities for the operation of remote cooling projects across municipal boundaries. The previous speaker told us precisely about an example of how different technologies can be used for remote cooling. It is no use having an untapped potential for green conversion in the area of remote cooling. There is no point in imposing bureaucratic layers on the municipalities that weaken green development. Greater freedom in technology choice and therefore better conditions for performing an efficient remote cooling business will therefore be a positive boost in the right direction. It is important that we use the municipalities' competences and opportunities to develop an efficient and green market for remote cooling in Denmark. Then it is also the case, and it is positive here, that the municipalities will also be given greater freedom to operate remote cooling, but this must not weaken competition and affect the private sector. It must never be the responsibility of the municipalities to engage in business activities. The primary task of the municipalities is to carry out tasks which benefit the general good and the municipality's own citizens. We therefore welcome the continued geographical demarcation of municipal cooling activities and the fact that it is written down in the law, so that no one is in any doubt as to the conditions under which a municipality can engage in remote cooling activities within and outside the municipality limit. And now we are in the metropolitan area, and there we have a big undertaking called HOFOR, which works across municipalities, and precisely ensuring how it is to be managed is of course important. The Left can support the bill and support the green transition as it is reflected in this agreement. We are pleased that the municipalities can work under more freedom, while at the same time taking care of our business. The Left can support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101029	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101041	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you to the Minister for putting forward this excellent draft law, which is part of the overall green transition that we in the Danish People's Party agree with and on which a broad majority of the Danish Parliament has committed itself. This applies both to district heating and to district cooling, and I agree with the excellent points made by Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer made a speech on how important it is to ensure that things are done in a competitive way and that municipalities should therefore not, of course, have to run competing business with private companies. So the Danish People's Party can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101123	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101137	Well, like the previous rapporteurs, I have to say that the Radical Left is, after all, part of the political agreement on cooling that is now being implemented. We would really like to promote the development of remote cooling, which we seem to have been treated on a spatial basis, and it has been difficult to roll out in practice. I hope that we will have a very large market for green cooling. I also welcome the fact that we are getting the right distinction here between the municipal role and the private role in the area of remote cooling, and I am delighted to see these cooling projects every day, among other things. the benefits of Christiansborg. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101209	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101220	Yes, thank you. The Enhedslisten is also for us to get a law on remote cooling and get it handled in a way that the district heating companies we have and the district heating companies that provide solutions to several municipalities can also act in the area of remote cooling. When I see in the consultation note what has come in, I think there is one thing we should do. I think that what is on page 2 is a bit strange, commenting on a number of consultation responses on remote cooling across municipal boundaries: the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply takes note of the proposal to include a derogation allowing a municipal cooling company to obtain a derogation from the geographical demarcation. In this context, the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply notes that it has not been part of the framework of the model presented, but that the possibility of derogation from the geographical demarcation is noted for future amendments to the law. ▪ I feel that when you have a parliamentary year, it is not a matter of having as many legal proceedings as possible. That's not the goal. And if, at the third reading of this bill, we can do it a little better, why shouldn't we do it so that we don't have to make some minor change? I read it as if this exemption option is really something you take down as something that might be sensible. Well, why not make a small amendment to the bill here and then take it into a solution now, so we don't have to make some little adjustment if this law is a year or two when it turns out that there is a small problem that needs to be solved? So I'm very much in favour of making the law a little better on that point. I think that, in general terms, when building new buildings, we should also think about whether we can have natural ventilation so that we do not have a technological solution to cool the building down. It is my impression that in some countries there is a focus on that, among other things. in Germany, where it is a matter of architects and engineers coordinating their knowledge, so that buildings are built that do not run into the fact that they have a great cooling need. So there is also a task within the construction industry not only to think that you can make a remote cooling solution, but also by thinking that you get your buildings made so that you let go of all the installations in order to cool the building at some times. But we support this amendment to the bill and we support the intentions of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101508	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which means that we move on to Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101516	Thank you for the floor. L 28 is part of implementing the 2018 Energy Agreement and promoting the development of remote cooling, which has great potential, and this is done by removing the synergy requirement for district heating in order to create better opportunities to find new technological routes. We are very much in favour of using the municipal supply area to promote green conversion, and that is why, of course, there is a great deal of good in this law and the agreement that we are in. But I would say that we do agree here with Enhedslisten that with the geographical demarcation it seems a little bit artificial to say that we also have to stick to the fact that there are private companies when there are such large plants and you are close to municipal borders, so it also has one, you might say, synergy effect in relation to the next municipality. Now the Socialist rapporteur used the example of Aalborg Portland and the cooling that is there, and also the super-sickhouse that is up there. But if you look at the geography in relation to Aalborg, it is not far to Rebild Municipality, and they might benefit from this, so why not also give it the opportunity that you can do things across municipal borders that we also have here at the metropolitan area? Therefore, we would suggest that with a derogation it should also be included in the law here, so that it becomes a more flexible law, compared to where it makes sense to exploit the synergy effect between municipalities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101657	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101703	Thank you. With reference to the description given by the previous rapporteurs, new citizens can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101711	Thank you. I can see that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen hastens up to the platform. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101721	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101726	I understand, sir. Karsten Filsø, SF, also wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101734	Thank you. Although our energy is becoming more and more green, the best energy is still the one we are not using. When we use remote cooling for large office buildings, server rooms or process water in companies, we can save a lot of energy, and that is obviously smart. Therefore, it makes sense to make it more profitable to make remote cooling with appropriate regulation. The draft law also provides for a clarification which facilitates the establishment of facilities that promote energy-efficient cooling. And the proposal makes it easier for municipalities to set up remote cooling projects. We support the proposal from the SF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101820	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028101829	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their various comments on the draft law. The aim of the bill is to promote efficient remote cooling and technology development in the sector. Remote cooling is an energy efficient tool for producing cooling. Today, Denmark is only covered approx. 1% of our cooling consumption with remote cooling. It is therefore assessed that there is a large untapped potential for remote cooling and there is an increasing demand for remote cooling from industrial and commercial enterprises. The draft law, which is under consideration today, will implement initiatives from the Energy Agreement 2018 as well as initiatives that follow up the EU Energy Efficiency Directive. With the bill, we are taking an important step in the development of an efficient remote cooling sector. First of all, the so-called synergy requirement is abolished. This removes an important barrier for municipal remote cooling companies to choose the most profitable technology. With a free choice of technology, it is expected that the industry will use technologies that produce surplus heat. In the external consultation we became aware that there is a need to allow companies to use this surplus heat. Following the consultation, therefore, a legal basis has been incorporated in the draft law to allow municipal remote cooling companies to supply excess heat from the production of remote cooling. This legal basis will improve the profitability of the projects and ensure the use of an energy source which can be used in the green conversion. These initiatives should promote technology development and ensure cheaper and more energy efficient remote cooling. In practice, the synergy requirement has been a definition of where municipal remote cooling companies can operate remote cooling. It has not been the intention to provide the municipal remote cooling companies with a free framework to operate by remote cooling across the country. Therefore, clear rules are introduced that municipal district cooling companies can only operate remote cooling outside the municipality limit in areas associated with the municipality's district heating company. Initiatives are also being implemented that follow up the demands of the Energy Efficiency Directive. Firstly, clear and more easily understandable rules are created for the approval of municipal cooling projects, among others. by specifying when a project is effective. This will provide municipalities with a more tangible tool for managing project approval. However, questions have also been raised in the consultation process as to whether there is a need for project approval when we are talking about remote cooling. This is something that we will follow up and we will look further into the need for regulatory approval of municipal cooling projects. Secondly, a better data base is being created for the sector. This is done by introducing requirements for the transmission of production and capacity data. With a better data base, the authorities will be better placed to monitor and regulate the remote cooling sector. Finally, authorisation is introduced to allow the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply to relocate the supervisory task if desired at some point in time. This will standardise the provision in relation to similar provisions in the area of supply. At the same time, the authorisation constitutes a guarantee of the future in the light of the growing EU requirements that are expected to follow the green transformation of the supply sector. Overall, the bill will support the development of an efficient remote cooling sector, which will help reduce energy consumption in the cooling sector to the benefit of Denmark's ambitious green conversion. Finally, I would like to thank you for your interest in the draft law and I look forward to the committee's examination of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102223	There is a brief comment. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102228	Yes, it is, in terms of whether we can make this bill even better, whether we can get in that there will be a derogation when remote cooling via district heating companies is so little widespread and there is a climate potential. The minister himself mentions that there is only 1%. distance cooling coverage in relation to the cooling required. And we have a tradition that there are some district heating companies operating in several municipalities, that is to say selling services across the municipality border, and it can be reasonable to have a grid that can take some cities outside the municipality that owns the district heating company • and there may also be joint municipal companies. I do not think that in the Minister's presentation I heard commenting on the desire to introduce a derogation. I would like to hear from the Minister whether this is something on which we could reach an agreement. I also heard that the Conservatives had spotted this little problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102332	The draft law seeks to reproduce as loyally as possible what we believe is the mandate from the agreement, as we interpret it. When I look into this side of the House, it is also because I know that the Left has had some concerns about the fact that the freer framework that is being given to the municipalities now should not be understood as a completely free framework. But I am certainly willing to look at it again, and in committee you can discuss it with each other, and of course we can also discuss it with me in the ministry. And if there is broad support for that, I would also like to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102406	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102408	Thank you for that reception. I interpret this as saying that if we from the committee send a request for help on an amendment to the draft law, the Minister will be in favour of it. Then he just has to persuade the Left to tone down their liberalisation habits and instead to base himself on the Community-based solutions, which are the best ones and which, of course, make it cheaper for companies to have a remote cooling solution. So there will be an exciting task there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102442	I see there's a good eye contact between Mr. Knox. Carsten Kissmeyer and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, so I'm thinking that they're gonna be okay with each other, and I'm gonna be happy to help from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102451	That is the way political negotiations can be. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102506	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102525	Thank you, President-in-Office, and again I am in charge of temporary work. The climate crisis is one of our absolutely greatest challenges facing us as a global society, and there should now be no doubt about this when researchers repeatedly state that it is acute, most recently with the August IPCC report. However, while many of the world's countries and their leaders are preparing to go to Glasgow to attend the United Nations Climate Summit, COP26, there are still doubts about the participation of several large countries and their priority for the climate crisis, and it is lagging behind in reporting reduction targets off 2030 and into the process. In Denmark, our greenhouse gas emissions account for only 0.1 per cent. of global emissions. We cannot solve this crisis ourselves or alone, but we can lead the way. Instead of climate delay, we take climate action, and we do so, among other things. with this bill. We set an end date for exploration and extraction of oil and gas from 2050, we cancel all future tender rounds for permits for exploration and extraction of oil and gas. At the same time, it is made possible to conclude a voluntary agreement on the surrender of permits for companies for which the end date will have a major impact. We are putting an end to the so-called open door system for oil and gas recovery, where it has been possible for companies to apply for authorisation for the exploration and extraction of fossil fuels, nor will it be possible to establish new open door arrangements. It can be said that it is an era that is over, because the extraction of oil and gas from the North Sea has contributed significantly to the financing of the welfare state that we know today, but when we set an end date, as we do with this bill, we commit ourselves to ensuring that the welfare of the future is not financed at the expense of our climate. In future, it will not be oil and gas drilling platforms that will be spotted in the North Sea, but wind turbines and a future energy island. Our future must be green, and that is why we in the Social Democratic Party support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102754	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102757	Thank you. Now the rapporteur is talking about the end of an era. Aren't we risking this deal that we're really prolonging an era? In other words, there was support in the previous North Sea agreement for companies to be able to drill for oil up to 2050. Do we not really risk prolonging that oil adventure at a time when we could have stopped it sooner? 'Cause there's barely anyone here who's gonna bid on these future rounds.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102830	How to conform to the bill that is now here is hard to know. But it is a clear signal from the Danish Parliament and from the government that one goes out and says that one now wants to end the era. And then I believe that it has an effect in relation to those companies which could see an opportunity to look for oil and gas anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102859	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102901	Is the rapporteur aware that that era might have ended all by itself before 2050? Is the rapporteur, for example? Know that there was only one provider for the last round here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102915	Yes, I am well aware of that, and I am also well aware that the layers from which oil has been removed are less extensive at this stage than they have been. So the interest in it has been cooled. But no one says that you have to keep going until 2050. If the market side is also pointing in the direction we would like, namely to replace oil and gas with some other, more green fuels or energy sources, then it is a scoop that we have both that are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102950	Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028102954	When Denmark decides that less oil should be pulled out of the Danish part of the North Sea, it will all the other things being equal lead to the prices of oil on the world market being slightly higher, and that will then lead to the other countries that have not stopped producing oil, pulling more oil out of the underground because they are now getting a little more money for the oil. Can the Socialist rapporteur tell us how little the effect on world oil production is on Denmark's decision that Denmark will not withdraw oil?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103030	I tried to say in the speech how small a load rate Denmark is compared to this, and it was 0.1 per cent. So if there is the same magnitude in relation to the impact on the consumption of oil, then it is not we who are overturning the city. And, by the way, it's hard with my long memory to predict how the market reacts to oil. I remember when OPEC shut down the oil taps to get the prices up. It's not like you know how the market works in this situation. So I think it is wise for us to make ourselves less dependent on individual energy sources and to diversify our energy supply into more energy sources.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103116	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103118	We are doing the opposite here; we are restricting our energy supply with a single source of energy. The problem is not so much that Denmark is a very small part of the world's oil production. The problem is that oil production in other countries is increasing by almost the same amount as oil production, which we are now ending with in Denmark. According to the Ministry's own figures. Well, we're talking about 90-95 percent. of the oil that we stop producing is produced extra in countries other than Denmark. That is what I would like the Socialist rapporteur to say: what is the benefit of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103157	The benefit is that we experience some experience of how to replace oil as a source of energy from Denmark by investing in wind, sun and all the other energy sources that are less burdensome for our climate and environment. So I actually think there are good effects of it. And I believe that the 0.1-percent load of our oil consumption does not, I believe, trigger any dramatic price increases on the world market.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103234	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103251	Thank you for the floor. With this bill, we will introduce an end date in 2050 for exploration and extraction of oil and gas in Denmark. We in the Left think this is big, and then we think it is just the right thing to do. This is an important step for the green transition, and it helps to ensure a clear direction, both for Denmark as a country and for the industries concerned. And frankly, we are also a little proud on behalf of Denmark that we are now becoming the first major oil-producing country in the world to decide to stop pumping oil and gas out of our underground. It is an historic decision and it will not be diminished by the current energy crisis. We show that we want the green transition and that we mean it when we say that we will be climate neutral by 2050. It is not because I, as an opposition politician, always have to find hair in the soup, but there is also hair in the soup here. With the bill, we are only implementing parts of the agreement on the North Sea that we entered into with the government and a broad majority in the Folketing last year. The fact is that with the North Sea agreement we also agreed that we should develop ccs in the North Sea and that we should ensure continued growth and development in Esbjerg. It was at the heart of the Left in the North Sea Agreement that we ensure that the more than 10,000 jobs in South West Jutland, especially in Esbjerg, are converted into green jobs, and that is why we need to start developing ccs and invest in the development of South Jutland's marine industry. It is highly questionable that that part of the North Sea Agreement is not included in this bill. Esbjerg has in the past been developing from fishing to oil and gas production, and now we are taking steps towards their becoming a green energy metropolis. It is an adaptability that Denmark as a whole must learn from when we have to take the leap to be climate neutral by 2050, but it therefore requires that we get started now. It is therefore important for us to stress that the development of ccs in the North Sea and the conversion of existing jobs in oil and gas production to green jobs are not further delayed. Unfortunately, however, things are moving too slowly on the part of the government, far too slowly. The industry is ready, but they cannot get started because the government's work on preparing the framework is delayed. And that's why it's 100 million. We are even in a situation where we are in a race for the green transition with our neighbouring countries to develop the technologies needed to capture and store CO2 And, contrary to the situation when we established ourselves as a pioneer in wind energy, there is enormous competition in the market for the storage of CO2 Unfortunately, this also means that every second waste places the industries that today live on oil and gas recovery at a disadvantage. It is in the long run bad for Danish economy, Danish jobs and not least the green transition. So, from this point of view, there must be a very strong signal that the development of ccs and conversion to green jobs must be set in motion now and must not be delayed further. In pursuit of our national climate targets, it is crucial that we do not give up Danish jobs, Danish competitiveness and growth, or that we move emissions abroad instead of effectively reducing them. This requires us to be a real pioneering country for follow-up and inspiration in the rest of the world. So when we vote in favour of this in many ways landmark legislative proposal, it is with the expectation that we will follow up timely investments in green technologies and jobs to replace oil and gas recovery. And then I can finish by saying that I should greet the Conservative People's Party and say that they are completely in line with the Left on this issue. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103659	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103703	Then you set the noble goal that no oil will be produced in Denmark after 2050. Can the rapporteur of the Left say whether the corresponding noble objective is that oil should not be consumed in Denmark by 2050? Because if we have not set the target and we still have to consume oil in Denmark, what we are now expected to vote for is simply that the oil we produce after 2050 is to be produced elsewhere than in Denmark and what is the point of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103738	We have a goal to be climate neutral by 2050. And in a number of areas we do not know how to become completely independent of oil, but it is quite clear that by 2050 we will have a much, much less consumption of oil, because we would like to switch to renewable energy sources. We would have liked to phase out black cars and drive electric cars or hydrogen cars or whatever you wanted. So we have an expectation that the demand for oil will also decrease dramatically. And when we say that we have a stop to the extraction of oil, it also means that we will then start creating the other green jobs and thus become a pioneering country.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103816	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103819	So the policy of the Left is entirely official, that after 2050 Denmark must continue to consume oil, but the oil must not be produced by Denmark itself, it must be produced by some other countries. Can the Left explain why when we still have to consume oil after 2050 we are not allowed to produce oil ourselves, why it is important that the oil is produced in countries other than Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103844	Well, I cannot tell you what the future will be in 2050, i.e. what will happen in 30 years' time, and whether it will be necessary to have oil in 30 years' time at all. What I can say is that right now there are probably some things you don't know how to do without oil. But it may also be that the oil we already have is sufficient if you recycle it, for example, when you make plastic products, so recycle the oil that is in plastic when you create new recycled plastic products. I have a hope that we will use very, very little oil and, in fact, nothing in 2050. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103922	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, and then we move on. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028103936	Thank you, President. There is not much that has been discussed as thoroughly and hecticly in the energy circle as the issue of Denmark's oil production in the North Sea, and it is also something that has been discussed • I have to be open and honest and say inside the Danish People's Party, for some of the dilemmas that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen travels is completely real. It is very difficult to predict what the world will look like in 30 years' time, and one can just think back to 1991 and ask: did anyone then foresee just a fraction of what society would look like today? I don't think a lot of people have hit it right. When we have chosen to endorse this proposal, it is due to a number of preconditions. First of all, as other rapporteurs have mentioned, we are very concerned about the forthcoming investment in CCS and, as such, CCU technologies, so that we in Denmark are leading, as we have been in other areas, and hopefully leading in both the development and export of the new technology, where CO2 is not just stored, which is why it is essential for us that it is included in this proposal, in this agreement. Then there is the whole question of how we compensate for the shifts that are taking place in society as a result of the fact that we are moving more and more towards alternative energy supplies not only in Denmark but throughout Europe, in many parts of the Western world. And, of course, when I talk about shifts, I mean the problem of not having stable sources of supply anymore, or at least gradually dismantling them as we know them, coal power stations, nuclear power stations and others who have, of course, been spectacled by ensuring low and stable energy prices. It is clear that when you go more and more to having energy sources that depend on the whims of nature, whether the sun shines, whether the wind blows, it creates some completely new problems and we expect, and that is why I am telling you now, when I have the Minister's undivided attention, that the government will take initiatives to ensure the things we agreed on when we made the climate agreement, among other things. in view of the fact that the green transition must not increase the social imbalance, social inequality. It is extremely important that we take seriously the concerns that I think are quite justified at the moment from broad parts of Danish society about the rising energy prices, which are, of course, directly derived from the fact that the green transition has been initiated. It means quite a lot to a lot of families' economies, that they have rising electricity prices, rising heating bills, etc., and if we are to pursue the green ambition, and we want to do so in the Danish People's Party, and that is why we also support this bill, it is of course necessary that we also commit each other to making initiatives that prevent the major imbalance. That is why I would just like to say that, in the next few weeks, when we press the green button for this proposal, it will happen with the condition that the government will also make some proposals on how to mitigate the negative effects of the green transition, as I believe we can all see. In those words, we can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104313	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104317	Yes, you see this from time to time campaigns that encourage to buy Danish. Buy Danish! sounds the campaign, and on some of the products there is a small formbrog flag, and others just write "Produced in Denmark" etc. There may be a value in this, because here in Denmark we think we have control of production methods etc. Perhaps it is also just nice to buy something that is produced in our own country. So this is a buy not a Danish law. It is a law that is about that, although after 2050 we will still consume oil in Denmark, for God's sake, that oil cannot be produced in Denmark. It must be produced in Russia, or it must be produced in the Middle East, it must be produced in all kinds of places other than Denmark. What's the point of that? Why can we not produce the oil in Denmark that we expect to consume in Denmark after 2050?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104415	I think that's a perfectly correct point, and I think that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, with a quick look at Infomedia, will see that I have made that point of view myself. If we are here anyway, it is because, as I said in my speech, we are making certain binding demands of the government, partly because we cannot say for sure what Danish oil production would look like in the eighth round of invitations to tender. We are talking about something 29 years away, and we can see that the large energy companies throughout Europe are investing less and less in oil production, you put their money into something else, and it is therefore not certain that the favourable conditions that today and up to 2050 apply to Danish oil, both in relation to the climate footprint, price and the very sympathetic consideration of buying Danish, which is not so often heard from a liberal, will also apply at that time. On the basis of an overall view, we have therefore chosen to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104520	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104521	I don't understand any of that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt says, I don't understand what's in it, as sir. Morten Messerschmidt says that if we are to consume oil in Denmark after 2050, we can also produce oil in Denmark after 2050. I hear no argument from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's side, but just such weary considerations that you want to be part of an agreement. However, the basis of the agreement is pure crazy: the oil we consume in Denmark after 2050, the partout by law must be produced in the Middle East or in Russia and not in Denmark itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104601	When Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is going all the way to Russia and the Middle East, because Denmark is not the only country that has made this decision and that we have therefore said that we want to be on that trend, that movement, but of course not completely free of charge. We are insisting that there should be investment to replace those jobs, among other things. the development of new technologies. So that is the reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104626	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104628	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur draws attention to the fact that it is the green conversion that is responsible for rising energy prices. It is my impression that the opposite is true: it is gas prices that are increasing and thus pulling up other energy prices, but that the high impact we have on green, home-made energy sources actually helps to keep price increases down in Denmark. Can the rapporteur confirm that gas has increased by a factor of two in relation to the price of electricity here during the recent energy crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104659	I simply do not know, but I have no doubt that the rapporteur is right. But they are not directly competing markets either. In other words, those who demand gas products demand what you can get there, that is, for heating or for transport, or what you can get out of the gas, whereas electricity has some other characteristics that apply elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104718	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104720	I can deny that these are two separate markets, as gas, among other things, is one of them. is used for electricity production, and thus is the coherent vessel, connected vessels, when talking energy. That is why I would urge the rapporteur to look into this and, instead of reproaching the green shift for rising energy prices, to blame Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104739	Well, I don't deny that you can power the gas. I'm saying gas just has some characteristics that electricity doesn't necessarily have. Therefore, they are separate markets, although there are of course overlaps, and therefore price developments will also occasionally differ. And then I just have to point out that I actually have shares in Gazprom, but that does not mean that Russia is the only place to produce gas. This is also happening in a number of other countries, including Denmark, so it would be very strange to have to correct such criticism specifically towards Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104816	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Van der Klaauw. Karsten Filsø, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104827	Thank you. This bill bears witness to a broad majority in the Folketing, which has made an active choice to stop gas and oil extraction in the North Sea. This is a milestone in our green transition. With the agreement, Denmark will be the largest producer of oil and gas to date. In SF we are also pleased that the current open door area off the west coast of Jutland is being shut down. It is therefore an ambitious decision that other countries have not yet dared to take. I agree with other rapporteurs who have said that it is important that we now quickly become action-oriented here forward. With this agreement, we are setting a new standard which is helping to push other countries to also raise their ambitions to achieve the common climate targets. The agreement has been described as a turning point and a victory for the climate movement and an example of what real climate leadership looks like. I will conclude by saying that I am impressed with her, I am replacing her, Mrs Signe Munk, who I know has a clear share in this agreement. In the SF we are therefore very proud of the result and we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028104958	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105001	The Ministry's own estimate is that for every 100 tonnes of oil we pick up less in Denmark, in other countries you will pick up up up up up to 95 tonnes of oil because of this. So, the need for oil is still gone, and Denmark will even consume oil itself, so our lower production will therefore only result in an additional production in other countries that are approaching about what we produce less in Denmark. According to SF, why is it a very good idea to move oil extraction from Denmark to other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105038	Thank you. I'll try to answer with the Climate Council's words. It is estimated that the signal value will be significant. It is also about taking the lead and putting out some clues that others can follow, and I think this proposal is an expression of that. I do not know what cross-border trade will be like with this. I cannot predict that as much as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur can, but I think we are doing the right thing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105114	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105116	Yes, I am sure that Putin and the leaders in the Middle Eastern countries will accept the signal from Denmark and say: Hey, Denmark has stopped producing oil • Let us stop or drop ourselves! I was very ironic here. I think the opposite is happening. I think they say: Uha, Denmark stops producing oil • let us produce something more, because there is a need for it, and now Denmark is no longer producing it; then we can do it and make that money! What's won by that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105148	Things aren't gonna happen from tomorrow. We would have liked to see the steppes get over very quickly. This is going to be a stop in 2050, and we're fully on target for that. What happens next seems to me to be very difficult to foresee, and that has also been said by other rapporteurs who have answered the same questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105215	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105218	Thank you. Now the rapporteur says that the choice to stop drilling for oil and gas in the North Sea was an active choice. And it sounds almost as if the energy reconciliation circle is so the green saviors. Is the rapporteur aware of how many companies would even bid for the eighth round of invitations to tender?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105241	Here, at least, we make an active choice to stop. And there is no doubt about it, and it has also been said by the Social Democrat rapporteur up here just before the debate that, as we get there, interest will probably decrease. This is an analysis which I fully share. There is no doubt that interest in oil extraction in the North Sea will decrease over time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105314	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105316	I can inform you that there was only one company that wanted to bid for the eighth round of invitations to tender. The drilling for oil and gas is virtually becoming unpollutable and the pollution it creates is rising sharply. Would the rapporteur not agree that it may also be the business things that make us stop now, instead of pretending to be green saviors who stop oil drilling in the North Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105343	Well, I think that the discussion in the Danish Parliament and the willingness to make an active choice have an impact on the bidders. Of course, it is noticed around where the various cost analyses and cost-benefit analyses are made in relation to what can be profitable to invest in. But it makes sense that there are synergies between what is decided in this room and what is happening out there in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105418	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105427	Thank you very much. When Denmark has stopped using coal to a large extent • there is still a little bit left in North Jutland, it is not because there is a shortage of coal, and when we start to stop using oil, it is not because there is a shortage of oil. For the sake of the climate, we cannot use oil in the future. Fortunately, the oil's greatness is behind us, also globally. Developments are very strong in electricity, transport and ptx, even in oil companies. It is our desire to combat climate change by preventing Denmark's use of petroleum products. We want to ban, for example. the sale of fossil cars as quickly as possible; we want there to be an increasing incorporation of green fuels into aviation fuel; we want to go for the consumption of oil products in Denmark in particular. I hope that in 2050 we will have a scenario in which the oil and petrol used in Denmark goes to some clubs that operate veteran cars that run on petrol and, for my sake, they should be warmly welcome to import a few barrels of oil or three from somewhere other than Denmark, but it will not be Danish-produced oil. What we are doing today is, of course, putting a stop to the future of oil extraction. We respect agreements made. We are not going to run prematurely from the agreements that have been made, but we are no longer entering into new ones. It's about time. Personally, I look forward to the huge energy industry of the future, which will be about producing hydrogen and ptx. There will also be a huge industry in the future for storing CO2 What we get by 2050 is incredibly much better than what we say goodbye to. This is an important step on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105608	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and first it is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105613	Thank you. Now the Radicals have been working on a kind of climate plan here lately, where one among others is. I would like to know whether the Radicals have been interested in looking at what opportunities there are for putting CO2 in place. Have you been actively looking at how much you could say to go for a lead where you could phase out oil and gas recovery more quickly if you put a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105703	Thank you. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we will respect the agreements reached in relation to the framework conditions for the North Sea. In other words, the companies with which we have concluded agreements on current production have promised a certain tax regime, and we will not change that. Of course, we will be using CO2 2 2 2 but we do not want to have retroactive effect, if I may say so, to tamper with the agreements already concluded on the North Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105738	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105739	Well, that would make it even harder to reach the goal. I note that the Radicals have also begun to advocate that we should set our 70-percent target at something that is 80%, and it will be even harder to achieve if it is the case that we do not phase out any more of fossil production. This means that you have to do other extra things to get to the finish line. Can the rapporteur not see that it is a problem to have this agreement where fossil energy is brought up to 2050?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105813	Thank you. As long as there are cars running on petrol in Denmark, then petrol will be used in these cars, whether it has been picked up in the North Sea or elsewhere. Therefore, we believe that our main point here is to get people to stop driving in petrol cars, not to stop the production of petrol and oil at an early stage in the North Sea. We will continue to respect agreements reached there, but we will certainly try to undermine the market to which oil companies sell oil.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105838	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105841	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen hopes that by 2050 we have reached a point where the only oil needed in Denmark is for veteran car clubs. In other words, we also have manufacturers such as LEGO and Coloplast, etc. who use plastic products made from oil, and I have little difficulty in imagining that this will change significantly by 2050. And I must also say that the bricks produced by LEGO last for generations. So there will probably be a need for more oil in Denmark than for veteran car clubs. I simply do not understand the rationale behind the view of the Radical Left and the majority that that oil should not be produced in Denmark, for God's sake, but should be produced in Russia or in the Middle East. Can the rapporteur explain this to me?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028105939	It is my wish and that of the Radical Left that in 2050 we are CO 2 2 When you look at the industrial partnerships, they indicate a common framework for how we can get there. We would like to help manufacturers in Denmark to find alternative things that can be used for their production of plastic products. It is a well-known fact that the same raw materials can be obtained through different sugars and straw and other products. This will be necessary, because we will not be able to rely in the future on an everlasting production of plastic. Replacement products must be found for oil in relation to plastics by 2050. When I say that I hope that only a little petrol will be needed for veteran car clubs at that time, it is also because I have a clear political intention to make the transport sector, which today consumes so much petrol, oil and diesel, completely and completely independent of fossil fuels by that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028110036	Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028110037	But isn't that a strange way to go, to say that now we stop producing oil in Denmark, and then we just hope that we don't have a great need for oil after 2050? Should one not go the other way and say: What plans can one make to reduce the need for oil in Denmark after 2050, and then, as this need decreases, one can turn down the production of oil from Denmark? Otherwise, we will be faced with the fact that we are still consuming a larger quantity of oil in Denmark and that the oil production that will then be delivering that oil will then have to come from Russia and the Middle East instead of Denmark itself with this bill politically decided.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028110124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028110126	Well, for the sake of thought, let us say that I and my party manage to implement the plans we have and that in 2050 we are actually CO2 negative, i.e. absorb more CO2 Then should we continue to produce oil and then sell the products to Belgium and England and others, now that we have abolished consumption in Denmark? I have to say that would be the reverse consequence of this. But I have to assure you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says that we are not only looking at the supply in relation to stopping the oil wells we are also looking at consumption in Denmark, and that is what we are particularly looking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028110158	No one else has asked for brief comments. That is why we are grateful to the rapporteur and can move on to Mr Beazley's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028110210	Thank you. What we are discussing and discussing is, after all, a stop to the exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons after 2050 and a stop to new tendering rounds and a reduction in oil and gas areas etc. Last week a new research study was published to conclude that the oil giant Total has known about the negative impact of their oil hunting on the climate since the 1970s, that is, for over 50 years. At the same time, since the mid-1980s, total has been running an international campaign to counteract climate science so that they could continue their fossil activities without taking into account the climate. That's not surprising. Over the last few years, we have seen several examples of how the fossil industry has opposed climate action and cast doubt on climate science for decades, and unfortunately this is also evident here in the Danish Parliament, where it is only after the 2019 parliamentary elections that the whole civil block, or at least significant parts of it, believes that the climate is important. When I mention the study on Total, it is because Total is the biggest player in the Danish oil hunt, and by 2050, Total and the other oil companies have known about their oil hunt's negative impact on the climate for 80 years. It is 80 years in which they have been able to listen to science and to help find solutions to the climate crisis instead of helping to accelerate climate problems because they want to make money from oil and gas. It is very important to stop the oil hunt in the North Sea, but 2050 is far too late. We need to stop the oil hunt much faster, and I think it is essential that we clarify whether a CO2 I think it seems irresponsible when we are in the middle of a climate crisis and we have a climate minister and a prime minister who is about to go to a climate summit, while at the same time accepting oil hunting for 30 more years here in the Danish Parliament. That is why I would urge the government and the parties to the agreement to take responsibility for themselves and advance the halt to the North Sea oil hunt. It could be by 2030 at the latest. With the knowledge we have, it is therefore necessary that known oil and gas resources should not be used to a significant extent when we have to take climate problems seriously. The North Sea Agreement provides for the possibility of expanding oil production through mini-rounds and neighbouring block permits, and although it is our impression that the oil giants do not want to use those opportunities, we think they should be written out of this bill. We would have liked to have a look at this in committee. All opportunities for increased oil production should stop now. So I think there is little ambiguity, because does this legislative proposal mean that open door applications are completely stopped at sea and on land? After all, we have had some cases in North Jutland about the search for shale gas, and does this bill also include the fact that such applications cannot come into play? If it is not included, I really think it would be appropriate to get into the bill, so that we know for sure that there can be no one who such dribbles around and comes up with new initiatives in the fossil hunt. We have also seen in the past that an application was made to Lolland Falster, where it was actually geothermal, i.e. hot water in the underground, they would be looking for, but at the same time they would also like permission to be able to extract gas. We think it should be completely stopped and we think that this case really shows that a high CO2 I listened to this this morning in DR, where some pension funds defend that they are part of the ownership of Total, because they can then have a dialogue with them and perhaps influence them on what they want to invest in in 2050. I think it is poor, I think it is unambitious if it is Danish pension funds that help to hold hands under Total. So I hope that there is a debate that will continue even after this legislative process and that we will have a vitalised debate on what our pension funds are really supporting. I do not know if it will end with Enhedslisten voting in favour of this bill, because it is a step forward to stop the pursuit of oil. We just think it's way too late for you to do it in 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028110708	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028110720	Thank you. The Danish government and the contracting parties in both red and blue bloc want Denmark to be the leading country in the climate area with the Climate Act and the 70-percent target. This bill is also about us being a pioneer country. The Climate Council formulates it as follows: The pursuit of new oil and gas fields in the North Sea can damage Denmark's climate credibility on the international stage. By continuing the supply rounds in the North Sea, we risk watering down the status of pioneer country that Denmark achieves through ambitious reductions in greenhouse gas emissions within Denmark's borders. However, the Climate Council also says that international oil and gas markets inevitably mean that if Denmark produces less than that, other countries will produce more. The climate minister has also said that stopped oil and gas extraction from Danish underground in 2050 will have a very small direct effect on the climate and the world's total oil production, but it is an important step in the green transition and has a great signal value to the outside world. He hopes that the major oil producers will follow in the wake of Denmark. So it is about sending signals and symbolism policy, but what does that mean in practice? The Climate Council, to which the government always refers, is very honest in their assessments of the consequences of a stop to the tendering rounds in Denmark. The Climate Council writes on their website that it is to a much greater extent the global than the national dimension that is essential for reducing CO2 emissions from the industrial organisation Oil Gas Denmark agrees with the Climate Council that at a supply stop other countries will only increase recovery accordingly, Denmark drops down; that Danish extraction is less CO2 A stop to the granting of new licences will therefore mean that global CO2 It will also lead to less security of supply in Denmark in the next 10 years, when precisely imports of oil and gas are increasing. Denmark will remain a net importer of oil over the next 10 years and net imports will be increased if oil production is further reduced. Furthermore, actors such as OPEC have historically adjusted production to stabilise prices, thus neutralising a Danish variation in production with completely marginal adjustments in their production. However, if it is true that a reduced supply of Danish oil production leads to higher prices and hence a fall in demand, consumers will have to substitute the now more expensive oil with an alternative fuel which emits less CO2 coal. With this bill, the world's oil and gas production will just be carried out in countries with a larger CO2 A study from Stanford University in 2018 shows that Danish oil production is at the absolute top in terms of limiting greenhouse gas emissions in the production of oil. This is due to the quality of oil, i.e. the higher energy density per unit; oil, as well as the fact that extraction is associated with gas production, thus minimising flaring. Total emissions therefore increase if Danish oil production is merely replaced by an average foreign production. Denmark becomes poorer with the Climate Act and with L 30, and of course New Citizens will not support that. New citizens cannot therefore support L 30.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111102	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111107	Thank you. Now the rapporteur defends the right of companies to continue to offer oil in the North Sea. Has the rapporteur noticed that only one company took part in the eighth round of invitations to tender? In other words, it looks almost as if companies that want to bid at all are running out because the business case is getting so bad. Who's gonna bid these rounds if nobody wants to? Will the rapporteur himself bid or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111137	Oh, I'll find another way to finance my consumption if I have to afford it. In view of the fact that there is only one bidder, it is difficult to say how the oil price will develop, so there can easily be more who bid at a later stage. And if it is really the case that no one is interested in picking up the oil from the Danish underground, then there is no need for this law at all, because then it will go all by itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111157	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111158	Well, that law is also incredibly flawed in that we continue to support oil production until 2050. I would just draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that it is as if the rapporteur is trying to keep up a business that is dying of itself. It turns out that drilling for oil and gas in the North Sea is far, far less profitable today and in the future, according to all calculations. Well, it's a market that's dying of itself, so why keep it alive?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111230	I find it difficult to see oil disappearing from the market for a very long time, and I think the rapporteur himself can see this if he is honest with himself. So it makes no sense, therefore, that we in Denmark should not produce oil when we even make it relatively green in relation to global oil production. So there's no sense in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111253	There are no more brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111305	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is voting against the bill. This bill has no real effect; it just has to do that there are some politicians in the Parliament hall who can polish a halo a fictional halo, because it is not a real halo. You want to say you're good, but you're not good. Even if we stop producing oil in Denmark, it will not lead to the world market for oil being so much smaller as the amount of oil we take out of the world market. The Ministry's own expectations are that up to 95 percent. of the oil that we stop producing after 2050, instead will be produced additionally in other countries that continue to produce oil up to 95%.! So all they get out of this is that Denmark, which after 2050 is expected to still have a consumption of oil, will not be able to produce that oil itself. Instead, we must buy it from Putin's Russia. It will probably not be Putin's by then, after all, but his successor's Russia or some despots down in the Middle East that will still produce oil. Because it will happen that when we pluck our small amount of oil out of the world market, there is a little less oil available in the first place. Since consumption is still as it is, prices on the world market are rising, encouraging countries which continue to produce oil to increase production because they can now earn a little more money from it. That is what makes the Ministry say that if we reduce oil production in Denmark by 100 tonnes, the outside world will increase oil production by 95 tonnes. So it's nothing but halo polishes, which the vast majority of the Danish Parliament agrees to here. The red parties do the thing about polishing halos of habit... we see that over and over again. It doesn't matter so much whether it makes a difference out in the real world; what matters is that you can assert yourself as better than other people. Left, Conservative and Danish People's Party have jumped with this time, because it is not supposed to be called that you are not as green as the red ones are. What if the Reds managed to convince the world that they were more green with this, would the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party then be able to tell the truth that it's just fictional halo polish? Would it be possible to win that public debate? Ah, we're insecure about ourselves, we're not as good at arguing on television as the red ones are, so we just go with it, it's the easiest, says Left, Conservative and Danish People's Party. And that's why we get this broad majority that's doing this, even if it has no effect whatsoever in the real world. And, of course, the Liberal Alliance isn't in on that. We are not in other cases, and neither are we in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111618	Thank you. It is very appropriate, Mrs Bjerre, who now has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111628	Thank you. The rapporteur now had a very reasonable question for me in my rapporteur's speech about our expectations of the use of oil in 2050. And if you follow the rapporteur's premise, i.e. that by 2050 we still have to use fossil oil in this country, then I can understand the question and I understand the criticism. I'm not a chemist, but now it's just that you can make oil in other ways too. Already today we can make artificial oil that replaces fossil oil, and is it not also reasonable and reasonable that we should then set a target that we should not use fossil oil by 2050? For this will also create a market for creating this artificial oil, this sustainable oil, which we will need in 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111719	Yeah, you can do that in theory. But it is more expensive to produce the oil artificially than it is to pull it out of the underground, so producers will probably not do so unless the Folketing decides that it should be prohibited to use natural oil. Is that what we are hearing now, that is, that the Left will ban the use of oil pulled out of the underground in Denmark from 2050 onwards? Will the Left ban the use of that oil?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111749	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111751	However, if we are to be climate neutral by 2050, there must be a demand for artificially produced oil, that is, alternative oil forms. And we would like to be a pioneer country where fossil oil is not used for the rest of the world. And then it's all about creating a market at home to create this artificial oil, and we won't if we keep producing fossil oil. So for the fact that it's fictional gloriepudsning, I'd say it's by no means. This is actually a sensible policy, it is also a sensible business policy, because it means that we will then be created by the market for this artificial oil. And if the rapporteur can follow my assumption that in 2050 we will be doing so (Thank you very much). ) does not need fossil oil but artificial oil, does it not make sense to vote in favour of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111835	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111837	But we have an ambition, with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, that we should spend a lot of money on researching and developing it, pulling CO2 and that is to say, in 2050 we have to hope that we have found some of these systems. And if you burn oil in some production, you can just pull the CO2 out and store it in the underground. Then there is no problem with using natural oil, so that one should have to pay extra for artificial oil. So the only reason you had to do that was because if there was a ban, and I don't hear that the Left will come along.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111915	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111917	Thank you. When the rapporteur makes himself an overjudge over the red block and the blue block's motivation to vote for or against it here, I am glad that the alternative is the small green block. We would like to make legislation that restricts CO2 but I would like to hear from the rapporteur when he defends the continued picking up of oil and gas in the North Sea what the rapporteur thinks about the signal it is that only one company launched the eighth round of invitations to tender.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028111946	I'm not buying that thing with the alternative being its own block. The alternative is as often in agreement with the Enhedslisten, as the SF votes with the government, and since everyone knows that SF is a loggering lapdog for the government, we now also know that the alternative is a loggering lapdog for the Enhedslisten. Then, when you always vote with the reddest party in the Folketing, you cannot say that you are not red, because of course you are. Oil production will undoubtedly have less relevance in the future, fortunately, especially since we are in the process of a green conversion of passenger car transport and later also of heavy transport. Let us see what will come of the commandments, and then we shall see if the commandment that is coming is satisfactory. If the bids are not satisfactory, you could cancel at that time. However, I think it should be seen whether anyone believes that there is a business model in having Danish-produced oil, even after 2050, so that we do not have to use oil produced in Russia or the Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112043	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112045	It is clear that we must outperform Russian oil with green energy. However, I think that the rapporteur is a little like a dinosaur trying to maintain a business development, a business development that is dying of itself, and I really think that time and again I have seen it in this Things that the rapporteur's party defends business and business development, which in itself is going somewhere else entirely. Is it not a bit like business is much faster to adapt than the Liberal Alliance is?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112118	That is not what this is all about. It is about the fact that, contrary to the Alternative, we apparently find it difficult to understand the logic and reason that when we still have an oil consumption in Denmark after 2050, less today, but still have an oil consumption after 2050, so we must not produce that oil ourselves, but must buy it in Russia or in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112138	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112140	The Enhedslisten is such a green party that we are not part of the North Sea Agreement, and we regard the alternative as an independent party which is good to work with on an equal footing. When I look forward to 2050, I have a hope that there is some plant-based oil for my bike chain when I cycle around at 90-year-olds. I have a belief that there will be some who develop it for me over the next 30 years. So we are in a climate crisis. We need to get to the point where we phase out the fossil fuels and get to something that is climate neutral. When I listen to the rapporteur, it is as if the climate crisis has not yet come up with any mention of herbal crops. So we have something where the UN points out that we are heading for a temperature rise of 2.7 degrees unless we slow down our pollution. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Liberal Alliance believes that climate problems are man-made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112241	Yeah. But here we have an example of this fictional halo polish, so the polishing isn't fictional, but the gloria is fictional and is often used by Enhedslisten. Because this isn't about the green switch. No one in the Enhedslisten denies this because when we reduce oil production in Denmark by a factor of 100, oil production in other countries will be increased by a factor of 95, which is the Ministry's figure. Nobody denies that. Nor does anyone deny that in Denmark we will probably continue to need fossil oil after 2050, and that if it is not produced in Denmark, then it will be produced in Russia and the Middle East. So that is just the sort of thing to say: we are in favour of the green transition, you do not. Yes, we are in favour of the green transition, but this is not an effective step for the green transition. It's polishing a fictional halo.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112332	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112333	Now it is the case that when we have to take climate problems seriously, humanity cannot afford to use all the known oil and gas resources that have been discovered. That's kind of where we are. And so it is important that there are countries that take the lead and say: Yes, we stop oil and gas production. It can inspire other countries, for example. When we meet in Glasgow shortly, to take the same steps. Although it may seem to be economically uneconomic in the short term, that is what we need to do to save the planet. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112409	Well, I can see that other countries similar to us could be inspired by it. What I do not see is that Russia and countries in the Middle East are inspired by what we do in Denmark. On the contrary. In my lifetime we have drawn some drawings, they weren't inspired by that, they wanted to kill us. It is not countries that are close to us culturally and they do not feel that when Denmark does something, they should do the same in Russia or in the Middle East. So no, I don't think it has that effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112446	Then it's mr. Karsten Filsø, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112449	Thank you. The rapporteur speaks of gloriepudsning • Denmark's share of oil production is infinitely small, which is why we should not stop production. The same logic can be applied to various CO2 emissions. Is it only purely liberalism that drives the rapporteur? Is it liberalism that has to decide when the last drop of oil is to be extracted in the world? Does the rapporteur not recognise that players can be pressured to develop alternatives that may also develop into a good business, not just for the company, but also for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112537	After all, there were many questions, and perhaps I only have time to correct what was wrong in what Mr. Karsten Filsø says, that I should have argued that because Denmark stands for only 0.1%. of oil production, it doesn't matter what Denmark does. I have not said that at any time during this hour-long debate. What I am saying is that all Denmark does to reduce Denmark's production of oil results in other countries raising their production of oil, whether at a very small level we produce or at a very high level we produce, up to 95%. The reduction we are making is matched by a corresponding increase in production in other countries. That's what I've been saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112621	Sir. Karsten Filsø.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112624	Okay, but does the rapporteur then recognise that actors can be pressured to develop alternatives in many different fields here when putting in a barrier and forcing people to develop alternatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112644	Yes, if you force people to, but you don't do that by stopping the production of oil in Denmark when they can just buy the oil elsewhere. There's no compulsion in it. There is just the fact that oil on the world market does not come from Denmark. It instead comes a little more from Russia and the Middle East. There is no pressure to convert the production of products which are currently produced with oil into another product. There isn't. There is just the fact that you get your oil from other countries than from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112716	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028112725	Thank you. It seems to be a bit of a party day today, at least with the government and a few of the support parties, but this agreement does not give rise to a party in the alternative. In other words, we will not stand and pretend to be the great saviors when we shut down oil and gas production in 2050, which was still closing itself down, even a production which the energy society is in fact prolonging as far as 2050. This bill proposes the dismantling of Danish oil and gas production in the North Sea by the end of 2050 and, to put it mildly, it is not impressive in our eyes and in the eyes of climate science; we find it a little embarrassing. By 2050, the world must at least go into zero climate, and that is not even enough. All the indications are that huge steps must be taken to catch and bind CO2 When I read the comments of the bill, it is striking how much is involved in covering up financially, how much is involved in the concession agreements that we have promised the oil companies great profits that they must not lose. And that may surprise me, because when I look at the production data that everyone can find on the Danish Energy Agency's website, it is quite clear that there is nothing more to be done in the North Sea. Oil production peaked in 2004 and in 2020 was one fifth of that level. Gas production peaked in 2005 and in 2020 was one-eighth of its level. Waste water production per year The production unit increases explosively. State revenue stopped in 2008 and was in 2015 at a quarter of it. And both operating costs and investments in field construction are steadily increasing over the last 15 years. Most recently, with the previous North Sea agreement, extra funds have been spent in the Tyra field, which we probably never see in the Treasury again, because prices are far from the 100 US dollars per year. barrel and probably never gets up there again. With commercial eyes, then, oil and gas extraction in the North Sea looks like a closed chapter in a few years if it was not for the last few North Sea agreements. It is also striking that only one company wanted to bid for the concessions in the cancelled eighth invitation to tender. Against this background, the whole concern exercise in the bill will seem a little hollow. In 10-20 years' time in 2030, in 2040 it will probably be clear to everyone that there is no more business left in fossil reserves in the North Sea, and well the same thing, because the climate crisis offers us to leave the oil down there. Said popular: If you are in a hole in the North Sea, stop digging. But the tragic thing about this bill is that the other hand seeks to ensure the safety of companies wishing to continue their activities on oil and gas in the North Sea up to 2050. It may therefore work quite differently as a legal basis that extends the activities instead of stopping them and that, in our opinion, is quite wrong. Instead of a winding-up scheme, as proposed by the Alternative in 2017, based on scientific estimates that 80% of the population had been killed. of the then known reserves of coal, oil and gas should remain in the soil, so we would most likely see a phasing-out over 10-20 years, and that is simply not because there is no more oil and gas to come after, but because the costs will be too high, because the pollution from extraction is rising, because oil and gas prices never get to the high level again, because the Paris Agreement and the UN's global goals are causing more and more companies to dismantle their climate-damaging activities, and because investors are moving away from fossil activities, and because the popular pressure on climate-ecological behaviour will ultimately ensure this. On the other hand, there is one thing I would like to praise the government for when it comes to the rest of the world. There is one element in which this agreement has resulted, which I think is very, very fine, and it is an alliance which Denmark and Costa Rica have initiated. It is an alliance called BOGA, the Beyond Oil and Gas Alliance, and it is about making the whole world accelerate fossil phase-out plans globally. To that agreement Greenpeace says, and I quote: "We agree that the North Sea Agreement is inadequate, but BOGA is an example of how our point of praising and speaking this resolution must be seen in a wider global perspective: we desperately need the most resourceful and wealthy countries to send a strong signal to the outside world that we take the Paris Agreement seriously and respect climate science. We are therefore creating, together with Costa Rica, an alliance to ensure that more and more countries stop their oil production. Here again it is that Denmark multiplys its small effort by 100 or 1,000, and I understand that Greenpeace praises the Minister for Climate Change for this; we also do so by the Alternative. The question then is whether there should be a yes or no from us, and there may well be a small yes. In other words, we regret that the conciliation circle has supported production in the North Sea, for example. in the Tyra field, until 2050. That was not necessary, but we would like to help start the decommissioning of gas and oil production. We hope that this agreement will be a stop to oil and gas development in the North Sea by 2030, and our goal is that Denmark will be completely fossil-free by 2035. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028113239	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the alternative rapporteur. Now we are through the series of rapporteurs, at least those who would like to speak, and have reached the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028113250	Thank you. After all, it is not so rare to hear politicians who have made an agreement call it historic. It's almost more historic if someone doesn't call it historical. But joke aside, there is sometimes reason to use the big word. In fact, over the last two years in the climate field we have needed it a number of times, but I almost think I would say that the time when it has made the most sense, and where it has been the most in its right, was when we made the agreement on stops for oil and gas in the North Sea and to cancel the eighth round of invitations to tender and all future potential tendering rounds. It is a huge decision for Denmark. It has resonated in the world, it has been praised by green organisations globally and highlighted as a positive example, and it is now hopefully going to form school and inspire other countries to follow the same path. Denmark has been an oil producing country since the 1970s. I think the first field was called Dan. I do not know what to put in by symbolism, but it is certainly a fact that since the 1970s in Denmark we have earned many, many billions of dollars on oil and gas production. This has helped finance our welfare state and we have been an oil country. It is clear that the positive effects it has had deserve a place in our history, but it is equally clear that, of course, it also gives us a responsibility. For the burning of the oil we have consumed and sold to others has led to pollution of our atmosphere and has led us to be very responsible for the world's climate problems. Therefore, it is so amazing that we have now agreed to take the lead, and to those who may suggest that this was just a small, of course, decision, I just have to say that then you have a pretty bad memory. The discussion was tough. Many of those who today criticise the agreement for not being ambitious enough were out to demonstrate that we had to cancel the eighth round of invitations to tender, and then when we cancel the eighth round of invitations to tender, it suddenly sounds like it doesn't really matter. The fact is, it definitely matters. It was an expensive and necessary decision... animals understood in the sense that when you make this kind of decision, it is so that you have to count on what it is going to mean less in revenue for the Treasury, and when we set an end date and we do not make new calls for tenders, then it will mean less revenue in the Treasury, and that is about 13 billion. kr. So that's 13 billion. kr., we would have gotten into revenue if production had continued or if we had made a new tender round. This, of course, underlines that it is a real decline in oil production probably between 9 and 15%. between now and 2050, and after 2050 it's over. It is clear that when we in Denmark, which, when we took the decision in 2019, was the largest oil producing country in the European Union, we do so, it is of course noticed. And then it also shows that we mean it when we say that we want a green transition. We mean it when we say that we will actually be a pioneering country. I think it would be very bad for us to want to be a pioneer country and our desire to be CO2 but it was not straightforward. Previous agreements had already been authorized to continue until 2052, so we had to negotiate with a company whether it was possible to withdraw it. It was so lucky. I have heard rapporteurs say: is it not true that only one company offered? Yeah, that's right. Eventually there was 1 left, there were others who had withdrawn, but so, it doesn't matter if there were 1 or 10 or 20. If someone was going to drill and pull up the oil, they would have pulled up that oil. To those who ask whether it is not true that business models are getting worse, etc., I would say that, of course, I believe and hope that this will happen, but it will also depend very much on what political decisions are being taken, and here it is, among other things. very much to say what is happening globally, in relation to whether you are actually going to address the supply side of the problem of fossil fuels and not just the demand side. In Denmark, since the 1970s, in fact in our climate and environmental policy, we have addressed the demand side in the sense that through energy efficiency and through renewable energy we have made fossils less necessary. But it is not enough just to look at the demand side. The new thing is that you also look at the supply side. That is what others in the world have noticed, and that is why the Climate Council was right when they recommended us to do so. They wrote in their report that it is true that it is difficult to see a direct climate effect of this stop, for as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and others have also highlighted, it will be the case that when we stop producing oil in Denmark, the world market will adapt to it, and then part of it, not all, but part of it, will probably shift production to other countries. If it is a sensible idea to do so, then it is because political influence is, after all, about much more than that. Political influence is about some countries saying: we are stopping now, even if we could have made money from this by continuing. And: You can follow our example, you can see that we can actually do it in a way so that we still have jobs, and so we still have growth so that we do not become a poorer country. It will then lead me to say the last thing today before the questions or comments, namely that this is not, of course, just about making a decision in the Parliamentary Assembly. It is also a question of us then taking the consequences that result from it, namely that there will be people who are currently employed in this industry and who can see into a future where they can no longer have that job. We must take this seriously. The green transition should not lose anyone on the floor, which is why it is of course very, very important that we continue to support the development of Esbjerg and its surroundings, which will be hit hardest. So we think there are pretty bright perspectives in this. There are organizations that have figured out, and industry has figured out that every time we install 1 GW offshore wind turbine capacity, it creates just under 15,000 new jobs. If we take the jobs that are in the oil industry now, with accompanying jobs etc., it's probably about 4,000. So there will be a lot of people working in this industry today who can get new jobs just as good or perhaps even better in connection with the green transition. Another example of this is, of course, CCS. After all, there is something beautiful about some of the people who probably even work for the very same companies that used to stand and pull oil out of the underground, and burned it off, and got CO 2 2 That's our vision. Denmark must be a pioneering country, and we must bring others with us. We are going to promote this matter through an organization we have made together with Costa Rica, Beyond Oil & Gas Alliance. At the Glasgow Summit shortly we will present this alliance and also present a number of countries that have been able to join us already. In the long term, of course, it is intended and hoped that it will have a very great significance and a very wide spread. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114114	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114117	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge that a stop to oil production by 2050 is better than not taking a decision on it. I'm looking into how we can do this even better. After all, we have the latest knowledge in which the UN says that we are heading towards an average temperature increase of 2.7 degrees, and we will probably come to the conclusion that, compared to being climate neutral in Denmark, 2050 is too late. In other words, we have to do this earlier and we have to re-evaluate those plans. We will also re-evaluate our 70-percent target compared to 2030. I think there is something interesting about storage, ccs, out in the North Sea, and there has to be some supply around it. And if we were to be a little creative, we could not imagine a round of tenders where those who can deliver as much CO2 as possible, that is, if an oil platform stops producing oil or gas and instead uses that platform to store, i.e. ccs, it will be easier to win the supply. Can the Minister see any music in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114226	This is the first time I have heard that proposal. I'd like to chew on that, but let's take it with us. After all, we are negotiating in another room very close to that, among other things. Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen and I and other rapporteurs, about exactly the future of CCS. So I would very much like to hear more about that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114248	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114249	That sounds good. I also think that the ccs discussions so far have been good, because it was sketched out as if we were just going to make a tender, and now we are, in a sense, where a tender might well be something that would give the state an income. And I think it is interesting if you also unfold, to what extent and in what way you get CO2 then the Minister mentions that this stoppage of oil and gas produces less revenue of 13 billion. kr. But honestly, it's less than a mink case. Is it that big a sum when we're going to save the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114325	No, I think it's worth the money, but it's quite a lot of money. It is clear that this is a smaller amount than that, for example. would cost if you had to live up to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's own proposal to stop by 2030. That would probably take about 65 billion. kr. just in lost tax revenue alone plus they well, a blow to the bag, at least enough 100 billion. kr. in compensation in relation to the rules of expropriation which, of course, apply. There are 55 platforms, and they probably cost somewhere between 2 and 10 billion. kr. Each. So it is clear that in relation to the bill that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen will have printed out at least the good side of 100 billion. kr. kr. A small amount, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114406	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114409	I understand from the Minister's speech and the Ministry's figures, black and white, that the belief that you want to limit global CO2 but you do it for other reasons; you do it because you want to be a pioneer country. Is it the impression given by the Minister that Denmark is a pioneering country in large oil-producing countries such as Russia and the Middle Eastern despots? And if not, how will the Minister ensure that Denmark becomes a pioneer country in Russia and in the Middle East?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114452	Yes, we are a pioneering country, at least there are plenty of countries in the Middle East, including plenty of oil-producing countries that look at Danish renewable energy. So that way, yes. I do not think that is what the questioner is referring to. It is probably whether we are a pioneer country in terms of saying stop for oil. It's gonna turn out. After all, we are now a pioneer in the sense that we are the first country for the moment, with oil production of a certain size, which is now saying stop. In a very short time in Glasgow, together with my colleague from Costa Rica, I will present this new alliance where we will also present a number of other countries that have joined. Because it has to start somewhere, and it is a fact that we are actually going to become a smaller grouping of countries that are actually doing this, so saying that we had oil down there and we could have picked it up and made money on it, but we stop it because it is necessary to do so. If you do not believe that it can work and that it can have an effect, then you should never be a pioneer in any area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114556	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114558	When I look at Denmark's relations with Russia and the countries of the Middle East, I actually see the exact opposite. I see politicians as well as media talk about Denmark and report about Denmark in ways that are about: Ha, ha, see how stupid they are in Denmark • Let us do the exact opposite. That is the relationship I find that we have with the countries today; that there is a campaign against Denmark etc. And so you can also imagine that if we do this, they'll say, "Look how crazy they are, let's not do this."
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114638	I think there are many things you do in Denmark that you in Saudi Arabia must think are quite crazy, but that does not stop us from doing them anyway, if that is the right thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114648	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114650	Well, I would have liked to have been climate minister at the time when we stopped drilling for oil and gas in the North Sea. And I also think that there is reason to commend the Minister. The reason I may have a little difficulty with this is that I think the Minister takes a little more credit for it than the Minister should. Because we're in a situation where this borehole is becoming unusable. We are in a situation where those who bid withdraw one by one from the tendering round and there is only one left. So is it not the case that we can say that the North Sea business was getting worse and worse and that it meant that there was a gap, that there was an opportunity that the Minister and the parties have managed to take advantage of to put an end to this, but that things are a little connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114741	I think that's a rather strange logic. Well, first you push, and I think that Mr. Torsten Gejl was one of those who yelled at the very most that we should stop the eighth round of invitations to tender. And so we do, and not only do we do it; we go further than that. When people showed up on the street, it was in relation to the eighth round of invitations to tender. In fact, we go further than that, canceled also the Open Door scheme, made a stop date. When we do that, it is as if it should be neglected. Well, peace be with it if you don't want to be a drummer for this and how important it is. And if you want to neglect the decision, you have to do it yourself. But it is a decision that we have made openly and honestly because we believe it can make a big difference in the world. And we're not a government that spends 13 billion. kr. on anything, if we don't think it's working. So, of course, we think it's working. In fact, I also think that the alliance we have made with Costa Rica, which is now getting more countries, shows that it is actually useful and that people are actually listening to us. And I would also like to say that the alternative proposed by the Alternative to stop just around the corner will cost over 100 billion. kr. Do you have funding for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114848	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114850	This isn't about neglecting a deal. We are also pleased that this is a success now. It's about stopping greenwashing. Because I think you take credit for more than what comes to you when you say that when you take advantage of an opportunity that also comes from the fact that no one wants to bid, you're like the green savior. Well, that's where I'd like to put my foot down. That doesn't mean I don't respect a lot of good things in this deal, including... The BOGA cooperation, which Greenpeace also praises, and which we commend. And that is where I want to hear whether the Minister will also say that it was we who did it. Is there a few small things the Minister can tell you about?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028114930	Well, for the fact that there was only one company, I would say: excuse me, had the oil polluted less because only one had tendered in the tender round? I simply do not understand the argument. I mean, if oil was pulled up when it was only A.P. Møller, didn't it contaminate it because it was only one company? I think that is a very strange way of arguing. But let it go. In relation to the question of BOGA and whether it was us I am not quite sure that I understood the question so yes, it is our initiative, and of course we hope to get a lot of support.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115005	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115007	Thank you. I agree with the Minister that this is an historic agreement, although I also agree with the Minister that that word is often used a little too much. On the other hand, I am rather sorry that the Minister's speech focuses so much on dismantling, so that we now stop producing oil, that although there is really money in it, it makes sense to stop doing so. Shouldn't the Minister instead focus on the positive aspects of this agreement, that is to say that with this agreement we are now laying the very foundation stone for creating the green jobs, that all the jobs that are in South-West Jutland with skilled Danish Metal members, tens of thousands of jobs in the gas and oil industries, now have to be converted into green jobs, and that this is the very foundation of it, and that there is a need for them and hopefully many more?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115104	Yes, indeed. I also think that in my speech I did something to point out that there are quite good opportunities in the green transition for the people who are working today in the oil industry. I think that tens of thousands of people are just tightening it, I think that the figures are about 4,000, but let it be. There are very good opportunities, and I do not think that, when we look back on that decision in 10, 20 or 30 years, it will be a decision where you have to say that okay, it was perhaps the right thing for the climate, but it did hit hard in Esbjerg. I think you will say the opposite. I think it would be said that this was part of the expansion of Esbjerg and its surroundings as a power centre for green development in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115142	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115148	I'm glad. Because it should be the cornerstone of this agreement that we have created the green jobs. Then I hope that the Minister can also admit that it is so urgent that we get started with the creation of ccs, that we get ccs made possible so that it actually stays on the North Sea, we store CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115212	I certainly agree with that, and fortunately we also reached a broad agreement before the summer recess, which should ensure that the first regulatory barriers are swept away and thus that the first steps can be taken. We are engaged in other negotiations, which are the next step in relation to the roll-out of ccs in Denmark and the North Sea, and we hope that these will be completed, among others. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115238	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115258	The debate is open and the first to speak is the rapporteur from the Socialist Group, Mrs Birgitte Vind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115316	Thank you for the floor, President. Our democracy is based on free and informed elections, and anyone can, with support, start his own party. We can all vote for the party and for the person we want. What we choose to vote must not and must not be governed by anyone other than ourselves. This is something we sometimes take very easily for granted, but it is also something we must constantly safeguard. The free and enlightened choices are not a matter of course; that is something we must be careful of. And there have been new developments in the political landscape in recent years about how new parties have chosen to collect electoral declarations, and unfortunately there have also been examples of certain parties circumventing what we would call the general legal rules for collecting declarations. Parties are ready only once they have obtained the required support, and any attempt to cheat on this support is undemocratic. At the same time, however, there has been no impact on violations, and in order to protect democracy and free elections, a majority consisting of the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil, Liberal Alliance and the Alternative, in other words the parties to the vote of November 2020, found it necessary to impose an effective ban on the purchase of electoral declarations. With the adoption of the bill that we are to deal with today, a ban is introduced into the law on elections to the Folketing and the law on the election of Danish Members to the European Parliament against granting, promising or offering payment or any other asset advantage in order to influence someone, for example. to make or initiate a voter's declaration or not to initiate or make a voter's declaration or to influence anyone to withdraw a voter's declaration or not to withdraw a voter's declaration. If it should happen that there are people who try to circumvent the law, it will have consequences. With this bill, the offences of natural and legal persons can be punished by a fine or a prison sentence. In addition, parties seeking eligibility may also be excluded from continuing to collect electoral declarations. When the bill first saw the light of day, a number of people pointed out the injustice in that it is only for non-enabled parties that the law should apply. And thank you for that debate, because of course there must be consequences for everyone. It is therefore also gratifying that the current legislative proposal, L 25, is such that the eligible parties can also receive fines if democratic rules are violated. Finally, with this bill, we will also ensure that parties can change party names only through approval in the Election Board. In future, the Election Board may not approve a changed party name which is identical or may be confused with the name of a party on which the Election Board has decided. This is another assurance that voters will not be misled when they enter the ballot box. I believe that by L 25 we are defending free democratic elections, and of course the Social Democrats can vote in favour of the bill, but we are also looking forward to the continued debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115642	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115646	Thanks for the speech. We are in the Enhedslisten completely in agreement with the intention of this bill. There is just one point that the rapporteur also mentioned, namely the possibility of granting a sanction to those parties which do not comply with the rules here. It is true that there was an opportunity to impose a fine, but would it not in principle be more right, in the view of the Social Democrats, to say that it should be the same penalty, regardless of whether you are already eligible or not? The amount of bread is equal, so would it not be more reasonable simply to equate the two things completely so that the penalty would be the same, both in relation to the penalty and in relation to the exclusion from setting?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115730	Thank you for the question that I might have expected to receive as well. I would say this in this way that I find it very difficult to equate a standing party and a non-opportunity party, and if the penalty is given for trying to buy electoral declarations, trying to form a party, then it is difficult to equate the two things. However, I would very much like to continue the debate. I do not think that, on the basis of what we know now and what we have read so far and the experience we have so far, we can equate the two things. But we have a task in here, which is that we keep our noses in our tracks and are aware of whether things are going on fairly and properly and that, of course, we do not have legislation that screams to heaven. I am very confident about what we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115816	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115817	Yes, because it can be said that the task is to ensure that we do not give ourselves privileges that others do not have. It is true that there may be a difference in the severity of the sanction, but the bread is probably equal, whether you are eligible or not, and that is why it is reasonable that the sanction is the same. Because, regardless of whether you are eligible for registration or not, paying others in order not to support a party, the same offence committed, should, by its very nature, also be the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115851	The consequence should then be that a party entitled to stand for election, as I understand the rapporteur, should not have the opportunity to stand for election. It can be said that an established party has acquired a certain legitimacy in that it has been established for many years, whereas a new party may not have it. I understand perfectly well the reasoning, but I still believe that there is a difference and that we cannot compare the two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115915	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028115924	In fact, in a few weeks' time, there will be about 4.7 million Danes who have the opportunity to go to the ballot boxes and put their ticks. Many people around the world do not actually have the same democratic rights or opportunities that we have, and therefore it is also crucial that we constantly uphold that right here in Christiansborg and ensure that no one is actually destroying this democratic right. In recent years we have seen an example of a party trying to buy electoral declarations to run for election. It was in connection with the example that we also saw that there might be a gap in our legislation here, and that is what we are correcting with the draft law here today. In my view, it is contrary to our fundamental democratic considerations that we have parties in the Folketing which may try to destroy these rights that we have created over many, many years. Now I am not going to repeat the speech of the last rapporteur, but that is why we are now introducing a ban on granting, lawing or offering payment for electoral declarations for both the parliamentary elections and the European Parliament elections, as well as making signatures for municipal and regional elections. At the same time, the draft law provides that the Election Board should now approve it in the future when a registered party wishes to change its name. So there are a few gaps in the current legislation, and I think we will correct that with the change that comes with this bill. We come from the Left to back the bill here. It is, of course, the case that, prior to this, a joint vote has been reached between the parties of the Folketing, and that is what the bill translates into.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028120142	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Left rapporteur, so thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028120159	Thank you. The reason for this bill is that the founder of the Stram Course will pay for electoral declarations to the party. It is, of course, unacceptable to want to buy a seat, and it is therefore ensured with this bill that there is a sanction for doing so, which will also mean that the party's collection of electoral declarations will be stopped and that the party will not be able to set up. It was discussed whether the final model of the draft law is reasonable and logical when non-enabled parties will be prevented from setting up if they cheat by buying electoral declarations or paying for the withdrawal of electoral declarations and if already eligible parties are prevented from drawing up. For already eligible parties, of course, it is not a question of buying electoral declarations, because these parties do not have to do so, but in theory one can imagine a situation in which an established party pays someone to withdraw their electoral declarations. It is also a criminal offence in the agreement, but not with a sanction that the party cannot set up. I and the Danish People's Party can see that the legislation does not look right, because basically there must of course be equality before the law, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party would urge that we discuss a tightening up on this point in the committee's proceedings. At the same time, of course, we are in the Danish People's Party at the vote we have reached, so we are voting in favour of the proposed bill, but we would like to urge that we agree on further tightening so that everyone is equal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028120333	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, which is why the next rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party is Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028120357	Thank you, President. Our usual rapporteur could not be here, so I read Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk's speech: in our society virtually everyone has the opportunity to vote and stand for them. Parliament and the municipal council, but this should always be done in a sincere and honest manner. But at times individuals, perhaps because of desperation and greed, commit the unacceptable deed of paying for electoral declarations and submitting signatures. This should not happen, and if we are to ensure that democracy is always based on the individual and completely unaffected elections, we must put an end to that possibility. In other words, we must prevent the money from having too much influence on our democracy. It should therefore never be possible to pay for electoral declarations and signature. That's why SF obviously backs up on L 25. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028120456	Thank you for that, there are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Halime Oguz. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Christina Thorholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028120507	Thank you. L 25, draft law amending the Act on the Election of Parliament, the Act on the Election of Danish Members to the European Parliament and the Law on Municipal and Regional Elections. Or more popular: Prohibition of payment for electoral declarations and registrations, as well as requirements for approval of name change for eligible parties. We are often criticised for making pseudopolitics. This bill does not create pseudopolitics, but solves a problem, an unintended possibility in the legislation. We are pleased that the Minister has incorporated the comments on the draft law from the consultation period, so that it also deals with signing the municipal and regional elections, and so that the proposal does not only include parties but also candidates without parties. We believe that this bill supports democracy, so radicals support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028120607	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028120613	Thank you. I shall not tire of reviewing the bill, as others have done so well. I would just like to draw attention to some very fundamental aspects of this, and it is, of course, the case in a democracy that every person has a voice regardless of gender, skin colour, religion and income. That is why, of course, it should not be the case that one can buy oneself for additional electoral declarations or pay people to refrain from making electoral declarations. It's actually pretty simple. We must ensure that it is not cash flows that determine how democracy is being developed, but that it is only people's opinions. That's why we're gonna back up this bill. It's definitely a step in the right direction. However, we will also be tabling an amendment. Because it is true that some of the criticisms that have been made have been met by the fact that fines can now also be imposed on already eligible parties, but basically and in principle we believe that there should be a uniformity of the sanction in relation to the wrongdoing that is, to pay for people not submitting an electoral declaration. As it is now, there is a difference as to whether you are eligible or not. We really think this is unreasonable in principle, even because it can raise the whole discussion that when we make legislation in here, we grant ourselves privileges. I do not have the imagination to imagine that parties here in the Folketing, which respect democratic principles, will start to pay off that others do not fill in electoral declarations for another party. That is why I would also be quite confident that it is, of course, the same sanction that will be imposed on already eligible parties as it is on non-subscribing parties. However, we are going to support the draft law and, as I have said, we are going to table an amendment in the course of the committee procedure which will ensure a uniform penalty, regardless of whether you are eligible or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028120832	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028120835	Well, that's not because I'm completely out of my understanding of the desire for this equality. On the other hand, if you imagined that parties are a large organization, that there was a local section of the Enhedslisten out on Nørrebro, who paid or gave something good to people if they failed to sign a Vegan party electoral declaration, this party, i.e. Enhedslisten, who gets 7, 8, 9%. of the votes to the Folketing time and time again, so not have the opportunity to stand in the next parliamentary elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028120911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028120912	I think we should discuss the penalty framework, and whether it is a question of eligible parties or non-substitutional parties, the penalty must of course be the same for the same offence. So if the situation should arise that a local branch of the Liberal Alliance in Gentofte chose to pay people in order not to submit an electoral declaration for a competing party, then the sanction should, of course, be the same as the one we impose on other parties who are trying to be eligible for nomination. It is quite simply a question of egalitarianism, that is, that there is equality before the law and that the sanction that is being imposed must be the same. We can then discuss the extent to which that sanction should be, but from a democratic point of view the sanction should surely be the same when the bread is the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028120959	From Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121000	Well now the bread isn't quite the same when you pay someone to sign for themselves, or when you pay some for not I just think it would be a strange situation if we were to say goodbye to Enhedslisten in the Folketing, because there were some in Enhedslisten who came up with doing something really, really stupid. In many ways it would be nice, but nevertheless a little strange, because after all it is a party that has almost a tenth of the Danes' support. And I will go so far as to say that it was almost undemocratic if that was the consequence. So will Enhedslisten impose the sanction for parties sitting in the Folketing, or will Enhedslisten remove the sanction for parties not sitting in the Folketing? How is equality to be achieved according to Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121046	I think this is the greatest praise and recognition I have ever received as a member of the Danish Parliament for the Enhedslisten. Ole Birk Olesen, that it would be weird if we weren't here. So thank you for that and for that recognition. Well, we have said that with the agreement we have made here, which is, of course, about the fact that if a party should decide to pay a person for not submitting an electoral declaration, then the sanction is that one is not eligible for registration. And it is clear that, by its very nature, it will be the case that, when this is the sanction we have adopted, it will also apply to parties that are already eligible for registration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121123	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121125	Thank you. I can start by saying that I think this is difficult and it is a difficult debate, because I think there are two sides to this issue. Because I actually fully agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that we must ensure equality before the law. But I really do think, when I understand what the rapporteur says, that we are in fact risking that there will be no equality before the law if we introduce what the rapporteur wants. Isn't that right? There will not actually be a harder sanction for those parties that are already, for example, in the United Kingdom. is here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121200	Yes, of course, you can have that view. After all, I myself am of a generation that has been involved in collecting signatures for Enhedslisten to be eligible for registration, and it is clear that it is a huge task to do so. But there it is also basically the case that when you have collected the signatures, yes, you are eligible to be placed on the spot, and you are on a completely equal footing with all other parties, whether they are parties represented in the Folketing or they are something that has been through the process of collecting signatures. So from such a fundamental democratic point of view it must surely be the same sanction that must be imposed. That is to say, for a party which is collecting signatures and which may have collected 18 000 signatures and which is hit by it here, it is also an immensely harsh punishment to be struck by. Basically, I think that the punishment that we in this House decide should be able to strike at others should also be able to strike at ourselves. Because we fully agree that the bread itself, that is to say, paying others for either submitting electoral declarations or not doing so, is totally unacceptable. That is why I believe that this is the burden we must impose on ourselves that this punishment can also affect us ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121306	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121307	I can also reveal that I have been thinking carefully about this because I have simply been in doubt. Because I really like the fact that there must be a level playing field for everyone, that everyone must be equal before the law, as we say. But I still feel the opposite way in that I think that then we will, for example. as a party like the Left, which has been in the Folketing for many, many years, being hit harder now I can say that we could never dream of it, but if there should be someone in an electoral association that we were not in control of, who suddenly promised an amount, then it could worry me if we had to start all over again. It is in fact also to express my concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121353	Yes, but now I assume, if the thought situation arises, that there will also be an opportunity to be graduated, in relation to the degree of intent there has been, i.e. how much of the organization has done it. Otherwise, the rapporteur is right. I could also join the Left and then, as a Left Member, start paying people to stop making electoral declarations and thus ensure that the Left could not be eligible for seats. It is clear that we must avoid this kind of thing and ensure that there is no such type of inappropriateness. But this is also what we are doing for those parties that are collecting signatures that may have 18,000 signatures and that may risk this. And if we want to impose that penalty here, then we should also be able to say that we will do so in relation to ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121435	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121443	It is a beautiful day out there, and it is also a beautiful day for Danish democracy. It is so important that we ensure the free, democratic, informed elections, and we must safeguard that. We must take good care of our democracy. It is quite unacceptable to be able to buy electoral declarations. That is why, of course, the Conservative People's Party also supports the adoption of this bill, L 25, as the bill aims to punish people who buy themselves to be eligible in all kinds of elections. Secondly, L 25 ensures that criminal liability is imposed for infringements by legal persons against the current prohibition of systematic control of votes cast by voters. The Conservative People's Party further supports the fact that the electoral board has to approve the name change of eligible parties. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121546	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Birgitte Bergman. The next rapporteur, I see in the Chamber, is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121604	The Danish democratic system builds on the fact that one can be allowed to stand as party to democratic elections if there are a certain number of people who want to see this party set up for democratic elections. In it lies the intention that these people who want that party should do so because they think that politics in that party is a good contribution to the Danish people's government. That is what must be the motivation for wishing the party in elections. The motive should not be to give your signature for the party to be able to place, because you can make some money from it. Then we abandon what is meant by the democratic way in which we stand, namely that it is the desire to see itself represented by a party with certain positions. I would even say that I sometimes experience people who say about a new party: No, I am not there, but I do sign, because I think that all parties should have the opportunity to put up. Actually, that's not the point. You only have to sign for a party to stand up if you want to be able to vote for that party with a certain probability, because the party stands for something you stand for. The thing about saying that you will certainly vote on the Enhedslisten, but you also think that the Free Greens should have the opportunity to stand, so you sign for them, I do not really think that is the right approach to it. But, of course, we cannot regulate that. People have to do what they want. Here we care about something else, and that's if you get paid to sign it. This bill forbids us to do so, and I am in favour of it. Then the question is what to do if there are some sitting parties that want to offer people money to withdraw their signature. Should they then be punished in the same way that they cannot be allowed to stand in the forthcoming elections that we are giving with this bill to parties that have not yet sat in the Folketing or elsewhere? I think it's too drastic a punishment. I imagine this situation where there are people out there locally in the parties that are not necessarily controlled by the national organisation or by the parliamentary group, and that can do things and things out there. Such crazy people do exist, and some of them are party members. It would be a matter of democratic concern if a party that had the support of so many voters that it sits in the Folketing and also continues to have such strong support that it could enter at the next elections was not given the opportunity to establish because there is someone in the party who has violated these rules. So I agree with the rapporteur of the Left who said in one question that it seems a disproportionate punishment for a sitting party. That's why we can't go that way. We're voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028121924	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Normally it is the practice that if you come too late in the series of rapporteurs, you come at the bottom of the series of rapporteurs. But the rapporteurs have been so kind that it is now Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028122004	Thank you so much. The signal from Parliament's TV is a little late, and I have a hearing at the same time, and it's a little hard to be in two places at once, but I ran all the way. I would just like to say, as I have said before, that in this area we are in favour of the parties which are not eligible and those which are eligible, who sit in the Folketing, being as equal as possible. That is why we will be looking forward to addressing this here in committee and looking at how we can do this in the best possible way. That's just what I'm gonna say about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028122038	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. Then it is the rapporteur of the Christian Democrats, Mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028122053	As I usually say, and thus I repeat myself anyway, there is nothing more right to be repeated. That was a contradiction. A lot of right things have been said about this bill, and of course we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028122109	Thank you for that, sir. Jens Rohde. Then we are through the rapporteur's line and have reached the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028122120	Thank you for that and thank you for your reception and for the debate that has taken place in this Chamber. After all, the bill here must ensure that people and parties participating have real support among the electorate and that rules on party names can be enforced for eligible parties, and that it is possible to prosecute parties or other organisations that illegally control the issuance of votes. The bill started in November 2020 with a broad agreement between all the parties of the Folketing at that time. Now it has become a legislative proposal that closes a number of gaps in electoral law and thus protects the democratic spirit in all kinds of elections. This is a matter of due diligence and I welcome the kind treatment it has met. And then I would just like to make a few comments about the debate that has been going on in this Chamber today about whether parties are being put on an equal footing. I think it is first of all important to say that it is perhaps particularly important to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that there are three types of parties to be distinguished: parties which are eligible and are represented in the Danish Parliament, and it is a large part of us who sit in this Chamber today; parties which are eligible but are not represented in the Danish Parliament, and it could, for example, be the Vegan Party; parties which are not eligible but which collect electoral declarations. When you commit a crime involving the collection of electoral declarations, either by buying a voter's declaration from a citizen or by trying to buy oneself to prevent a citizen from making a voter's declaration, it has to do with the process of collecting electoral declarations. The penalty is the same for all three parties. The penalty is that we can no longer collect electoral declarations, but because the group of parties that we represent, where we have been appointed and elected to the Folketing, and the group of parties which have not been elected to the Folketing, but which have been set up, do not collect electoral declarations, it is not a particularly severe penalty for them, but the penalty is in principle the same. There we are left at Anatole France, which says that the law forbids everyone to sleep under the Seine's bridges. We disagree with that law. We agree that this is a problem for everyone. Neither the poor nor the rich shall sleep under the bridges of the Seine, but the rich have a place to live, and the poor have not all. That is why the law is wrong, because we are aware that the law that applies to equals punishes equals by the fact that everyone is no longer allowed to collect electoral declarations. But, of course, there is a difference between the need to collect electoral declarations according to whether you are eligible or not. Then we have said: okay, then it must be a fine or a prison for up to 4 months in cases where you, as a registered or elected party, are still criminal against this legislation. Now we are just to put it a bit out on the theoretical exaggeration, that is, we imagine here that there is one of the parties represented in the Folketing, or a party that is eligible for appointment to the Folketing but was not represented in the Folketing, who by paying people money goes in and prevents an electoral declaration from being made. It may well have happened. I've never heard of it, but it may well have happened. Now we take account of the fact that it may happen that a member of my own party or one of the parties represented here, or one of the parties which does not sit in the Folketing but which is eligible for membership, would have to go in and pay some people to stop supporting a party that is collecting electoral declarations. Now we have made sure that there is also a punishment for them. But to say it's odd isn't right. There is the same penalty, regardless of whether you are entitled to stand for election and sit in the Folketing or whether you are not entitled to stand for election. The penalty is not to collect electoral declarations. But, of course, there is a difference. There is also a difference in the penalty if you drive 110 km/h. inside a city, whether you have a driver's license or don't have a driver's license. Well, that's self-evident. But you can't get a clip on your driver's license if you don't have one. In the same way, there is also a difference here. However, we believe that the solution we have found is proportional, so that as a party you get a fine which, of course, has an economic consequence. In addition, there is also what several rapporteurs have also noted in the debate on the draft law in the press, namely that if you imagine that my party or another party is going to work on a larger scale to prevent another party from being put up, it will of course mean that there will be a very violent reaction, because these are not the methods we are using in Denmark. We never have, and hopefully never will. So there is both an economic sanction and, ultimately, a prison sentence, but there is also, of course, the democratic sanction and the outcry that I would expect there to come if we saw that the Social Democrats tried on a large scale to prevent the Free Greens or others from being placed in parliament. That would be completely outside the democratic tradition we have. I actually believe that most of us here will agree with that. So it was just a few comments on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028122642	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028122646	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. It is true that it is hypotheses that we are discussing, and that is why the substance of this discussion is not so much a question of internship, because to me it would also be completely unlikely that a party sitting in the Folketing would systematically start paying people to refrain from making electoral declarations. But that also means that it will then be a fundamental discussion about how we deal with this. And there is a challenge in this, because although the Minister says that the penalty will be the same for everyone, it is not quite so, because it is not the same sanction that is being imposed. A party that sits in the Folketing will be fined or sentenced to prison, and then it is true that the electorate's judgment will hopefully be harsh, but it will not be the same sanction as it will be for a party that is not eligible yet, because then they do not have the opportunity to take part in the next parliamentary elections. That's why there's a difference. So, in principle, there is the point that it is also a question of whether we do not give ourselves privileges, in other words that the rules we adopt in here do not have the same consequence for us as they do for others. Does the Minister not agree that there is a dilemma with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028122800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028122801	Yes, I think it is important that we constantly ensure that we do not give ourselves privileges, but a privilege only works in such a way that it provides an advantage. A privilege which does not give any special positions is an empty privilege; and a privilege which is about preventing something that, as far as I know, has never happened and which we find very difficult to imagine is going to happen, I do not think exists. I believe that in order for a privilege to be called a privilege, it must be possible to identify certain situations in which the privilege has conferred an advantage on the user. If it hasn't done it, then it doesn't exist. That is where I think we are on a theoretical issue here, but we would of course like to respond to the criticism that the law is hitting differently. If one imagines that Enhedslisten is banned from collecting electoral declarations, one can say that it is probably not so much a punishment, and therefore we say that there must therefore be an extra penalty that has been tightened up for, for example, Enhedslisten, and that is the balance that we have tried to strike here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028122900	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028122901	It is absolutely true that there is also a penalty in relation to the fine and the prison, and the hardest punishment will probably and hopefully be the electorate's judgment. But it is just to point out that this is a fundamental discussion, in relation to what kind of signal we send, both to ourselves, but also to the people and to the other parties. And there has been a tendency for us to have made it harder and harder to get on the ground, and that is why we just think it is crucial that, when we then make this kind of regulation which we think is perfectly reasonable and which we are therefore voting for, we also ensure that the severe sanction we impose also has the possibility of hitting ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028122942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028122943	Well, I totally agree with that, and I think we do that with the fine. And I'll give Mr. Peder Hvelplund and Enhedslisten the absolutely clear guarantee that if we see that fines are starting to be imposed on the basis of this relationship in the democratic process, then I shall be the first to say that I am ready to tighten up the consequences. I don't think that's gonna happen, but if that's what's gonna happen, then I promise I'll be the first to make sure that we tighten the penalties, which Enhedslisten isn't something that Enhedslisten is usually in favour of, but then in this case it is anyway. I'd like to give you that guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028123017	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Home Affairs and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028123032	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Henrik Møller of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028123110	Thank you. After all, there are some who say that patience is a virtue, and if it is true, one must say that here we have gone down the not narrow path of virtue, but very broad path. For it is the case with the legislative proposals that are here that, in itself, we are implementing the second phase of the lease agreement of 2014, and this is a technical merger of rental legislation. The aim is to create a better overview and, of course, to simplify the legislation that has been in place. In the Social Democratic Party we are pleased that we can now finally bring about the final part of the settlement from 2014. Because we are convinced that it will benefit those organisations, companies and others who are dealing with the rental legislation every day. The settlement was then concluded with the then government, the Social Democracy and Radicals, as well as the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Enhedslisten, and the aim was to ensure simplification and modernisation of the rental legislation. The settlement includes a two-stage process, in which the first phase was completed in 2015, i.e. six years or almost seven years ago, while it is now proposed to implement the second phase, and this is, as I said, a technical merger of rental legislation. There is, however, an element that is being proposed to strengthen the rights of subletters, and here we are typically talking about young people in su who rent a room for a limited period of time, and that is because we have seen some examples of these young people being cheated of very large sums of money that they do not get reimbursed from their deposit, despite the fact that they have, of course, been entitled to recover it. These are therefore some who are subletting and who are speculating on exploiting the fragile housing situation of these young people, and of course we will not overlook this. In the Social Democratic Party, we support the three legislative proposals that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028123323	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Here you go, Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028123338	Thank you. The Left wants legislation that is acceptable, regardless of the number of people and businesses it regulates. It must be available, and it must be applicable, and in 2014 we entered into a settlement on the rental law with the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten, because the rental law had become too complex, a bit of a mishmash over time with a background in an almost innumerable number of changes, adjustments and additions. So when we entered into the agreement in 2014 on modernisation and simplification, the goal was to reduce complexity, but not to upset the overall balance that exists in the rental law, both the legal and the financial between tenants and landlords. The industry demanded it itself, and the settlement involved two phases. Phase 1 was a modernisation which, among other things, was: was intended to protect the tenants from unreasonable financial costs by the removal of the land and to ensure administrative relief for the landlords. This was done through the introduction of compulsory immigration and removal and normal rehabilitation by relocation, by simplifying and modernising the maintenance rules, by simplifying and modernising the rules on early warning of cost-related rent increases and the competences of the resident representation. Stronger sanctions were introduced for breaching the warranty rules and cheaper access to the pre-approval of the rent for landlords of individual owner- and cooperative homes, as well as new options from net price index regulation of the rent. Finally, landlords of an owner's and cooperative residence were given access to terminate tenants with one year's notice if the landlord himself had to use the dwelling. Phase 2 was the combination, and we now have a piece of legislation that is combined and, hopefully, clearer, although it will be quite simple with its many pages of legislative text never, but with a structure that makes more sense, and at the same time we were addressed to the subletters whose rights are guaranteed, among other things. by providing for termination of leases to tenants who repeatedly default on their obligations to a subletterters and by imposing penalties on tenants who do not repay any excess deposit and prepaid rent to a subletter at the end of the subletter. In a few moments, we will be dealing with the committee procedure, and I look forward to it, because I have the expectation that implementation will be optimised so that it does not require unnecessary costs from the users of the legislation. And what does it take to ensure that the users of the law do not leave the landlords and tenants here? Firstly, implementation must be organised. What is the Minister's view of the entry into force on 1 January, as proposed? This is a very short time, as several stakeholders have pointed out. In other words, implementation requires preparation. There are, for example: need a translation key of existing regulation for the new one as pointed out by House Lawyers, which may be needed for the approximation of concepts and forms as pointed out by the House Lawyers Association, which is an important economy for users in a well-organised implementation. In relation to the economy, we should look into the economy of the rent boards, because transparency in the rental boards, which is part of the 2014 settlement, is also a predictability in relation to time. And time is money... I don't think most people can disagree with it... and if you want to spend time on new tasks, it costs money, unless there are other tasks that are removed or made more flexible. With this proposal, the housing boards have been given an additional task in order to ensure the legal position of the subletters. In the past, the Left has proposed that the rent boards should have provided considerable resources, because the processing period is already far too long and uneven. The Minister refuses to do so, even though the well-functioning rent board, which ensures tenants and landlords, makes you as tenants dare complain. Predictability also requires impartiality, and here the Left believes that we can do better. We want independent rental boards for legal certainty for both tenants and landlords. It should not mean anything to the outcome of a case in a rent board where you live in the country. As we see it, the rental boards are a central part of the solution to ensure a better framework for the proper private landlords and tenants and to ensure a healthy private rental mass. I know that there is work to be done on the composition of the office, that it has been extensive and that it has been time-consuming, and normally at this stage, after a negotiation process, I would like to commend the Minister for a good course of negotiations. Unfortunately, however, we in the Left have had an experience of a process of negotiation which has neither been respectful nor dignified by the Minister and by the government. The negotiation process has been unnecessarily long and unspoken, we ended up with two rounds of hearings and an expert hearing led by the Left, yes, forced through by the Left, one can say calmly, and the consequence of the Left's pressure is that the balance agreed in 2014. Because we have to make an effort when legislation that affects so many Danes needs to be put in place, but, to put it plainly, the negotiation process was not in order. At the same time, we could have gone further, and there is certainly more that we could have tackled and perhaps got to grips with, something that is outside the framework of the settlement, but which could have brought about improvements in a weighting, as both tenants and landlords demand. It is a pity that we did not get any further, and here the minster bears a great responsibility, and I hope the Minister has learned from that. Because we are the longest when we find common solutions. I actually think it is the majority of Danes who want and expect of us. With these words, I look forward to a committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028124004	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028124007	I have also participated in the process, and I think that if the Left had sometimes appeared with fewer politicians, perhaps there would have been some things that could have gone faster, better and smoother. After all, we need to land something where there should be a balance between tenants and landlords. Now that it is planned that the small houses can get a higher rent, it may be 88,000 dwellings, maybe if this bill is adopted, it means rent increases of 2 billion. kr. a year, which is a bad thing for the tenants. So I would really like to hear whether the rapporteur can see that there is no balance in the changes being made in relation to the pluses for the tenants and pluses for the landlords, i.e. that we have here a huge lump of bias which should, in general, lead to this bill not being adopted in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028124115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028124116	Well, you can go in and grab a few elements, and I also still get away with inquiries about individual elements. What has been central to the Left here is that overall there has been a balance, because that was what was agreed between the conciliation parties in 2014. So that is what we have put the emphasis on. Then there may well be areas where one can say: there is a shift in the balance one way or another, but overall the balance must be there, and that is what we also received during the expert hearing there were some fairly clear statements compared to those from the various interest groups here who represented both tenants, landlords and rent boards. So from the feedback we've got, I don't think any of us should tell us that we've landed something that's perfect. But the balance has been found that allows you to move on with this aggregation, and we have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028124214	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028124216	Well, I'm gonna hold on to the fact that this little house thing is a disadvantage to the tenants. Then I would really like to hear: what are the elements of the bill that are drawbacks to landlords and that can, like, compensate for this, so we have that balance that was addressed right from the start of the agreement? Because it is true that it was, and it is also true that one element cannot determine everything, because there must be an overall balance. What are the downsides that landlords have got through this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028124248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028124249	But it's just a tricky question from the Enhedslisten, and it's all about going in and like wanting to spell out one thing, and I might as well just say: you can't do that; you have to look at this together. After all, this is a huge legal complex, and when you choose the approach that Enhedslisten does, it's that you can't get to grips with anything when you sit around and have to discuss these things and go into negotiations about it. I must also acknowledge that the Minister was challenged because it seemed that there were parties, among others. The Enhedslisten, which was not ready at all to move on to key points in the negotiations we had and which could have just led us to perhaps find some places where we could have helped the tenants and the landlords to some better solutions overall.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028124333	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Heidi Bank. And the next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028124344	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party, like the other parties, can join at the third reading. We're happy to be in the deal. I would also like to thank the previous rapporteurs for their excellent and detailed presentation of this comprehensive legal complex. I will not go into the details of the three legislative proposals in detail, but perhaps just say a few words about the process itself, as the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Heidi Bank, said. In other words, we can all have different experiences of the process itself, but I really think it is an advantage that one disagrees because, in disagreements, views and text of agreement are often tightened up, and I actually think it was a good process it ended up with. And I would like to thank Mrs Heidi Bank for pushing for a hearing and an expert opinion. We supported this in the Danish People's Party, because we also needed to see if the balance was really maintained in the consolidation of the four laws into two laws. After all, the hearing showed quite clearly that the parties to the hearing were far from agreeing, but they did not so disagree. So my conclusion to the hearing was that the official apparatus had actually hit quite well in the compilation itself. Of course, there were some points on which the tenants' parties and the landlords' parties disagreed and on which they were not entirely satisfied. But overall, I actually think that aggregation has been good. Then we also received a separate assessment of a professor who was an expert in the rental law, and I was very impressed by his detailed knowledge of this comprehensive legal complex. And he actually concluded that one had hit the disc quite well. We actually think so ourselves in the Danish People's Party, without making me an expert in relation to these more than 500 pages, because that's what it is. It's about something of the most important thing in your life, namely a home. I do not know whether to scold the Minister or whether to scold the parties to the agreement for this purpose. I'm actually glad we got a long run. There was a little fight in the contract circle. I think that's actually fine. I like these open fights where you fight for your views. My experience is that this ultimately leads to good agreements. And then you might think that it was perhaps the Minister who was a little foot-timing, or you might think that the Left was a little too aggressive, but I really thought it was a good thing that the Minister was foot-timing and that the Left rapporteur was aggressive, because it ended up with a good hearing and the involvement of a professor who was an expert and, ultimately, a good agreement not just for us, but for the tenants and for all the people who need to use the law in the future. It has been modernised, and it has now been simplified, so there are two major legal complexes to which we must relate. That does not mean that we will not be able to make it simpler in the future. I do not know whether the Minister dares to go into it until it is quite a task to embark on, but one can then consider that I know the Minister is busy with many other things at these times. In addition, of course, there are those small changes in addition to simplification and aggregation, which are what other rapporteurs have also mentioned, i.e. the subletting rules. And again it is here both the landlords and the tenants who have been taken care of, because what is sometimes forgotten is that there are both people who rent and people who rent the land that abuse the law. We must never forget that, and that is why the law exists for both sides, and that is why there must be that balance so that one side cannot exploit the other. So, in the Danish People's Party, we are happy that there are landlords who want to invest their private money in making homes available, and the vast majority of landlords are decent people, and then there are a few stumbled vessels that exploit the situation and exploit the law. And the vast majority of tenants are good and decent people, and then there are a few who take advantage of the law and fail to fulfil their obligations. And that is where we just have to make sure that there are some tools available so that both tenants and landlords are secure. That brings me to Mrs Heidi Bank's words about the rent boards, which are of course an important matter. I fully agree with the view of the Left that there must be a fairly uniform procedure in the rent boards across the country, and I know that the Ministry and the Minister are also looking at that, and we look forward to us being called to a meeting so that we can discuss it. So thank you to the Left for having the hand on the hot plate also at this point. The Danish People's Party votes for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028124940	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028124949	Thank you, President. When we agreed in 2014 to the conciliation to combine the rent law and the housing regulation law, it was because we wanted more simple legislation. The rental legislation had become complicated and needed a revision, and we in the SF would like to take part in this. The government then presents these new legislative proposals today, which are trying to achieve this objective. First, we have the law on rentals, which contains only rules relating to direct rentals. This means that, unlike today, the tenants and the landlords can only orient themselves in one law. That's good. Secondly, we have the law on housing, which has the character of a law of public law, such as: governs the obligation of residence, the activities of the rent boards, compulsory administration and a number of other matters of public law. This structure is logical and creates a better overview of the rental legislation, which we in the SF are in favour of, but we do not agree with the government that this aggregation is purely technical, as we see a clear shift in favour of the landlord when it comes to the rental of small houses. Potentially, as my colleague Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen also mentioned, it can cause the rent to rise in about 88,000 homes throughout Denmark, because if you open up that the rent in small houses can be compared to the rentals in large houses set after 5.2, you will initiate a rental spiral in the cities and in the country's smaller cities. LLO, Denmark's Owners' Associations and Danske Lejre have all pointed out that the implementation of the law on rental will be disastrous for the tenants in the small houses, because in addition to the tenants' risk of paying significantly higher rents, the tenants of the smaller properties are not entitled to be offered a replacement residence at large rents, which you have in large properties. So the tenants in the small houses are very much losing their protection, and we in the SF are very unaware that a social democratic government that wants mixed cities with space for everyone will not provide a reasonable rent in the small houses. It is going to go beyond the single mother who lives for rent in a small property in Nibe, for example, and the young educator in Copenhagen, who already cannot afford to live in the city. And then the law on rent is also a breach of the settlement that we entered into back in 2014. Here it was made clear that the legal and economic balance between the landlord and tenant should not be upset. That is why, together with Enhedslisten, the SF has written down some specific amendments designed to ensure that the comments adequately reflect the applicable law. In this respect, it is important to mention that the amendments suggest that the statutory notes should not be passed on to the landlords or tenants. We will leave this issue to the courts. In addition to the question of small houses, the law on rent also lacks to clarify that the concept of refurbishing has actually been abolished. We, as conciliation parties, agreed to abolish the new rehabilitation in 2015, and this should be made clear by the law. That is why we are also tabling amendments to this part. Against this background, I can inform you that the SF can only support this bill if the legislative notes are clarified so that they do not open up that all small houses in Denmark can now be set according to the value of the rented property. The specific amendments will be sent to the conciliation board and the government after this first reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028125342	Thank you for that to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue with the rapporteur on the Radical Left. Mrs. Susan Kronborg, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028125353	Thank you for the floor, President. As several speakers have mentioned here today, an agreement was reached on 11 June 2014 between the then government, the Social Democrats and the Radical Left, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Enhedslisten on simplifying and modernising the rental law. This means that today we have a compilation, that is to say. that you have the lease law, where you have left the rules governing the relationship between the tenant and the landlord, so the rules of the interpartes are placed in the lease law, and that you have then made a new law, which is called the housing law, and which covers other areas which do not directly concern the interparte's relationship. This is among other things. regulation of the obligation of residence, the activities of the rent board and compulsory management. This new law on housing has also incorporated the rules into the law on municipal authorising law. In addition, legal certainty is proposed for tenants of rooms and subletters strengthened by the bill. This then means that you look at the amount of the prepaid rent and that it is limited so that it cannot exceed the amount corresponding to the length of the notice of termination. That part is extremely excited by the Radical Left, which reduces the risk of fighting to get a deposit back because of self-found set-off claims. As mentioned above, in L 48, the law on housing is based on the rules of public law. In L 49, there is an impact on L 47 and L 48, which have just been mentioned, and in L 49, there is also the introduction of a notice of termination for landlords vis-à-vis general tenants who repeatedly default on their obligations as subletters to a subletter. In fact, cases have been observed where a sublether has repeatedly failed to repay deposits, so that part too is radical very pleased with. In those words, we look forward to the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028125703	Those are no more brief remarks. Thank you to Mrs Susan Kronborg. We move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028125722	The starting point for this is, of course, our 2014 settlement which clarifies what balance it is that should be in the legislative proposal that is being presented today. And it says very precisely: the conciliation parties are agreed on this basis to implement overall simplification and modernisation of rental legislation. In this context, it is an important consideration that the legal and economic balance between landlords and tenants is not upset. And that's what this combination has to be measured against. It is then further clarified: the parties also agree that no substantial simplifications can be carried out if individual proposals which are of the greatest interest to either tenants or landlords are disregarded in advance. The parties therefore agree that the balance between tenants and landlords should not be maintained in the individual sub-proposals but in the overall legislative proposal. And that is, in fact, fair enough, because there may be one element which is most beneficial to one side, and then one has to look at the whole. This is the whole thing we have dealt with in this debate, and I think this could have been better. Well, we should have come up with more problems. I think it is a disadvantage that we have not arrived at securing more energy renovations in the private rental stock. We have not achieved that goal, and I think that is really a pity when we are in a climate crisis, and when we have a rental system that is in a way that it is difficult for a landlord to make sensible energy renovations, because it is difficult to get the money home. So we've ended up in a system where we don't have the best rules to secure energy renovations. And there is where it can be said that the negotiations did not succeed, and it is always a shame when something fails. After all, we were also in the situation that at one point the Minister concluded that he was going to send a bill to the Chamber. And that is what we are dealing with today. When I look at this legal and economic balance that needs to be between both landlords and tenants, it's a very important and big problem that there is now the prospect that rents could potentially increase in 88,000 homes. And it has been calculated by rental organisations that it can be a rent increase of 2 billion. kr. annual. Then you can say: yes, but you could accept that if it were the case that at the same time you saw some clear improvements elsewhere in the legislative package. And that's what I can't see lifted up. Here you are, like with a single package, where I can see that this hits awkward; it hits the tenants. And as a unit list representative, I take more account of the tenants than of the landlords. Then there are other parties that may have a different priority. But I am here in Parliament to represent more tenants than landlords. And when I have to deal with whether we in the Enhedslisten can agree to this combination, then it has to be that balance, and I don't think it's there at this time of year. And that is why it is necessary to obtain a majority in favour of some amendments in committee before the Enhedslisten can vote in favour of this merger. Then there are some who will think: Aren't you just obliged to vote in favour of a merger? No; we have, of course, been involved in an agreement in which we have ordered a merger which must have a legal and economic balance. And that is not what we think has been achieved. I think it was an interesting expert hearing that we had on the Home and Housing Committee. After all, there were also landlords who could see disadvantages in what was the contours. There were, in fact, more critical voices than I had actually imagined, and it was not the case that that expert hearing made it very easy to say that we have now clarified that it is a good combination we have. I could not draw that conclusion, and when you then have the LEO of the tenants, as they conclude, they say that they do not think we should vote in favour of this merger, and when we have the Danish Owners' Association, which also recommends that we do not vote in favour of it as it is now, then the matter for me is quite simple, namely that it is a matter of fighting for some amendments to obtain a majority through a committee procedure, and then we will deal with it. I think that balance is important and I think it has gone.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130242	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130244	Yeah, thanks for that. Now Enhedslisten mentions energy renovations, and I think that we know very well that it matters how much energy we use in our houses and in our lives at all. But some of what I'm also worried about, and which I actually thought Enhedslisten was also worried about, are the rent increases it can give for the country's tenants if you make rules here, where you can just fill in to make these energy renovations. So I hear it a little like a switch from Enhedslisten, i.e. a willingness that it should be possible to refurbished energy to a much greater extent and in this way place the cost on the tenants. I think I just need clarification on that, because it is at least a little contrary to what else I hear from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130335	No, I don't think there's that much new in it. I can easily see that we can make sensible energy renovations which result in a slightly higher rent and, on the other hand, lower costs of energy, water or electricity. In view of that balance, I find it a pity that we have not come to outline how it can be implemented without it being too much a burden for the present tenants. I think that's too bad. It may well be possible to achieve a different financing or similar financing, but I do not think that we have reached the goal of having rules that make private landlords find it attractive enough to refurbished their homes. I simply note that I do not think the rules are good enough, and it might well be that in that room, with a large part of the parliamentary parties, we could have found a solution there. But it did not succeed, and that is just where I find out what to say, that it was a pity that we did not achieve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130439	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130440	I agree with that, and I myself have had a problem with that. I believe that there are a large number of points where we could have gone further if the process had been different. But I have to ask again: is it to be understood that Enhedslisten thinks it is okay that there is a rent increase for the tenants? And now I hear it as if it's only if they get similar relief on their heating bills. This isn't necessarily one for one. So I just need to know just where the interface is at Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130510-2	Well, a sensible energy renovation means, of course, that the energy costs and the costs of electricity are reduced, and it can also be for water. And if it is a sensible energy renovation, it should be the case that it does not just make the building worth more, but in such a way leads to an operation in which the investment corresponds to the saving that the tenants achieve. So it's not that difficult, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130546	The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130550	It is extremely unusual for an agreement to be reached, the bill to be sent before it enters the Parliamentary Chamber, and when the bill comes down to the Chamber, it is announced, and it is both the Enhedslisten and the SF that you have some amendments and that you cannot vote in favour of the bill unless these amendments come through, such as the SF among others. said it. Should I understand that if the conciliation circle does not accept the amendments tabled today by the Enhedslisten and the SF, then one will resign from the conciliation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130636	So what the old deal is doing is ordering a merger. It has then been made and it has been in consultation and there have been negotiations and they could have been different. At some point the Minister then chooses to send that bill down to the Chamber, and so it is not the conciliation circle that decides that it is the Parliamentary Chamber which has to deal with three legislative proposals. After all, the parties that are not part of the conciliation have the right to vote in this Chamber. It is, in effect, left to the Parliamentary Chamber. It's a concoction that's been ordered. I recognise that it is a merger, but the balance in the merger does not seem reasonable to us when we look at the legal and economic balance between tenants and landlords. We think it's crooked, so it's a disadvantage for the tenants. That is why we say very clearly, as the SF also does, that changes need to be made so that we can vote for this. So I don't think it's that complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130738	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130739	That's a clear speech. The Enhedslisten will have changes in order to vote in favour. If the Enhedslisten does not have these changes, will one resign from the conciliation and thus leave the contract circle, which would be the logical consequence of Enhedslisten's point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130800	But we do not step out of the conciliation circle, because it can be said: when has this conciliation ended, because what has been agreed has been achieved? Well, agreements aren't endless. You get to a time when you're done dealing with it. This is also happening in the field of energy. The energy agreement of 2012 is, I think, completely finished now; then other agreements have been made afterwards. And there we look forward very much to having some negotiations in a few years' time to improve the conditions of the tenants.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130836	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130840	Excuse me, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, but it's a little bit weird. It really is, according to a general parliamentary practice and the general practice we have in the Folketing, and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen all around. After all, it is not a way to be a conciliation party, to be part of the negotiation process. Well, that doesn't make any sense. After all, we are talking about a conciliation that has been concluded a long time ago, and that has not ended now. The outcome of the 2014 conciliation is, I believe, being achieved, and there have been lengthy negotiations on this. When I was in the Radical Left, I myself was a housing rapporteur and negotiating party from the Radical Left, and these were lengthy discussions and also very heated discussions, but we did get the crab in the end. I've never experienced making an agreement that I've been 100 percent satisfied with never. That would not be good either, because it has nothing to do with democracy. It's a matter of everyone getting some so everyone can see themselves somewhere. Has Enhedslisten been so poor in the negotiation process that you can't even see yourself in any of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028130959	Of course we can, but I think that what Jens Rohde is talking about here is nonsense, because if it were like the approach, we might as well not have had the negotiations, and then the minister could have just sent it there without a discussion. In fact, I think it is essential for there to be a debate and then a debate. And at some point we could not achieve it and then the Minister chose to say: well then I will send it to the Chamber. Has the settlement ended? No, it is not quite so, because there is a clause in the settlement: the parties agree to renegotiate the rental law no later than 3 years after the entry into force of the combined law. If the parties cannot reach an agreement here, the settlement shall be deemed terminated. In other words, the settlement is not fully completed. If it is the case that, in three years' time, it was decided that everyone in the conciliation did not agree, then we would be free to have the parliamentary majority that would then be able to go in and fight for the interests of the tenants. I would of course find it extremely interesting if it were the same majority in the Folketing as it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028131106	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028131107	I guess it's not sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, who alone can define whether or not a settlement has ended. That is why I think that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen actually owes an answer to the very relevant question from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Are we going to step out of the settlement which the parties to the conciliation believe still exist? That must be the logical consequence if we end up voting 'no' at the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028131137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028131138	This is not a correct conclusion, because what the 2014 agreement defines is that you order a merger. It does not say that all the parties involved in the agreement are obliged to vote in favour of the composition that might be achieved. There are some principles for this aggregation, and one of the principles is that the legal and economic balance between the landlord and tenant is not upset. That is where our conclusion is that it is being displaced. I tried to free the Left rapporteur earlier to find out where it was that the landlords had some disadvantages. I did not get a concrete answer to that. I can then try to arrive at where the balance is in committee when 28 000 small houses and leases are going to get a higher rent. So what do they get in return?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028131233	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028131253	Thank you for the floor. We have to go back to 2014, as has been mentioned, where a number of parties reached a settlement on simplifying and modernising rental law. It was considered that the rental legislation was complicated and marked by many years of ongoing adjustments and additions. The agreement was partly to ensure the simplification and modernisation of the rental law, which happened in 2015, and partly to combine the rental law and the housing regulation law, and that is what we have here today. Three proposals have come out of this. One proposal concerns a new law on rental, which contains only rules relating to direct rental. The second proposal deals with housing law and has the character of a public law law. And the third proposal is then about the impact changes to other legislation that are needed as a result of the first two laws. It is extremely complicated, and the big question is, of course, whether the desired simplification disappears in the composition and whether the balances have been found. However, as I understand it, the purpose and purpose of the merger is, in fact, precisely to create a better overview of the rental legislation and that it is a technical combination of the rental regulations, as is currently the case in the rent law and the housing regulation law respectively. I also understand that L 47 and L 48 are basically a continuation of the existing rules; however, with L 47, new rules are proposed to strengthen the rights of subletters in subletting conditions simply because there have been examples that the subletters have speculated not to repay, for example. deposit. Thus, legal certainty for subletters is strengthened by the draft law by inter alia: to limit the amount of the prepaid rent so that it cannot exceed an amount equal to the rent to be paid from the date of termination of the lease contract and the termination of the lease. L 47 is therefore only about rules relating to the direct rental relationship, so the tenants and the landlords, unlike today, can simply orient themselves in this law. The second draft law, that is, L 48, has the character of this law of public law, which, among other things, is: governs the obligation of residence, the activities of the rent board, compulsory administration and a number of other matters of public law. In addition to the provisions of the applicable lease law and the Housing Regulation Act, the rules on municipal authorising law and the law on compulsory administration of rental property are also incorporated here. The last, L 49, then, is this addition to the two laws that contain the impact changes to other legislation that are needed as a result of the two other new laws. And now you might think, why am I scratching all that up? I do that because I have not been called to the negotiations so I have nothing to be annoyed about in that negotiation process either. Conservatives have not been involved because we were not in the settlement in 2014. And there's just a really good opportunity to get a picture of what you've been working on, and what's it all about? What's it all about? What's it all about? I will therefore, of course, use the committee's work to find out whether this interpretation, which I stand and give here, is correct and to verify and clarify whether this is really the simplification requested, and whether this aggregation has changed the balance between tenants and landlords, as well as the legal balance, but also, of course, the financial balance. I have some specific points to make, and I am thinking of asking them as questions. Then I can say here on the basis of SF and Enhedslisten's speeches and with the statements that I think sound like you want to step out of the settlement, that it could be that with the wishes I have on behalf of Conservatives for this agreement we could enter into the settlement. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028131632	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028131640	This is gonna be a swing-door settlement. That's what we're gonna have to call it. We all call conciliation something, and then we can call this the swing door settlement. Some go out and others come in. That's great. I am having a little fun calling something a simplification, and then we have a bill of 550 pages. They say: We're doing a simplification here, there's 550 pages; get in there, because now we're gonna make new legislation for the Danes out there. That's kind of how I feel about the rental law, and then this could be a technical projection with some minor changes, etc. The work has taken a long time, and it is then a settlement that has been concluded long before New Citizens came to parliament. I think if I had to make the lease law, I would probably have made it something different than it was, but that's how it is, and that's how we feel. I'd like it to be much simpler. If we could make it 20 pages, we would have made a good deal of progress and would that not have been a good simplification? But we must put the level of ambition high. Now I can see and I have heard from the President that you can address if you do not do it directly that there are a lot of young people who are here today, and if they follow the discussion and think what this is really about, then I cannot help saying as an old teacher: It is basically about whether you have a place to live, whether you rent it or what you have to pay for actually living there, whether there are some rules for it or whether you just have to decide for yourself with some others. Can the tenants and the landlords agree on this, or are there any politicians who have to mix so little in it? That's kind of what this is about. We also have some questions in connection with the work of the committee, in fact a little like the Conservatives, because if it is just a merger, then the question is whether you should vote 'yes', because it is simply a merger, or whether you should vote 'no', because you basically do not agree with what is in the rental law, and we will assess that before we make a final decision on those things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028131837	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen to make the New Citizen's point of view or not to do so in this matter. Thank you. I don't see a representative of the Liberal Alliance right now, but on the other hand, I see a representative of the Christian Democrats, and that is Mr. Jens Rohde. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028131858	The Christian Democrats are, of course, for natural reasons not part of the 2014 settlement. It wasn't really a physical possibility that we could be. I am then in the strange situation that I have been in Mrs Susan Kronborg's role as a radical and negotiated part of this earlier, and then there came this shift, and in this context I would like to pay tribute and thank the Minister for the fact that, after all, I have been kept informed and that we have had the opportunity to discuss some of the things. Once again, it is not a given matter, when you have a single mandate, that somebody even wants to listen to what you say, but I think the Minister has done that, so thank you for that. It is always respectful when you listen to the arguments and not just talk into the logic of the mandate. I think it suits the government when it does. The minister must really feel a bit like a groom standing at the altar, and then the bride comes up and says: Before I say yes, I want something more; then you have to pay the whole wedding. Well, that's what it sounds like when you hear Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen. It is a completely bizarre situation to stand in, but I leave it to the government and the Enhedslisten to deal with this little marital vulnerabilities, and then the rest of us must try to take responsibility for what lies here, and I would say that we are happy to do so in the Christian Democrats. It's a complicated matter to have to put this together. It can't be any different, and that's why it's taken so much time. Now it's done. Now there's been an attempt and it's going to be perfect? No, it can never ever be perfect, neither for Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Minister, for Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen or for me, because it's a question of us coming with each of our rationals, and all these rationals have to be thrown up in the air, and some of them fall on the floor, while others land on the table, and then you have to cut a heel and cut a toe, and then you have reached the goal of something that, after all, is a broad support to which I hear it. And that in itself is an expression of a good balance. That is why, as the last point, I would just like to take the liberty of doing Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's speech and words here from the platform to my own, because I think that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen gave an excellent speech from up here. It is not often that I get the opportunity to say it in connection with the Danish People's Party, because we are not so damn agreed on so many things, but I think that speech was just a nice picture of the balance that has been sought in this compilation, and therefore we also offer to take responsibility. With these words, I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028132212	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Rohde, so there's gonna be a little more time from Mr. Rohde. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028132221	Well, Enhedslisten is not married to the government, and we have a settlement from 2014, where you order a merger. We do not say in advance: all power to the Minister if we cannot agree. And it is, in fact, a settlement in which we order a task in which there are some prerequisites for the task to be solved, namely that the legal and economic balance between landlords and tenants is not upset. What, then, is the rapporteur's view of the fact that we have an element in this merger, where there are tenants in 88 000 houses in small houses who are responsible for a substantial increase in rent? And there are some tenant organisations that have made up 2 billion. kr. a year. What, then, is the rapporteur's view that the tenants get in other parts of the bill, so there is the economic and legal balance?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028132316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028132317	After all, the rents are getting the improvements they need. This is the prerequisite for making energy renovations, namely that it will also benefit, for example, from energy renovations. The tenants. And I know what LLO's views are, but I also know where the LLO is in general: for them it will never be good enough. And there must be that balance. Alex Ahrendtsen must also say so; it must be the case that there are private people who want to rent their homes, in other words private owners who want to rent their homes, because the alternative is a rather large housing shortage, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. That is, of course, the consequence of the whole or nothing policy pursued by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028132410	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028132411	Well, that was a little out of the question. It is clear that if you renovate your home, there is an improvement in it. However, it is planned that this dwelling may increase more than hitherto in relation to the rent that the tenant has to pay. So there's an opportunity for the landlord to make an extra profit if that's how we pass this bill. And that is why this economic and legal balance is not right. In other words, I am trying to relate to the substance of it, so that is what I am trying to confront the rapporteur, namely that this is what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028132449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028132450	Yeah. And it has to be the case that it pays for private landlords to renovate the housing stock. I have said so many times that I almost think the Minister knows exactly what I am going to say now: otherwise we will end up with the House at Christianshavn. And it may be that some people find it charming to sit and look at the house at Christianshavn and how charming it was with these miserable living conditions! And the prerequisite for us to have proper housing conditions and we do not have a toilet in the yard is that the housing stock is constantly being renovated and that it is also worthwhile for the private sector to do so. It is ultimately for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028132541	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no more brief comments. All the rapporteurs have taken the floor and I can now give the floor to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028132549	Thank you. If we're going to rebuild the house at Christianshavn, I'd like to play Poul Reichhardt's part, and then Mr. Jens Rohde gets to choose number two. Thank you for the discussion and comments. We will implement the lease agreement from 2014 on a technical consolidation of the rental law. It has been a long-term process for several reasons, first of all because it took a lot of years before the legislative text was actually completed from 2015 to 2020. Now we have some laws. They have been in external consultation and have been quality-proofed by Professor Hans Henrik Edlund from Aarhus University, and we hope that it has provided a tool that will enable players to benefit from the legislation a little bit more. New rules strengthen the rights of subletters and, of course, we hope that this will put an end to some of the speculation that has been uncovered in the daily press, including in the field of subletting. But if you don't, I'd say it's a merger. More questions are raised: Has the balance shifted between tenant and landlord? There are several answers to that. First of all, professionally speaking, I do not think that the balance has shifted. I believe that we have made a compilation here based on case law, i.e. the compilation of the two existing pieces of legislation. We've had a rental law, and we've had a housing regulation law. The Housing Regulation Act was a temporary law, which was passed in 1949, I think it was. So we can discuss the temporary nature of that piece of legislation, but now, if nothing else, we will have this temporary nature lifted. So I think that the combination that has taken place is a reflection of case law in a professional sense. If you do not buy the professional argument, then you can say that this is what we agreed to in our conciliation group back in December last year, namely that it had to be submitted to a hearing, and if there was any doubt as to what was the case law, then it should be heard by Professor Hans Henrik Edlund, and we had to take note of his answer in relation to the doubts that there were. That's what it's been like. And what he has answered, which he has contributed with and also here a thank you for his efforts, is what has now become the bill. So I think we can say calmly that if we are finally to talk about the fact that the balance has shifted, then it has moved a very little, marginally, towards the tenants, in the sense that subletters have been guaranteed better rights. The question is: has it been simplified? That is also what the Conservative rapporteur asked. I can say quite clearly that it is not very important. So what Mrs Mona Juul says is true. It has of course been simplified in the sense that we have written the same in one piece of legislation; it is, of course, a basis for simplifying something forward-looking. However, the proposals that were made to simplify there were perhaps a 30-35 pieces, I think there was no agreement in the conciliation circle and, when there is no agreement, of course they cannot be adopted, and that is why it was as it was. The question, as some of the rapporteurs have mentioned, is whether it is a problem that many of those who are players in the private rental market are pissed off or think that this legislation is not as good as it might be. I do not really consider that to be a problem in itself. My experience in this area is that it should be the case that both sides are angry. If there is one of the pages that is satisfied, it is usually because you have pushed very violently in that direction. That is why I do not necessarily see it as a disadvantage that there are many who are now sceptical. It's not to talk down to people that I say they're mad. The fact that people are sceptical about legislation does not seem to me to be a problem. I actually see this as part of the consultation process and as an expression of the desire of each one to influence it, of course, in the direction one wants itself. Then there was also some criticism from the rapporteur of the Left in relation to the process and so on. Now it is the bill that we are debating, but I would nevertheless like to say that it is good that the Left has awakened a little. Sometimes you can get the feeling that it's all about asking questions and dragging things a little bit timewise. More factually, it is now only 1 July that this law enters into force. It is not 1 January, as the rapporteur of the Left says. However, it is perhaps a very good picture of why the discussion has sometimes been a little skewed and dragged a little over. It is also important to read what is in the small print. However, I would like to thank you for your consideration in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133051	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister. First, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133057	The Minister is right that this has been a long process. And under the previous government, I sometimes wondered whether we should try to push Mr. Ole Birk Olesen to come as a minister with the composition, or whether you should think: Maybe it will be better after a choice, with a new Minister for Housing. And that's the last thing I was hoping for, which is why I haven't pressed so hard on you to live up to the 2014 agreement. And now we are here today at a first reading where I do not really think we have come to the end. And that's why we're pulling this out. We do not think that the legal and economic balance has been achieved. And that's why both SF and Enhedslisten have this approach that, as far as the small houses are concerned, it is not the balance that is ensured here. And I would really like to hear the Minister: what will the tenants get in return if you end up changing the terms of those 88,000 leases in small houses?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133202	Thank you. I mean, whether it was me as a minister or whether it had been Mr. Ole Birk Olesen or another minister who had sat with it, it would have been the case that the conciliation circle could adopt what there is. And it can be said that if you had to make some major changes to this legislation, or just the thirty-and-a-half amendments that we had on the table, which were not very violent, then you should have had an agreement around the table. So that would not be possible in any case. I do not see a shift in the balance, I see a reflection, including in the case of small houses, of the existing legislation. That is how I see it, and we have professional evidence of that in the Ministry and from those who are working with it on the board, and we have Professor Hans Henrik Edlund's word for that, and I rest on that assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133257	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133258	Well, what do the tenants in the small houses get in return? With the new law, you have the prospect of an increase in rent which is more significant than if we do not change the conditions for them. So they're gonna get a disadvantage. And when it's that big a lump in the bill, I don't think it's gonna meet the composition requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133326	The rapporteur misunderstands what I am saying. I don't think you're pushing anything. You shouldn't have anything in return, if you haven't given anything, based on that logic. In this legislation, we reflect the case law that exists. That is what the government officials in the department say, and that is what Hans Henrik Edlund notes. And I'll stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133351	The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133354	Thank you. I need some information from the Minister. In other words, after the agreement had been concluded, the Ministry took care to implement the terms of the agreement into account in the legislation. The law will then be sent into consultation, the consultation parties will report back, and then it will be adjusted if it can be included within the framework of the agreement. Once that has happened, the law and the laws are sent out to the contract circle for review to see if it is all what has been agreed. Afterwards, the law is introduced, and eventually it comes down to the Chamber. What interests me is whether Enhedslisten and SF have objected to the law as it is when it was sent out before the submission to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133450	I simply cannot remember that on a stand-by basis. I know that Enhedslisten and SF have pointed out that they had the same attitude as the Land Organisation of the Rents, but when they have done so, and if they have done so in writing, I cannot remember on a stand-by basis. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133508	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133508-2	Well, they haven't, because if they had done that, then the whole circle of the agreement would have been involved, and we would have postponed the submission of the bill and therefore also the examination. However, the reason why I am asking is that I find it very distasteful and weird that you come here with amendments in the Chamber when you have had the opportunity to do something about it before you have done so. Would the Minister agree that if SF and Enhedslisten cannot stand for the law as such, then they have automatically resigned from the settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133546	Well, as I recall, last December we agreed that we should send it to a hearing and that any doubts about the case-law should be settled by Professor Hans Henrik Edlund, and that is what I think we have done. And I think all six parties agreed on that. Now I must also go back and see if that is the case, but if that is the case, then it is clear that it is also a prerequisite for joining the conciliation that the overall legislative proposal is then supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133614	The next brief remark is from Mrs Heidi Bank, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133617	Thank you. And I would like to say that I recall it in the same way as the Minister does in relation to the agreement that was made. And I also think that there should be some respect for the fact that there are a great many people who have worked on this, both as the Minister is now presenting it, but also in relation to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, whom I think has mentioned in a very good way. I mean, this whole thing about how we can't expect them all to sit around and think this was perfect. Because these are organisations of interest that continue to fight for the same people they represent. And you have to have respect for that is their starting point. However, in a sense it is also a good balance when there is some disagreement among the parties. And, of course, the Minister must apologize if I have said a wrong date and criticised it. I am aware that the Minister has a large ministry in his back, and I have just me and an employee. I regret that, but at least the Left feels that it is positive that we have come so far, despite the fact that we think it was very, very sluggish and a real, really tough round to go through in order to get this far. But let's just leave it alone. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133732	Well, I have nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133738	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Home Affairs and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133753	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Malte Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133812	Thank you very much. The reason for this bill is that an EU regulation on cross-border parcel delivery services came into force in January 2019. The Regulation obliges Member States to lay down penalties in the event of non-compliance with the reporting obligations under the Regulation. This is why the draft law proposes the introduction of fines which may be imposed in the event of non-reporting of information, and the imposition of fines is considered to be the most effective and effective way of ensuring timely and accurate reporting. The companies covered by the Regulation are parcel delivery companies with 50 or more persons or employees employed in parcel delivery services. Companies must report a number of different information about their activities to the National Managing Authority, and in Denmark the National Managing Authority is the Traffic Authority. Specific deadlines for reporting have been set. The reporting includes basic background information on enterprises as well as information on annual turnover, number of employees in the previous calendar year as well as the number of packages handled in the previous calendar year, the name of relevant subcontractors and any publicly available current price list. Social democracy can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133932	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Heidi Bank. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028133946	Thank you. I have to say that today I am the deputy for the Left Transport Rapporteur, Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Let's move on to the bill. It is important that the European parcel transport market shows transparency for citizens and businesses, and therefore package carriers must comply with the reporting deadlines in order to provide relevant background information. Packagers are already subject to the regulation on cross-border parcel delivery services. We have noted that, in individual cases, the Danish Road Traffic Authority has had to shift the package companies for the information after the deadline. We must prevent future reporting from taking place in a timely manner. Member States are obliged to impose sanctions in order to comply with the provisions of the Regulation. Of course, these sanctions must be proportionate and dissuasive. The Danish Road Traffic Authority will assess whether there is a reporting obligation in the specific situation if there are uncertainties in the packaging company. We have noted that the Ministry of Transport writes in a reply that the package companies have the opportunity to engage in dialogue with the Danish Transport Authority. The Transport Authority will hold a meeting with the relevant brance organisations where any doubts may be discussed. We have also noted that in the hearings it is pointed out by Dansk Industri and Dansk Erhverv that the actual level of fines should be set in the bill. Furthermore, the draft law should specify the types of transport covered by the Regulation. This is, of course, something that we are aware of and will ask questions about in committee. Against this background, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028134135	Thank you. I see that there are no brief remarks to the rapporteur, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028134148	Thank you. This will probably not be the longest rapporteur speech I will be delivering here today, even if you have five minutes at your disposal. After all, it is a bill that the Minister has chosen to put forward, so that there must of course be the possibility of sanctioning cross-border parcel delivery services, which do not take it as a logical task to do so regularly and correctly when they deliver packages to Denmark and to Danish customers. Of course, they also have to comply with the existing legislation, which is in relation to complying with the deadlines for background information relating to the services and services provided. We in the Danish People's Party think that it is excellent to have this additional authorisation, which, after all, lies in it, but we are also, of course, interested, as the rapporteur of the Left said, in clearly specifying what it is for some sanctions that are so tangible. However, we believe that this will also be possible in the legislative process and in the third reading. But as a starting point, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028134258	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Here too there are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Then it is the Socialist People's Party, but I see no rapporteurs present from the Socialist People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left. There is no one present either. I note another party that is not taking part in the debate. On the other hand, I see a rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, so I can now welcome Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028134326	Perhaps I should have pointed out in advance that I actually have a greeting so called? So does Enhedslisten. We support the draft law; we think it is sensible to introduce sanctions, penalties, for failure to report both turnover, number of employees and also the names of subcontractors, we are equally aware of. We think that is very sensible. This could be a good tool in the fight against social dumping, which is indeed flourishing in the postal sector. It is actually surprising that this penalty regime was not already introduced on 23 November 2019, as the regulation actually provides. But better late than never, one can say, and the draft law is, in our opinion, a minimum of effort that can be made in a liberalised postal market. In our opinion, and this is not unknown, liberalisation is something the hell has created here in the form of the European Union. This is the cause of many of the problems that we have today in the postal sector, with social dumping and arms and legs companies, which compete well-ordered and good postal companies such as our own PostNord/Denmark, where you have decent and well-paid permanent jobs. It is a pity, but it is also clear that social dumping and good jobs are not part of the requirements of such a regulation on postal services and liberalisation. It never is when we talk about the internal market. The issue of demanding action against social dumping is not the EU's main competence. But when you look at the bill, I think you look a little in vain for the level of sanctions. The comments made on the individual provisions state that it is necessary to assess the applicability of the penalty clause in specific cases. Yes, of course you do. However, when an infringement has been detected, a specific assessment must be made of what should happen in dialogue with the company and, in the event of non-reporting, the Danish Road Traffic Authority will have a few rounds, it says to help me through a couple of rounds... ask the company for answers within a new extended deadline, as it says, and only then will there be a notification to the police. I have to say that it is really the kid gloves that have been found here. I do not know what to compare it with, but I would think that any simple thief would enjoy such treatment if he had committed theft or broken the law at all. I really think it's the velvet gloves that have been found. It also states that the penalty must be proportionate to the infringement. I have to say that if the level of sanctions is taken as a starting point, it is certainly not a serious offense that one considers it to be if one violates the reporting obligation, and I do not actually agree with that. I think it is important, as I say, that the reporting should actually also report the subcontractors you use. It is, after all, a widespread phenomenon in the postal services of a whole number of the postal companies that they use subcontractors and typically in the form of arms and legs companies. This also applies to some of the big ones here in Denmark, GLS and Bring, and who else it is that appears in this market. We support the proposal, of course, because it is an improvement after all, but we think that the level of sanctions could be increased a great deal. Moreover, we think that the distribution of mail may have more problems than this, although it is bad enough that there will be no stricter sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028134817	Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested and just a brief comment on it in order to call on both the higher and the lower powers: the President remained calm and then chooses to comment on it after the rapporteur's speech. Henning Hyllested I have a strained relationship with them. ) I am familiar with Mr. Henning Hyllested's relationship with these powers. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028134841	So thank you for that and thank you for the floor. I won't summon anyone. Because I would also like, on behalf of our rapporteur, to read Niels Flemming Hansen's speech. It says this: today we are dealing with an EU regulation which provides for the power to sanction infringements of reporting obligations under the regulation on cross-border parcel delivery services. The draft law proposes to introduce penalties for breaches of the reporting obligation under the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on cross-border parcel delivery services. The Regulation on cross-border parcel delivery services has been applicable in the Member States since January 2019 and requires all parcel delivery companies of 50 persons or more employees engaged in parcel delivery services to report a number of different background information about the business to the national regulatory authority. We are in favour of this. However, we would like to state that, as Danish Occupation points out, there is considerable uncertainty in the industry as to which packages should be reported data and how these should be calculated. Especially for parcel delivery companies, which are also freight suppliers, the separation between addressed packages and goods seems unclear. At the same time, we want to deepen the scale of fines. Last but not least, writes Niels Flemming Hansen, there are several points in Dansk Erhvervs og Dansk Industri's comments, which we are sensitive to and wish for further discussion in the committee. And then he concludes by saying that we are in favour of the proposal, but we want some clarification before we can take a final position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135004	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135026	I don't really want to say much about this bill. After all, there are a number of points which have also been made by the other rapporteurs, and then there are some consultation answers which also give me reason to ask some questions in committee. So I will do so before we decide what we think of the legislative proposal itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135052	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. I do not see the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, but on the other hand I see the rapporteur of the Christian Democrats, so welcome Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135105	Thank you. Now the church minister has come to the Chamber, and after that Mr. Henning Hyllested's speech I went down to the hall and wondered if there were any ethical, Christian values that I, as a counterpart, could attach to the invocation of some lower powers, as Mr. Henning Hyllested made in his speech, but I simply cannot find anything like that, and so I shall refrain from calling for anything other than a few answers from the Minister with the same questions that have been asked from other parties. Of course, it is clear from such a bill, as all other legislative proposals show, what the amount of the fine should be up to some limit, so there is a ceiling on the amount of the fine, and then it is up to the authorities to decide. This must be the case, and I hope that the Minister will take a positive view of this. I think that would be wise for the time that more people have mentioned it. And then it is clearly important that we define which transports are covered by this. With these words, we are in favour of the proposal, which we basically think is right. I would just like to make one more comment on Mr Seligman's report. Henning Hyllested's speech. I think it's just as hard enough as thieves in this context, because that's not what this is about. Transport is not always a simple business, and mistakes are made. I just always find it interesting that when you hear Enhedslisten and socialist parties, it is always the case that if it is a public company operating postal services, or what I know, there is no one but as soon as it is in private hands, they are full of thieves and must meet with one sanction after another. I just think that there is a discrepancy and that it is a strange indictment, but it must be in their DNA that only the public is able to provide proper solutions to what the people are asking for, and that is where I just want to say that we do not share that ideology in the Christian Democrats. I think it is a good thing that in the world in which we live today we have also had our parcel and postal services liberalised, because otherwise I think we could wait a very long time for several packages and letters. It is good that you can go out and find a supplier who can provide delivery at the right price and at the right time. And fortunately, there are good choices. It creates flexibility and flexibility is good. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135415	Sir. Jens Rohde has simply called for a brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135423	It is clear that I cannot of course fail to comment on this. That is a wild misinterpretation of what I said, and Mr. Jens Rohde well, I guess... a wild misinterpretation. When I make a comparison with thieves, it is really just about the level of sanctions, as Mr. As a matter of fact, Jens Rohde himself has a few comments to make. It is, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, the gloves that have been found here. Of course, you can judge that it's okay for you to do it. I'm just thinking about all the other offenders, not necessarily thieves. I think all sorts of other offenders would be very happy if it were the kind of velvet gloves they were put on when they had violated one or the other law. That's kind of just what I was trying to make a comparison with. It shouldn't give rise to that wild misinterpretation of what Enhedslisten's DNA is in relation to liberalism, and I shall give you, I shall.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135527	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135527-2	Sir. Henning Hyllested is absolutely right. It was a caricature, and of course one can say that is a wild misinterpretation, but it was now because Mr. Henning Hyllested managed to make an ideological speech about an incredibly boring bill, and I thought that was impressive. That's the kind of thing that excites my sense of humor, and then I thought, "Well, maybe we could take a little tour with it." That was good-natured teasing, and that's also why I said it with a big smile but point taken, sir. Henning Hylllested!
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135606	The tour is followed by a brief comment to Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135609	Well, it's received that way too. I certainly thought it was quite good-natured. It is good that we then have the opportunity to fling with the slightly more ideological aspects of it. It is a really boring legislative proposal, you might say, to take a position, and then it is very nice that you can be allowed to criticise liberalism, which is not what you can see with the whole touch that is around the post, and with the judgments that have fallen by the European Union, in relation to PostNord, etc. etc. But it is a completely different and much wider discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135646	Jens Rohde and it is very interesting to apologize, President). Here you go, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135651	This is where you have the floor, and you do not take the floor. First Vice-President). Mr. Henning Hyllested is right in that it is a rather interesting discussion. It is certainly worth taking, but now we are also subject to international rules, and this must necessarily be the case in an internal market where we can then be for or against the internal market. In a market where we have the free movement of goods, services, people and capital, we inherit each other's accidents, and that is why it is important that we have some political superstructures on free movement with some common rules. It is therefore a good thing that there is an initiative here on a common European front which is actually trying to address some of the issues that there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135738	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. Then there are no more brief comments and no more rapporteurs have asked to speak. I can therefore give the floor to the Minister for Transport. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028135748	Thank you, President. I would also like to begin by thanking Mr. Henning Hylllested for the exchange that has just taken place with Mr. Jens Rohde up here to make sure that what saw, I understand, is the dullest bill in the Assembly Hall at this time, was not so boring that there was nothing for the honourable listeners to follow both for those sitting behind the screens, and not least the surprisingly many who are in the Chamber now. So thank you for that, too. However, I shall refrain from commenting on higher or lower powers. Thank you for the rapporteurs' comments on the draft law. In January 2019, the regulation on cross-border parcel delivery services came into force, and it must, of course, create this greater transparency. It has also been examined quite clearly by the rapporteurs in its context. That is why I must not hide the fact that this is a matter of duty which must be implemented, and that is why perhaps there is also this rather boring element that there is not so much context in it. I would also just like to say that, of course, I had hoped that we among the parties of the Folketing would have agreed on a new postal law, in which the content that is here could also be included. Everyone here knows that was not possible and could not happen. That is why we have come a little behind in implementing the regulation, and that is why we have this little change, which I admit is a bit boring in the main context. It must be implemented. I would just like to point out that neither I nor the Ministry of Transport imagine that there will now be, if I may say so, a fine area floating on anyone. I am actually quite convinced that reports of the requested information as a rule will come in not just a flow of light, but in a very influx to the relevant authority, the Traffic Authority. In the event of non-compliance with the reports, it is therefore necessary for the Danish Road Traffic Authority to be able to take action and sanctions, as provided for in the regulation. Here I have to correct a little bit, because I think that, sir. Henning Hyllested referred to whether the dialogue was a little mixed up with some of the things stated in the consultation note. It is that there will be a dialogue on the fixing of the level of fines between the Transport Authority and the Public Prosecutor in the specific case where a fine had to be imposed. But the dialogue, as I think Mr. Henning Hyllested has to be made, is if there is an uncertainty about what it is that needs to be reported. I think that is what appears on page 2 of the consultation note. In other words, if there are any doubts between the players in the market and the Road Traffic Authority about what it is actually to report, that is where there must be an extensive dialogue. This is also what I heard from Mrs Heidi Bank in her rapporteur's speech that the Left appreciates that the consultation answers given by Danish Industry and Danish Industry will therefore be taken into account, and I know that the Committee on Transport and Tourism has also received the consultation note. According to the consultation answers, there are some uncertainties in the industry as to in which cases and in what way information on packages should be recorded and reported. That is why the Danish Road Traffic Authority is in the first place holding a meeting with the trade associations in order to ensure that such doubts are actually resolved. Because, as I said, the purpose is not to trigger a fine. The aim is thus to be sure that the information that comes to the authorities is also the correct one and that the companies know what kind of information they have to submit to them no more or less. That is why I am now quite sure that we can come up with a sensible way of dealing with this. However, should there be some doubts about this, let us finally take them into consideration in the specific committee. I look forward to it and to answering any questions that may be asked, among other things. what Mrs Heidi Bank indicated. I look forward to further treatment and, as I said, thank you for your positive reception.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140232	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140237	Thank you to the Minister for perhaps clearing up a misunderstanding. I now have to say that I have relied on the comments on the legislative proposal's individual provisions. In fact, at the end of the provisions of § 1, it says: "Every over&#x2; resigning will be assessed in concrete terms in the Danish Traffic Authority and in dialogue with the company concerned. In case of non-reporting, the Board will typically ask the company for answers within a new extended deadline. That is what I referred to when I said that it is good enough to put on with velvet gloves. However, I can understand, according to what the Minister has just said, that what it says about dialogue is a dialogue about why it has given rise to the fact that reporting is not correct or what it is that you have to report or something like that. But I have to say that I do not think this is clear from the text of the individual provisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140337	We would, of course, like to clarify this in greater detail in the committee's work, but it is clear that if it is the case that a company does not provide the right information, then it is the most important thing to ensure that it is the right information that is being provided. And then it is clear that it must also be possible to impose a sanction, especially in cases where a company may deliberately fail to pass on the information. But there may also be cases where you simply have doubts about how to do, what it is you have to report, etc., for example. if there are new companies. I am thinking that it is hardly the large operators in this area who may have doubts about this, because it is quite normal practice that they even submit quite extensive information to the Danish Road Traffic Authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140426	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140426-2	Just to be precise, I would like to say that the dialogue referred to is not a dialogue in which one sits down and starts to discuss with them what they should then be punished. It's an attempt to help the company on its way to make a proper report. However, I note that afterwards it still says a few laps to ask the company to report if you continue to notice. It's a long leash I think they get.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140458	Yes, and let us clarify this in writing. However, it is clear that the level of fines will never be fixed in a dialogue with the person who has committed an inappropriate act. That's not how the fine systems work. It is clear that this will be an authority decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140519	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. Then no one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140542	The debate is open and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Julie Skovsby. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140549	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. The Corona epidemic had major consequences for Denmark, including for religious communities. For a long time one could not meet, gather and express one's faith as one was used to. New ways to be together were found, and that was good. These are lessons from which we can all hopefully learn. Unfortunately, this also meant that the experiences that should have been gained around religions outside the church were flawed. Experience has only been gained from the life of communities of faith during the first two years of the existence of the law. It will therefore be a poor treatment if we already draw conclusions, not least on donations and accounts. We in the Social Democratic Party want to revise the legislation on a more important basis of experience, and that is why we support the bill that postpones revision to the parliamentary year 2022/23. I would like to welcome Mrs Marianne Jelved and say that the Radical Left can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140717	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140724	Thank you so much. Now the Socialist rapporteur has very well explained the situation here and why it is asked to postpone the revision of the law on religion. In the Left, of course, we also want to be able to make a proper evaluation of the law of religion, which is why we also support the possibility of postponing it. Of course, it should not be a sleeping pillow, but as long as we continue working on it, we can support the postponement of the law of religion, and we should welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140800	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur, who is present in the Chamber, is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Welcome to Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140808	Thank you very much. Of course, in order for us to be able to revise the law on religions, it requires that we have a basis of experience to review. Unfortunately, we have not, when corona did, that the churches and communities of faith were the very last to open up; they came only after football stadiums and concerts. So we do not have sufficient experience to assess on, and that is why we naturally support in the Danish People's Party that we postpone it until the parliamentary year 2022-23.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140841	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I do not see that the Socialist People's Party rapporteur is present in the Chamber, but it may be that there are also greetings from the Socialist People's Party and also from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. It seems strange that there are so few rapporteurs present for the legislative procedure, but they have been greeted; I must admit that. I see New Citizens' rapporteur. I'm glad. Welcome to Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140907	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I am not going to greet either the Socialist People's Party or the Enhedslisten. After all, I have not been asked to do so. The law that we are talking about today, which needs to be revised, is a law that we in the New Citizens would not support. That is why we already know quite specifically where we are going to make the changes. We also believe that it is easy to revise the law at this stage, so we are voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140940	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. I do not see that the Liberal Alliance is present in the Chamber either, but I see the Christian Democrats represented by Mr. Jens Rohde. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028140957	We can easily support the bill. Now I said before that the Minister for Transport made a boring proposal, but one might say that a revision clause is perhaps even more boring. But when I have the platform, I would just like to ask the Minister to postpone his decision to translate all foreign sermons into Danish. It is a violent interference in the various religions. I'd almost call it unchristian that you do it. After all, there have also been several calls from bishops and others to refrain from doing so. So now that different provisions are being put off, I also hope that this particular bill announced here will be kicked as far into the future as one can imagine, because it does not belong anywhere, and it is, in my opinion, an all-out, far-fetched intervention in the faith communities and their own lives. But that doesn't have much to do with just this, except that it's about a delay. And with these words, I just want to say that, of course, we support this bill, and then I just got to say what the heart is now filled with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028141130	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. That's what I call creatively and thus passed. There are no more rapporteurs who wish to speak for the debate, and that gives me the pleasure of giving the floor to the Minister of Churches.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028141146	Thank you for that, President, and above all thank you for your willingness and flexibility. After all, it is a bill that should postpone the statutory revision of the law on religions outside the church, so that it is carried out instead in the parliamentary year 2022-23. After all, the purpose of revising it is precisely to ensure that, after a few years, a decision is taken as to whether the law actually works as intended and as requested by it. That is why you need a certain amount of experience. Several rapporteurs have said so far that we do not have enough and that this is therefore sensible. In addition, a postponement will also provide even more scope for an inclusive process, which covid-19 has also been an obstacle to so far. So, against this background, and also because I always wish and gladly participate in beating the Minister of Transport, I thank you for the support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028141249	Thank you to the church minister. There are no brief remarks to the church minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Churches. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211028141306	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 29 October 2021, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
