ParlaMint-DK_20210225100003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill no. L 179 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Bill No. L 180 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries (Rasmus Prehn): Bill No. L 181 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Fisheries. Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 166 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution imposing a deadline on social media and other digital platforms for the deletion of illegal images and material) and motion for a resolution No. B 170 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the possibility of parole for the life of the sentenced person). René Christensen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 167 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of tax credits for expenditure on halal controls and halal certifications). Pernille Vermund (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 168 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the repeal of the Ministerial Regulation of the Public Service Act). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 169 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the convening of negotiations on the Public Procurement Act). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Equal Opportunities (Peter Hummelgaard) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the perspective and action plan for gender equality 2021. R 12). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday 15 April 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225100154	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225100229	There was just a little tension on the way up, but I found my way to the platform. With this motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion want the government to set up an inter-ministerial working group to clarify the legal framework for prostitution in Denmark. The motion for a resolution is based on a number of assumptions about legal grey areas, which reflect misunderstandings about the current legal situation in this area. For example: The B 48 states that prostitutes cannot join others in a clinic and, for example, hire a person to keep watch. ▪ We have already made this clear in the conciliation that the Minister for Justice and I had been convened by the Committee on Social Affairs and Home Affairs on 20 October 2020 on exactly the same subject as today's motion for a resolution. There it appeared, and I would like to repeat this today, that it is a guard, a driver, etc., who works and is paid on ordinary terms. There are no rules to prevent prostitutes from hiring guards under normal conditions; this made the Minister of Justice very clear in the consultation which the proposers had called on this subject on 20 October, so it cannot come as a surprise to anyone in the Chamber today either. The same applies to drivers, telephone operators or others who carry out so-called auxiliary functions, for example. also auditors. Nor does the provision of the ruffle prevent several prostitutes from acting together and sharing the costs as long as it takes place in an equal community where no one decides on the others or makes money from the others' prostitution. Nor is there any legal obstacle to the provision of health insurance or other insurance to persons in prostitution. The Minister for Justice has also replied to the consultation only four months ago. In other words, there is no legal grey area at all which the parties are trying to conjure up in the resolution. And then we have to ask ourselves: what is the real meaning of the resolution? Sometimes one hears that the political blocs in Denmark are so similar that it is not possible to know the difference between what the parties want, but I would like to highlight prostitution as an example where it is quite clear that there may be quite a fundamental difference in how we view things. Basically, the government we have now sees prostitution as a social problem which has a major damaging effect on the individual, both physically and mentally. Therefore, the government's efforts are about getting people out of not entering We want to improve help for people in prostitution, and this must be seen as a natural part of the overall ambition to improve the welfare of the most vulnerable people in Denmark. This applies both on the prevention side and in the very concrete action. One of the first things I did as the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior was to resign the former bourgeois government working group, which among other things. should look at different models of how prostitution could be recognised as a profession and give prostitutes the right to unemployment and sickness benefit. When I set up the working group, it was because it had an ideological battle side which is deeply problematic. Among other things, the working group was to: • uncover foreign experience, including pros and cons, as well as possible consequences of different models for the normalisation of prostitution as an occupation. The working group in today's motion for a resolution has been cut across the same reading. I know that the sentence I just quoted has been skilfully omitted from the motion for a resolution, but that does not alter the fact that the motion for a resolution involves a great deal of interest in matters relevant to the general labour market, such as: tax, unemployment legislation, pension legislation. But prostitution is not a normal job, it is primarily a social problem and it must be attacked as such. Since the government took office, we have therefore focused on improving social action in relation to prostitution. In the agreement on the mobilisation of the reserve for 2020, we, by the way, agreed on a proposal for an exit package for people in prostitution, by the way, thank you very much for that. It was an important first step. The Exit Package has been implemented in the autumn, and it means that we are now going to see concrete, targeted projects that work with exit and advice of people in prostitution in Esbjerg, Odense, Aarhus and Copenhagen. This is a major step forward in social action against prostitution. The initiative from the reserve for 2020 also includes as a key part that we need an updated knowledge base on prostitution in Denmark. VIV will implement in 2020 and the start of 2021 the mapping of prostitution in Denmark. The survey includes an update on the extent and forms of prostitution, adjacent social problems and knowledge of how many people want to leave prostitution. The new survey will be a strong starting point for further work in this area. In recent reserve negotiations, too, we have proposed initiatives in the field of prostitution, this time on the prevention side, and this time too, there was support for the initiative by the parties in broad terms here in the Folketing, which means that we can now launch an initiative to prevent grey-zone prostitution among young people. Six months ago, it is probably now, so we saw a worrying feature on TV 2, where a young woman offered courses in what she and others call sugardating, in other words, courses on how other young women could become better suckerdaters, and among some of the things she taught them was how they could take into account their own security in this regard. NedenYoung tells us that young people in grey zone prostitution can lose control, can become addicted to gifts, can find it difficult to enter into relationships without money and end up living dangerous double lives because they do not share with friends and family what they do. And the article and the knowledge from RedenYoung show just how relevant it is to take action with a strong prevention effort in the field of prostitution, so also thank you for your support for it. In other words, from the government's point of view, when we work with prostitution as a social problem, we have to prevent, and we have to take action with help and support. I don't think it's a surprise that the government is rejecting this proposal. Several of the aspects which are also mentioned in the motion for a resolution 'exit', better knowledge 'yes', we have already addressed them in political agreements and, as I have said, a great deal of thanks to the broad majority of Parliament who have been involved in it. Now we add prevention to our efforts for the youngest. When we in the government relate to prostitution, we do so from a social perspective. It makes no sense to talk about so-called rights, which are, of course, more about looking at different sectoral rules such as taxation, pensions and labour market conditions, i.e. de facto normalisation. Prostitution is not and should not be a profession in line with being a nurse or a primary school teacher or plumber. This was adopted with very open eyes when it was decided to decriminalise prostitution. At the same time, it was an explicit part of the decision that we should not normalise prostitution as a profession in sectoral legislation. A broad majority of the Folketing has stood firm on this since then, and I hope we will continue to do so. I believe that this was the right approach and that it is the right approach. Therefore, the government's efforts are primarily about helping people out of not entering the Thank you for the word.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225100958	Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. There are a number of brief comments to the Minister and the first is from Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101005	Thank you and thank you for your speech to the Minister. All three good times, because now we finally managed to get the motion for a resolution into the Chamber here, and for many different reasons it has also been a year in the process. I'd really like to hear about something. I simply find it so difficult to understand why the Minister will not be involved, as in increasing the knowledge base in relation to people in prostitution. I would like to know whether the Minister does not recognise that the knowledge there is is sparse in relation to people in prostitution. I'm talking about both men and women. First of all, I would like to hear about this from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101047	Firstly, it can be said that in the context of the working group that I set up, the terms of reference stated that there was outdated knowledge, but it was not part of the mandate of the working group and the work that was set in motion to gain the up-to-date knowledge. This is something that we have set in motion together, and indeed, among other things. together with the Conservative People's Party, i.e. the mapping that VIVE is about to do here 10 years after the latest mapping. So the cover that is needed is now being provided. It is therefore entirely wrong to say that the government will not help to obtain the knowledge, the knowledge that was written by the VLAK government itself in its Commission's shortcomings, which the working group set up would not provide, because there was no mapping. There was not the element that one should have the mapping that we have since agreed to make VIVE do. So the short answer is, of course, that we believe it is absolutely essential to have an increased knowledge base, and that is why it is also what has been set in motion, fortunately with broad support in the Folketing, and it will be an important knowledge base to be able to stand on for the debate on how we can move forward in helping more people out of prostitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101148	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101150	Thank you. I'd like to hear about something else, too. It is actually the case that some people have made a conscious choice and do not want to leave prostitution, and I would really like to hear what the government's actions are in terms of helping to ensure that they have proper relations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101217	We have been through this in two consultations. I thought that was what the rapporteur referred to when she said all good times three. This is the third time we have had the same discussion, and I would be happy to take it back. However, it is still not the case that some of the authors of the proposals would otherwise be able to point out where there are problems in our legislation in relation to this target group, unless what you want to do is to normalise sectoral legislation and put this profession on an equal footing with other recognised professions. We must help those who want to get out of prostitution and, of course, we must also help those who are in prostitution. We know that there is imminent danger of threats, of violence, of rape, of all sorts of problems that accompany prostitution, and we must of course help them with that. But I do not know what else is being asked, and I have even spent a lot of time trying to understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101308	The next brief remark is to Mrs Fatma Øktem, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101312	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Minister a question, because I agree with the Minister that this is about us looking at things differently. The minister makes a virtue of mixing it all up often: trafficking in human beings, sugardating and the last group, the minister does not want to talk about much. It is a social problem for those who have challenges and some problems beyond prostitution. We are in complete agreement on that, and it is part of the group that sells sex. In addition, however, some have been asked by my colleague from the Conservative People's Party, namely those who have chosen to be in it of their own accord. And there we see it differently. The Minister's position is: let us indulge them as much as possible; let us make it so difficult for them that they may leave. I would like to ask what makes the Minister believe that exit programmes are the only thing that works as an improvement in this area. And improvement is seen from the Minister's point of view that no one is selling sex at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101427	I have to ask the same question back. Where does the Left think the government makes it difficult for the people who choose to be in prostitution? The Social Democratic Government decriminalized this. We did not mean at the time and do not believe today that the prostitutes should be punished. At the same time, however, we did not mean, and the Left agreed at the time, that it should be normalised as a profession, and that is why we are on the basis we are doing today. So I have to ask you back: does the Left think it is to be rude and to make it difficult for the people who are in prostitution of their own choice that people, for example, should be put out of business? Can't use hotel rooms? Is this the Left would like to have further legalized? Does the Left want this to be a recognised profession when we look at the way our labour market system is? The left will have to tell. You can't just throw out such a charge that the government should make life difficult for people who want to be in prostitution. How do we do that? Tell me, and I'd like to deal with that accusation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101518	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101520	It is now the case, Minister, that I am the one who is asking questions to the Minister. The minister tends to always answer back with questions. The Left does not legalize and the Left does not equate prostitution with other professions. We never have, and neither do we now. What we are saying is that it is an outdated knowledge that we have in this area. I actually asked a very specific question about what exists beyond exit programmes, which is the only thing that means that you should also say something else to the Minister from here, and that is that perhaps the Minister should try to move out there. Because the fact that it's all working so well isn't correct. Perhaps the Minister should try to talk to some of those who are in prostitution, and not just select certain organisations and certain players for when it is the case that the Minister would like to know about this. Was it perhaps an idea the Minister would like to take with him?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101619	I still haven't heard from two consultations and now a round here what the Left specifically thinks needs to be done differently. We have to impose obligations on insurance companies, because there is freedom of agreement. Shall we break with it? And then for this sector, let's say that you have to draw, for example. health insurance? Should we change the law in relation to the bank account? I don't understand what the Left wants. And then it's hard for me to accommodate it. There is outdated knowledge, and that is why we have agreed that we need an updated knowledge base, and we have set aside money for that. VIVE're on it. There is not only help for people in prostitution who will exit. It is also part of the joint agreement and the announcement we have made about the means, namely that there must also be help for people in prostitution to improve their living conditions. And if the Left wanted me to deal specifically with rules which exist today and which need to be changed, the Left must point out some specific rules that need to be changed. I just don't know. It is not malicious will, because I do not know what rules the Left think should be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101711	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101714	Yes, I am tempted to say something about what you know and what you don't know, but I will refrain from doing so. The minister himself says that there is an ideological battle side here. Yeah, that's what the minister said. There is an ideological battle page, for the Minister states and is the banner leader of the victims of all people in the prostitution profession. We have heard that in several consultations now. Now the Minister mentions this in that, at the last conciliation, the legislative basis for this was fully clarified. No, Minister, that is not true, because there are grey areas within the ruffle clause: when do you fall into it? For example, I asked the Minister for Justice about this very thing: if there was a prostitute who wanted to buy a property and then rent out rooms to other prostitutes, if you would come under the ruffle clause. The Minister also replied to that question. There are a lot of grey areas within that. The only thing we are actually asking for is respect for the fact that people are different. They choose differently, and we do not necessarily all need to understand why they have made that choice. But there must be arranged relationships if you have chosen, for example, to sell sex. There the Minister would rather make himself a spokesperson for that view and say that the Minister knows best and knows how people should live their lives. That's just not the bourgeois attitude to it. That is not my view of it either. That is why we are just saying that this is a very, very soft proposal. So let us now set up a working group and look at: what is the legal framework that is right now? How do we ensure the best possible legal certainty for these people who have chosen this for their own eyes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101849	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101852	Mette Thiesen got exactly the answer from the Justice Department on this. Therefore, I have to say to the questioners: if you want us to have some other rules, you have to start telling us where it is you want us to have some other rules. You mean you have to be able to make money out of it? What the Minister for Justice replied to Mette Thiesen at the time was that in an equal community where no one is in charge of others and where no one serves on the prostitution of others, one can hire premises together, have a watchman, doorman, etc. What we guarantee them courage with the legislation we have today is exploitation and backers. That's why the cut is the way it is. And in the individual case it will be a concrete assessment that was the answer you received verbatim from the Minister of Justice ■ of whether it is an equal community, where no one is in charge of others and no one is in charge of others' prostitution. That is where we now have the fence posts in our legislation that are ready. That is why the question is whether you want to move those fence posts. It is honest if you want to, but then you have to say: we are not so worried about exploitation; we are not so worried about the backers; we are not so worried about the growth it could give in the number of prostitutes. It is an honest, fair political position to take, but then you have to stand by and say that that is what you want, instead of pretending that this is something that is caused by a lot of ambiguity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225101958	I have to remind the Minister not to use direct charges. I understand that this happens when the debate is committed and it is. Here you go to Mrs Mette Thiesen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225102010	Thank you so much. In this consultation we were informed that there are precisely grey areas and that there are precisely things on which the Minister himself says that it will be an individual concrete assessment and that there are in fact some that are going to get stuck here. I just think that this is a fundamental ideological difference between us: do you think that people who have actively and openly made their own choices and entered into this must have the opportunity to live their lives as they wish? Or is it thought, like the Minister, that the Minister knows best how to live their lives? What this motion for a resolution says is simply that we need to set up a working group. Why is the Minister so afraid that we will have more knowledge in this area? Why is the Minister so concerned that the legal basis can be concretely identified and perhaps moved some fence posts in recognition of the fact that some people choose differently, although perhaps the Minister does not understand why they choose differently?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225102104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225102105	The concrete legal basis is clear. It is both when we go all the way back and look at it when we decriminalized it. It is quite explicit that we believe that prostitution must continue to be combated not only by punishment, but also by the fact that the law does not mean that prostitution and support for women who live in prostitution are considered to be a legal profession. It's part of the legal basis we've been on for the more than 20 years we've had decriminalized this. And with regard to all the grey areas that have been asked, we have been able to get a very concrete and clear answer: these are not the legal grey areas. That is why I would just like people to join us and say: in fact, we do not think that we should be quite so concerned about exploitation by the backers; we think that there should be a wider framework in order to be able to rent premises for prostitution. For example, we are going to have to do something like this. Make up with the rule of renting hotel rooms? You have to be specific, because there aren't the grey areas that you claim to be. It is with open eyes that we have regulated prostitution as we do. You can disagree with that. It is, of course, a legal political position, but then you have to stand up for that position instead of making it that there are a lot of grey areas that are not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225102204	The next brief remark is to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225102208	Thank you very much. And thank you very much for the Minister's reply to what the government wants. Now this is the first time I have had to deal with this issue, as I am not on the Social and Internal Affairs Committee, nor have I been involved in the consultations, so I do not know much about what you have discussed before, but I know a great deal about prostitution. The Minister said that the Ministry of Social Affairs had given some money from the rate pool in relation to exit programmes etc., but the Minister then mentions Copenhagen, Aarhus and Odense. So some of what I want to ask the Minister is: what is being done to roll it out at national level? There are a lot of young people who come from some villages and go into town, and unfortunately they are kept in these big cities and perhaps also in the environment from which they come. How do you make sure it becomes a nationwide help for these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225102300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225102301	Thank you very much for the question and welcome to the field of Mrs Liselot Blixt, with whom I have had great pleasure in working in other contexts in the past. Yes, that is true, and I think that when we get the mapping that we get from VIVE, we will have a better basis, both in relation to the country-wide, but it is also a little in your question • the new forms that the prostitution takes, how much has moved over to digital communication, and that gives a completely different threat picture and a completely different vulnerability. So I think we should build on top of the exit package that was made last; I think we're going to do more and more. We need to learn from the efforts that are now, and there is something in what the questioner says, that the big cities are in a way a magnet for some of this. However, I am quite convinced that there is also a great deal of this that is rooted in rural areas, and we do not have that grasped with the exit package that has been made now. So I would be very interested to take a political discussion on that on the back of the survey.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225102356	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225102358	Then I would like to know when this VIVE report will come and how long it will take to set some things in motion if you know that there are women living in the province who are actually being kept in the environment. They go down with stress or other things and need help, and then it's hard to move home to the municipality you come from, because then you're cut off from getting the help you need. Isn't that something you want to look at before you start making long-term planning?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225102426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225102427	It is here in 2021 that VIVE expects the results to be there, and that also means that we will have a starting point for discussing this here when we have the reserve negotiations in the autumn as the latest one. I will, of course, start looking at it, and I am sure the questioner will, immediately the results are there. I am here with a description of the projects that have been given money, and I had it in the consultation, where, for good reasons, the questioner was not there. In addition to the concrete efforts in these four large municipalities, there is also some method development in it, and there we must of course take the methods and look at how we can get that knowledge rolled out, also to the other parts of the country and to a large extent also in rural areas, where there are problems with brothel and sexual exploitation, moreover, also to a large extent by foreign women.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225102516	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. If, despite the amount of paper, the Minister wants to prepare for the series of rapporteurs, then the first rapporteur in the chair is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225102550	Thank you. Dear Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be discussing a motion for a resolution to set up an inter-ministerial working group which has several objectives. First, it is proposed that the working group should clarify the legal framework for prostitution. It's interesting to see what it looks like. Secondly, it is proposed that the working group should make recommendations for improved efforts to ensure a way out of prostitution, including recommendations on the prevention of social problems, advice and offers of social support. In fact, we can see the sense of that too, because we believe that it is very necessary for us to lift people out of prostitution. That is why, as the Minister explained, I am very pleased to be able to say to the proposers that VIVE is, after all, in the process of examining the extent and forms of prostitution, the social problems of prostitution and the exit from prostitution. In addition, the working group is also proposed to have the aim of contributing to better conditions for selling sex, and here is the cardinal point, because it is extremely problematic to go that way. In fact, I think that in the past the Minister has explained very precisely, very clearly, why it is so wrong to go that way. Because we must not start liberalising or normalising prostitution. Instead, as I said, we need to look at how to lift people out of prostitution and also look at how to stop the approach. I would like to give some examples from everyday life to my colleagues, to the Danish Parliament. After the summer break, I got a call from an acquaintance. One of her relatives, a child who is not even in the early teens is captured by local bad criminal forces. So she is directly connected to a criminal environment in the province, and my acquaintances tell me how she and her family have repeatedly taken hold of the municipality, but that they do not experience the help that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also commented on to the minister earlier. Here her behavior has been followed by her phone, and there is very, very high suspicion of grey zone prostitution. The other day, I also spoke to Marlene on the phone. I know her from a DR broadcast, and maybe several of you have met her too. She has told about her life as a prostitute and also just told about the so-called free life she chose when she was younger. That's not how she sees her life today. She no longer thinks of herself, that she was happy and that she had chosen the prostitution herself. Because she has already been abused as a very young and very small woman when her mother took foreign men home from the bar, and she experienced all her childhood and youth that her father and his friends took care of her. Then she told me that she might as well get a bag of candy, and then she got what she needed. Today Marlene is on the other side of prostitution, and through an exit program in LivaRehab she has the courage and robustness to stop. But she still gets away to some extent challenged. She is challenged by the scars she has on her body and mind, and she is also challenged by the stigmatisation that she experiences in her new life during education and work. Both Save the Child, Children's Terms and LivaRehab and a large number of other organizations in this area report that the degree of violations, digital abuse, grooming, grey zone prostitution is increasing significantly. This is all something that does not just happen to vulnerable and vulnerable young people, but especially to them. And then I would like to read out a quote which I think is extremely sharp, by our Minister for Social Affairs, who has said this in the past: "Prostitution is basically the exploitation of women, which is often out of need and not out of desire. It's no coincidence that the happy whore is always mentioned in singular. Too many women struggle with a wide range of social problems when they enter the industry just to incur more scars on their body and soul. Many fall victim to violence and rape from customers and backers. We see women with physical, permanent damage, deep debt, abuse of alcohol or drugs, and the list can be continued. I couldn't agree more. I think it is incredibly sharp, and it is not only because I have the same party color, but I think that the minister hits it clean on the ball here. Marl's history, the young girl's history are good examples of how prostitution attracts criminal environments, vulnerable and vulnerable people and creates even more problems. So prostitution must be seen as a social problem and therefore also dealt with as such. We must continue to ensure better conditions so that people can get out of prostitution and we must offer treatment and support to those who have suffered and suffered harm. We have to help those in it, and we have to work hard to get people out. We can never equate prostitution and it is sensible and good, or say that it is an equal job, which the Minister has also been precise about. We have adopted various measures in the past to ensure continuous work on the exit of prostitution and grey-zone prostitution. We see that particularly grey-zone prostitution is a phenomenon which several organisations, as I said earlier, have pointed out is a problematic increase. So we still have to have a massive focus on this area, and I would like to acknowledge the proposers for that: we need to have a continuous focus on both those who are in it and those who are going out, but also look at how we stop the approach and how we work on not getting in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103206	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mrs Fatma Øktem from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103212	Thank you very much. And thank you to the rapporteur. It is good that the rapporteur says that this is a social problem. We fully agree that it is far, far along the way. And there are a lot of people who shouldn't be in it and need a hand out. It is also true that we need to look very closely at grey-zone prostitution. But I have a question for the rapporteur: will the rapporteur recognise that there are people who are in this for a period of time and who are losing it? There are people who choose themselves and who do not really see themselves as victims. Will the rapporteur acknowledge this? For the rapporteur's part, sharing experiences that the rapporteur knows about through some very detailed sometimes, I would say. But there are also some who would like to tell why they are in it, why they have chosen it. Does the rapporteur ever meet with those people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103320	Thank you very much for the question. It is true that I am a rapporteur in contact with practice. That is the way in which I have my political office. I think it is important for me to meet with all kinds of people, and yes, it is absolutely true that I have met with people who themselves experience it as the free choice. I have met with people who have had a clinic and who have made bondage, and I have met with people who have experienced themselves as the happy whore and who are on their way out. So that's right. What is quite significant in the experience I have is that when all the women I've met, who have been in prostitution for a long time, look retrospectively at their lives, they see themselves differently when they've grown older and lived for a while than when they were in the middle of it. So it is true that I have experienced women who have made it clear that they have experienced this for some time, but when they look at their lives afterwards, they do not agree with the rapporteur of the Left. But it is true that I have met with all kinds of people, including those who have the view of the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103431	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103433	Then the rapporteur should also know that for those who are in it and those who say they are in it because they want to, it is a choice they have made, and I can only respect that. Even if it is a choice I would not have made myself, I will respect what other people choose. You say: there is a grey area with regard to legislation. The Minister of Justice, even though the Minister of Social Affairs will not remember the part from the consultation, also acknowledged that there is a grey area. If those people do not feel that they can act in legislation where it is not clear, how can it be that social democracy will not help to clarify it? There is nothing in this resolution about anything else but going in and looking at how their security and security can be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103520	Two things: the day when the Left points to exactly what needs to be changed, the Social Democratic Party would like to take part in it. The day that comes to suggest where it is, you can take a look at it. However, I think that the rapporteur has done the same spin earlier with the Minister, put the same veil over and above what it really is about. Then bring it on! Then we can take a look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103546	The next brief remark is from Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103551	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions that the rapporteur would like to help look at how we can help people out of prostitution. That's quite fine for those who want it. After all, there are also those people who have made a conscious choice that they want to be in prostitution. I would really like to hear the rapporteur there, since they do not want to leave prostitution, what the rapporteur thinks about and will do to help guarantee them proper rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103628	I would like to ask, and I also forgot to ask the rapporteur of the Left, whether he also knew that questions were not asked the other way: have you met with some of the people I have met with? Have you spoken to the individual people in the quote I also read in my own speech, which I think the Minister of Social Affairs is really accurate about, namely why when we talk about the happy whore, we talk about her in singularity, and that all of those who work in Exit Prostitution, and who have themselves been prostitutes, have described themselves in a previous life. So this is about when you're exposed, you see, you look at things differently when you're in it. How else could you do that? If you're in the middle of violence and threats and having many clients in one day, how else can you look at your life? So the premise put forward by the rapporteur for Conservatives, I simply do not agree with the basics. Frankly, I believe that we should focus our efforts on stopping the approach and that we should work on exits. So it is simply a simple disagreement about how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103735	Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, but I am just saying again that I fully agree that the debate is very much about people, but the direct indictment does not go from Parliament's platform. And direct indictment is both when you use the word you, but also when you use the word I. That's how it is. And that applies to all debaters here. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel's second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103759	Thank you. Prostitution is not a recognised profession. That's why there aren't the same rights for these people. After all, they have to register, they have to pay taxes. Does the rapporteur not think that these people deserve proper conditions and proper rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103821	I think the Minister has answered that question. However, if the rapporteur for the Conservatives needs a second tour of the House, we can discuss it in committee. I think the key point is that it is a social perspective. When you listen to organisations working with it, the concern is that it is steadily increasing online and the grey zone is very serious. So I actually think this is really serious, and I would like to take part in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103854	The next brief remark is to Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225103859	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good speech and a lot of good points. I am also familiar with Marlene, whom the rapporteur mentioned, and will also mention her again. I'd like to hear about something. We are talking so much about the people who are selling sexual services, but it is quite absent from the debate that some people are actually buying those services, and as long as some people are buying, we also have a market to sell. The question is how conscious the buyers are that they are actually causing long-term harm to other people. At least we know from the previous study that it was not something that absorbs the buyers who go to prostitutes and buy sex in that way. It is not something that concerns them, whether it is people who have acted, whether they have chosen it or what it is like. What do the Social Democrats think about this regulation of demand?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104007	I have to take a concrete example, and then the rapporteurs over here can be a little irritated about it. But I was out seeing a project for dealing Nigerian women on Vesterbro and was with them on the street, and as we walked around I saw that there were a bunch of ordinary young men who were going home from the city when we still had to go away. They went in and bought two French hot dogs, and then they stood and laughed a little, and then they went into the backyard with one of the women in turn. It was an eye-opener for me that when ordinary young men as they seemed to be to me but I'm also being old-fashioned equate two French hot dogs with something that I know is so profoundly awful for those women, we have to look at what we should do. I doubt how we are going to do that, but I would like to take part in the debate and I think that we in the Committee on Social Affairs should take a look at it and look in particular at the VIVE report when it comes. But there is something about culture, in relation to how we view the purchase that is so harmful and where there is a discrepancy between those who buy and those who are quite a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104124	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104127	I am really glad to hear that, because buying sex in this way and being completely devoid of ideas about what it does to another person, that you do it, and that it is made into a culture and a gift that you can get for your 18th birthday or something, is a problem. We have a joint responsibility to signal, among other things. young people, there's a problem here and tell them: It's not just a joke what you're doing when you go in and buy yourselves for this. That is why I would like to hear: has the Social Democratic Party made any preconceptions about how we could attack this demand situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104212	No, I have to say we haven't. In fact, I think that relying on data and trying to get some more knowledge is essential, but it may also be that some experience from other countries can be taken advantage of. After all, some changes have been made around Europe, and you could be curious about what it looks like there. There is at least something that suggests that there is something about the idea that you get less crime from it. After all, it is important to keep an eye on the ball and to be sure that we will also have the exit strategy, but I would like to take part in the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104251	So I would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you very much for preparing for another rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Fatma Øktem. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104317	Thank you very much. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the New Citizens' Party. With the motion for a resolution, we propose the setting up of an inter-ministerial working group to clarify the legal framework for prostitution in Denmark. The results of the working group shall also include recommendations for improved action to ensure a way out of prostitution, including recommendations for the prevention of social problems, advice and offers of social support. The purpose of the working group is also that prostitutes in Denmark achieve better conditions and thus a safer environment to sell sex in. The purpose of setting up the working group is not to map out the current knowledge in the field and point to knowledge gaps, and it must identify the legal framework for prostitutes today and present new models of legislation. The Left believes that there is a lack of knowledge in this area. Today there is sparing knowledge about prostitution in Denmark. The knowledge we have is largely out of date. The most recent major survey in this area took place in 2011. The group of prostitutes in Denmark is very diverse and consists of women and men who sell sex for a shorter or longer period of their lives and have different reasons for it. When we sat in government, in January 2019 we set up an inter-ministerial working group to make recommendations on how to achieve a better balance between rights and duties for women and men in prostitution. The working group should also examine ways of improving the assistance of the authorities to those who would like to leave prostitution. As the Minister for Social Affairs said a moment ago, this was one of the first the Minister chose to abolish when she arrived, because the Minister chose to see only the area as a social problem; a social problem in which the prostitutes should, in the view of the Left, be a simplified way of looking at a rather complex area. So we call on the government to set up this working group to help the prostitutes as best they can. The Left takes the view that we must protect women better; we must protect the prostitutes better. Prostitution exists and it is time for clear rules to come in this area. For those who voluntarily sell sex, there must be a proper framework for work; for those who want to get out, prostitution must be easier to get out of. So, of course, the Left can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104648	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104654	One might be tempted to ask the rapporteur something proportional, i.e. how many people it is that have to live in incredible poverty and experience massive failures, violence, threats, be part of criminal networks before the Left's rapporteur will help to get on the path of exit, rather than keep pointing to diffuse, unfocused changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104743	That was an amazing level that Mrs Camilla Fabricius can bring down to this debate. I just stood here and told you that those who aren't supposed to be in prostitution have to get out. There are people for whom the primary problem is not prostitution, but it is abuse, it is failure, it is social problems. We recognize one hundred percent of them, and they need better help. We need to be better at getting them out. The group that Mrs Camilla Fabricius cannot get over her lips is the group that has chosen this for herself. And I'm a liberal. I am, so if anyone tells me that's what I've chosen, I respect it, even if it's decisions I could never dream of making. There you could turn it around and then ask Mrs Camilla Fabricius: does Mrs Camilla Fabricius not think that there are people who have chosen this for themselves? A question was asked as to whether we have been out to meet the socially vulnerable. There I can say yes calmly and confidently and resoundingly. I've also been walking the streets with those who are most at risk. I've been on those exit programs and followed them since 2011. So a resounding yes. That group is not the group we are primarily talking about, I would say to Mrs Camilla Fabricius. I am talking about those who are there and what they will do to improve their security, those which the Social Democrats apparently do not want to know at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104906	That is Mrs Camilla Fabricius again on the second point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104909	So when VIVE comes with its report and its response to the things we asked them to investigate, will the rapporteur and the Left help to look at even more measures and opportunities to also stop the approach to prostitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225104930	We have no need to recruit someone for prostitution. So, of course we will. We'll take a look at everything. We'd like that knowledge. We would also like a greater mapping. It's not one-sided we want to look at this. We'll take a broad look at it. But today we are talking about a group that is in it and that has difficulty acting in the legislative area where there is a grey area. Here we are proposing a working group which looks broadly not only at the wishes of the Minister of Social Affairs and Social Affairs that we should look only at areas where it is about exit. No, we admit there are others. There are also some who have chosen this for themselves, and we still want to help increase their security and security. But, of course, we're looking at everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105013	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105020	Thank you. As I hear the rapporteur in his speech, the Left wants to create a safer environment for those who are in prostitution. It is, in fact, a noble purpose, because it is a rather dangerous environment. In other words, it is an environment with a great deal of violence and threats, which is why it is also an argument that it is not an environment in which, like in any way whatsoever, we must support people. But I would like to hear what it is quite specifically for rules that the Left wants us to change and that could make it safer to be in an extremely dangerous environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105102	That is absolutely correct. At times it is a dangerous environment, but at other times it is not. I do not know whether the rapporteur has done so, and they are pointing out a few things. You also point out that, although the Minister believes that there are very clear rules and regulations, there is a grey area, there are misunderstandings and there is sometimes insecurity. This is exactly what we want with this resolution. I do not have the solutions to increase their security and security. I want some people who sit and know about this area, because after all, I'm just a politician and I don't know everything. So I want someone to know what they're talking about, but not least that you have the people who work with the area. At least that's what the minister doesn't have at all. They're the ones who work with these women. It is the women who have the resources and who are in what they say, of their own will. You're gonna have to sit at the table. So I'm not the one who has to bring it. What we are proposing here is that some people tell us where it is that we can do better. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105212	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105214	Well, I guess it's just because I haven't quite understood it. I've talked to a lot of people. I have been a social rapporteur for six years now, and this has been one of those with which I think I have been most concerned. But I still find it hard to understand where the misunderstandings are. Because at one point I was also in the delusion in relation to the fact that, for example, we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we were in a situation where we So in relation to these ambiguities, where is it still somebody left? It's like what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105259	It is, of course, with regard to what rights they have today; it may be with regard to late injuries. Well, how can we make it easier, better and more secure for them in general in society? When you listen to the people who work with prostitution, they have their concerns and they have their proposals. What we're asking for with this is to find out where it is we can go in and improve it. That's exactly it. What is it that we can do better for those who are in it? They're not going away. Although it is an insecure and dangerous environment, it does not disappear, by closing our eyes and saying: we wish this did not exist. It's still gone. And not everyone says yes, just because we make the exit packages better and better. Some people still want to be in the environment. We want this working party to go in and look at it as a whole. How do we make our exit packages better, and how do we also make it safer for those who are in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105401	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And thank you also for preparing for the next rapporteur, who is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blix. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105425	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for a debate on prostitution. In this coronatid, I'm really glad Søren Brostrøm says that sex is healthy, because sex is fun, and sex is something that unites some people. And for some people, sex is also exciting, especially if you are going to have a customer and get paid for it, but it can also have some harmful effects. These may be women, who may be those who have been subjected to abuse, and many others. So I am very divided in relation to the proposal that lies here, because I do not really know what would be best or what this proposal and this committee would achieve. Because when I read the proposal, it says that it is to ensure proper conditions for prostitutes. And I am just thinking: that must be what the proposers really want: to ensure proper conditions for prostitutes. But will this committee not, as stated in the proposal, propose better hygiene, prevention, clean rooms, health insurance, health insurance and pensions? Wouldn't it make it a little more attractive to be a prostitute? Or should this be a proper program that could get people out of prostitution so that they could have a life under normal conditions with a regular job? I know the joys and sorrows of prostitution. I've had it close for years. I have family members, acquaintances, friends, men and women who have been prostitutes for so many years, and some still are. I have an acquaintance who was forced into prostitution by her boyfriend when she was quite young, and when she had given, he took the money from her. It's been many years, but she's still gone but of it. I remember a conversation with a dear acquaintance when she entered prostitution. She told me all the things she thought it would take to ensure proper relationships. She fought for brothels to be created so that you could feel more safe, so that hygiene was top, and so she was more aware of who she was going to serve. She was happy to be able to choose her own customers, but in the same way as in the rest of the labour market there were periods during the year when there was little economy. There were people who didn't have so much money in January and February, and therefore they didn't have as many clients as the prostitute, and she couldn't just go to her unemployment fund and get money; so she wanted it too. Because in these months she had to cross her own borders and take some of the men she would normally say no to. She also had to do things with these men, who for her were cross-border. And that's why she wanted proper relationships for her profession. I nodded and understood, and I completely agreed with her that that should be corrected. But a few years later I visited her in the psychiatric ward... I would like to deal with it in committee and ask the Minister some questions, because something needs to be done, but I do not want us to make it more attractive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105829	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a wish for a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It is first Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105838	I would have liked to say a few words about this, just a little while before I could see that the rapporteur was very concerned, so I hope that it is okay for me to ask a question anyway, otherwise the rapporteur will have to say to me that I fully respect it. In fact, I was also quite touched by the rapporteur's speech, and I really think that it tells a great deal about the complexity in this area and that this issue of volunteering is a difficult one. That is also why I was wondering if perhaps the rapporteur could and would share a little more thoughts about this with what we should be thinking about this about being in it voluntarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225105924	Well, there are a lot of prostitutes who start voluntarily. They do it because it's exciting, you do it when you're young, you think it's funny. But as I also told you, there are just some things that make you get pushed into it. Could it help if we had an unemployment insurance scheme that is difficult to say, because there are also times when you go beyond certain limits. I wanted him to live with me, but I could not, because there was no programme in the municipality in which I live, and that is why I think we need to look at the country-wide. Here we were with someone who had become a homeless addict and who didn't have cocaine to take more men in a month. So some problems need to be solved. And those who want to be prostitutes must be allowed to do so. It's their own body, and they can take money for it, but to start making it more attractive I don't want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225110015	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225110018	Like the rapporteur for the SF, I found the rapporteur's speech very touching. It also shows how important it is that this Parliament is made up of incredibly many different kinds of people with many different kinds of angles, so thank you very much for that. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether she can say a little more about the spread and nature of what it is like in relation to the whole of Denmark, and I know the rapporteur is also concerned about this in relation to other angles, and the fact that the nature of exposure is different in different parts of Denmark. Could the rapporteur say a little more about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225110106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225110110	This is an area which I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that we need to look at. I'm looking forward to a VIVE report. I also hope that a report can be drawn up in relation to the fact that you are actually looking at this area, because there are many different areas when we talk about sex work, prostitution, selling yourself, selling something online and what else we see. And there's a difference between how far out it gets in villages. It's not just a big city phenomenon. There are a lot of social things in front of us, so this is an area that I hope we will address more and, of course, also look at. And if you see some things where it should be done more safely, then I think it would be a good idea; we just have to be careful that we don't make it attractive and easy to get to, because it's easy money to make, but it's really hard to get out of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225110156	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and the next rapporteur has already been prepared. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225110207	Thank you to the Conservative, the Left, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance for putting an important social policy issue on the agenda with this motion for a resolution. Prostitution is a social problem for many, and it has major consequences for the women who are mostly in it. The resolution has been postponed a few times for various reasons, but now we can finally deal with it. A few years ago I met the same woman, Marlene, whom Mrs Camilla Fabricius also mentioned in her speech. I actually met her in her capacity as Wonderful Alice because, together with Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, I participated in the program "Long from Castle." Adventure Alice was chosen by Danmarks Radio to represent the women who just want to have some orderly relationships, because they themselves have voluntarily chosen to be in it. Then it was so that after that broadcast had been admitted, it didn't take many days until I got a call from no longer Adventure Alice, but Marlene, where she said to me: Trine, I want out of this; I've tried many times before, but now it has to be. She had then been in prostitution most of her life and was only 11 years old when she first received money for sexual services and learned that this was the way she could be appreciated and make quick money. Marlene told me about her struggle out of prostitution after 35 years and how, through the support of a good exit program, she found a way out of prostitution. Only when she got out of prostitution did she really find out how much damage it had caused her, both physically and psychologically. Today she has moved on and in education and uses her experience to tell others about a life that not many know about. Marl's story is important because it is unfortunately similar to that of many others. It is a problem that we accept at all that we in Denmark can buy ourselves for sexual services, because when we allow it, we accept at the same time the premise that sex is a commodity. It sends wrong signals to children and young people that it is okay to buy themselves for sexual satisfaction from another person, no matter what physical and psychological consequences it may have for the other person. In the SF, we believe that, as has happened in Sweden, Norway, Northern Ireland and France, the purchase of sex should be banned, not in order to criminalise the prostitutes, but in order to alleviate the social problem of prostitution, by reducing demand. We should do much more to prevent young people from moving into the prostitution environment and, at the same time, to strengthen help to get out of the environment. Prevention, help and counselling are important factors. At the moment, we should get something done about the social media that conveys sugardating. Therefore, SF also works to get the law on ruffle updated, so it is considered a ruffle to make money organizing trade between two parties on a website. The motion for a resolution calls for the setting up of a working group for, inter alia: to improve the efforts of people in prostitution and those who want out of it and to clarify the legal framework for prostitution. In the SF we do not believe that it is a working group that is needed. We would like to have more up-to-date knowledge about the area, because it is not relevant and we would like to improve our efforts. But we think we can do this in other ways and initiatives have already been launched. There are, for example: the exit package that we have jointly adopted and is already being prepared in the forthcoming mapping and analysis of prostitution in Denmark from VIVE relevant information, which can be used to develop improved interventions for people who wish to leave prostitution, and to provide better knowledge about the extent of prostitution as well as the living conditions and health of persons in prostitution. I think we have already received answers to the legal questions, which were also in the course of the consultation. But I also feel that if there are more questions of doubt, and I understand the authors of the motion for a resolution, I think we should have answers to those questions. That is why I would actually like to call on the Minister to have a complete comprehensive note drawn up, perhaps on the basis of the reply that was made, but where, before that answer comes, we might also bring together the other questions, as there may be, about the legal grey areas, if you think there is. That is why the SF does not support the motion for a resolution to set up a new working group. When we have the mapping from VIVE, we must instead make concrete efforts to help people in and out of prostitution and to limit demand. I believe that we need to draw up this in the context of a new action plan against trafficking in human beings, because the fact is that there are also a great many of those who are in prostitution who are trafficking women. And I should like to welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they cannot support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225110813	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Fatma Øktem from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225110818	Thank you very much. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good rapporteur's speech on a proper note, because we may have a bit of ideological disagreement here. So thank you for that. I fully agree with the rapporteur that there are so many sad fates among those who are in prostitution; there are so many people who really get wounds deep, deep inside the soul by selling sex. But those who should not be there, those who want out, but lack the hand, the little push, the understanding, the warm arms, we must be far, far better at helping than we are today. When I take the floor, it is not just to congratulate the rapporteur, but also because the rapporteur mentioned that the SF wanted to criminalise the purchase of sex. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur knows whether, in the countries where prostitution has been criminalised, there is any evidence that it has gone the right way; because what I saw when I was in Sweden and Norway and visited some of the organisations was • and it is true that the prostitutes have been removed from the streets • that the insecurity and insecurity of those who remain in prostitution is far, far greater than what it was then. And you don't really think that buying sex has fallen. So that's the way SF wants to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225110957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111000	In fact, I think it is one of the topics that I would like to see us digging into together, because I also hear some other things. I am told, among other things, that it has changed the attitude of young men in particular to go to a woman and buy themselves for sex, i.e. that it has actually had a change of attitude. I have also heard that in those countries where we have gone the opposite way and have just liberalised it and said that we recognise it as a profession, and people have to choose what they want, we have seen falling prices because demand has grown even more. We have seen an industrialization of sex work, and we have seen an increase in violence and rape. Perhaps this is one of the things we could put ourselves together on, that is to say, to find out what experience has been gained in the countries where the Nordic model has been used, most recently in France, which has come with the • but also what experience has been gained in the countries where you have gone the opposite way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111105	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111108	Thank you very much. Well, I can only sign for that, because I don't think we can get enough knowledge, especially when it comes to a group that is so stigmatised in one way or another. And then I can reply by saying that I hear just about increasing violence and rapes in countries where buying sex is criminalised, because there you cannot go to the authorities because you are, like, an accomplice when it is the case that you have now sold your body. Then it is harder for the prostitute to go to the police and say that she has been raped or that she has been subjected to violence. And that's how we can keep doing it. But the solution could be to get some knowledge from the outside. So that is at least one of the things I would like to sign for from here and which I think is a very fine proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111155	Thank you. And then just a statement that it still surprises me that, over the many years I have been taking part in this debate, no one is interested in the buyers. Well, we have to look at what that is, especially at women, as it reflects. We only deal with those who sell sex. We are closing our eyes to the fact that some people seem to think that it is right to commit the violence that is buying themselves for sexual services, for whatever reason people have to be in prostitution, for buyers are not interested in whether it is voluntary or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111233	Then there is a brief comment on the rapporteur from Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111240	Thank you. I take the floor because the rapporteur mentions that the SF wants to criminalise it, and I would really like to hear if the rapporteur does not have a concern that these people will then be pushed even more into the dark if I have to follow the SF's thinking in relation to it being illegal. Now we know that prostitution has existed, I do not know many years back, so I find it difficult to see that this is the right solution. And I would really like to know if the rapporteur does not have a concern and then what you think about it in relation to the fact that you might be able to help push these people even more into the dark and that it might get even worse for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111334	That is an argument I have heard before, of course, and it is always an important issue to have in mind when criminalising something, even if you create something more hidden. But what I also hear from the Nordic countries, which are the longest in history, is that there are in fact more people who report violence and rape or minor abuse that they would not normally have reported, because now they can report it just that someone has been present is enough to report it, whereas the burden of proof that it is a rape, when it is not illegal to buy sex, is much more difficult to bring about with the legal situation that we have today. But if it were forbidden to go, one would already have broken the law when one entered the room.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111434	Well, I could just have a concern that it really gets worse because it's going to happen in secret, so these backers get better opportunities to still be the backers of the prostitutes. The last thing I want to say is actually recognition of the fact that the rapporteur mentions sugardating. I very much agree and have also been very concerned that this is certainly something that we should do something about when we speak children and young people under the age of 18, in other words to ensure that they do not end up in sugardating and that they should be aware of what is going on online. So I would just like to acknowledge and say that I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111526	I would also like to acknowledge this for the other way, because I know that the Conservative rapporteur has been concerned about this, in other words precisely with the young people, and I think we should continue with that work. And I hope that the Conservatives will help us to get, what can be said, adjusted to the law, so that communicating and earning money from conveying Sugardating can be part of the ruffle clause that we are happy to have because, after all, it protects us from exploitation by backers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111557	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the SF rapporteur. Could the rapporteur please prepare for the next speaker? The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Vinther. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111621	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Being a prostitute is not a choice of lust, but of necessity, and prostitution is a social problem, as well as bringing great personal and human costs. The Radical Left cannot therefore support the proposal, which we see as a step towards genuine legalisation of prostitution as a profession, but we do not believe that prohibition is the way either. We here seen, among other things. in Sweden, that instead it gives even more insecure conditions to the prostitutes and makes it more difficult to give the help that needs to be provided, because it now has to be done in secret. The balance that exists at present, where it is not illegal for the individual to be a prostitute, but illegal for others to make money from prostitution, we think that is sensible. On the other hand, we can support the profound desire in the proposal to look at how we can ensure that prostitutes receive help, advice, care and care. That is how I read at least the second part of the proposal. Social work in relation to prostitutes is important and, fortunately, there are a number of agreements that have been concluded, focusing on how we can ensure the right help, support and care for prostitutes, and we have secured in the social reserve funds for exit packages for prostitutes, and there are means to ensure current and new knowledge in this area, and that is useful because we need to know what we are talking about. As I said, we cannot support the proposal, but we will actively engage in work based on knowledge to ensure that prostitutes get easier by leaving a life of prostitutes and can receive support, advice and care.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111750	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111757	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I just got a little curious about something. Now the rapporteur must bear with me if I am not quoting 100% correctly but, as I remember, the rapporteur said: prostitution is not something that is chosen out of desire but out of need. I would just like to hear the basis on which this is based by the rapporteur and whether the rapporteur and the Radical Left do not recognise that there are indeed some women who choose it here with open eyes for voluntary and not out of need, but out of desire.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111835	Thank you. I think there are some who choose it voluntarily, but I don't think you choose it for pleasure. I believe that prostitution is the expression of people who need to raise money, establish relationships, create other things and therefore embark on prostitution. In contrast, it can be said that it is all-overshadowing, and I hope the rapporteur agrees with me on this, that prostitutes are not out of pleasure, but out of need, and that is what we must focus on. We must focus on the fact that there is a way out of prostitution, and I think that should be the focal point of the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111906	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225111910	[Sound emission]... we are in complete agreement on that. There is what the Minister also mentioned, about traded women, and there we all agree that it is terrible and terrible and that something needs to be done about it. We also agree with what I believe the rapporteur from the SF mentioned, namely the 11-year-old, who has had a terrible process and who, in a very vulnerable situation, learns that some recognition can be obtained in this way. We don't even disagree about those things and that there may be social problems there. But there is also one group that I think is being forgotten in this debate, and so it is some adult strong women who choose this for themselves. It may be that you do not understand the background to their life choices, but we do not necessarily always have to understand that in order to recognise that there are those who choose to live in this way. Does the rapporteur not recognise that there will be some in that group in this area as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112006	I recognise that there are many reasons why women, as it is primarily, are throwing themselves into prostitution, but we are not really changing that by opening up a path to real legalisation of it as a profession. The women who are now prostitutes may be so without it being illegal, but in return they also have the opportunity to get support, help and care to get out of it if they need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112025	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Since the Enhedslisten has already been welcomed, I can now give the floor to Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens, since the Conservatives are the authors of the motion and therefore only come to the end of the rapporteur's list. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112106	Today's debate has been very good, but it has also been characterised by ideology, and in general we may just look at this very differently. I personally find it very difficult to understand that you choose a life as a prostitute, but I do not need to understand all life choices made by the Danes either, because I recognise that this is their choice. And I think that is what is fundamental in this whole debate. I was seeing some of these things from the consultation we were in, among other things. The Minister for Justice and also the Minister for Social Affairs, and one of the things that I, among other things, have to say. Even asked, was when, if several prostitutes joined together in a community, we hit the ruffle clause, when it is like you hit it. What the Minister said was that it should be an equal community and that there should not be this backman. But there are these problems in that if, for example, there is a prostitute who has a property and who wants to rent out rooms, if you are to be able to keep the property, if you are to be able to ensure different things, hygiene and everything else, it will most likely automatically come under the ruffle paragraph, because then you will make money on those who rent in. So there are these grey areas in this legislation. It is true, as the Minister says, that it is an individual assessment, but there are some areas where it can at least be really difficult, what we hear from those who are out there, to find out what it is specifically they must and what they must not. That's what this whole debate is all about. It's not about us having to decide today that we're making the legislation this way, or we're doing it this way, because there's a lot of different opinions on that. What we are talking about today is that we need to identify specifically what kind of legal framework there is for the sale of sex, and that is basically just that. I don't think any of us in here are sitting here thinking it's a good idea for women to be traded. At least I don't do that myself, because I think it's terrible. I don't think it's a good idea for a young person, as mentioned earlier, i.e. this 11-year-old girl with other social problems, perhaps also mental problems, emotional problems, to get into this. But in relation to this group, which is actively choosing something for which we other certainly do not understand why they have chosen, we must recognise that it is a choice of life that they have taken, and therefore we must also ensure that they have proper relations. I think that can only be supported, and that is why I think this working group is a very good idea. Then you can look at the results of the work of the working group afterwards and then look at whether there are some fence posts that need to be moved. I actually think I could see that the fence posts were moved a little bit in this area, but we're not gonna find out unless we have this working group that uncovers this. So it's supposed to be the words from here. Basically, for me, this is about respect for other people, respect for other people's choice of way of life and respect for the fact that you do not need as a human being, including a politician, to understand the life choices of all other people, but respect that this is how they have chosen to live their lives and therefore also ensure that they can have orderly relationships. That is why, of course, we are also partners of this proposal and would like to have this working group set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112520	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112525	Thank you. In fact, I think it is quite an interesting debate today, precisely because it is ideological. And my question is also a little over there, because it's about who it is you're doing politics for. So, do you make politics for a small, supposedly existing group of women who actively choose this for, or do you make politics for the incredibly many who are there for all kinds of reasons, whether they are traded or are • what can you say is pressured by the background they have, or financial pressure, or whatever it may be? That is why there may be ideological differences. But it is in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, and it is the social rapporteurs who are dealing with it, and at least I consider my task as a social rapporteur to be actually making policy for those who are most vulnerable, and not for those who have chosen a life with which they are satisfied, by the way. But I would really like to hear: who is New Citizen policy-making in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112634	Hopefully things aren't black and white. I actually had a hope that SF agreed with me that this has many different aspects, and I actually think I tried to get into my rapporteur's speech too. But we are not in favour of destroying it in this way for someone who has made a conscious choice. We don't. I think all the other things have been framed. As I started by saying, this isn't really about us deciding whether we should have changed section 233, i.e. the ruffle paragraph, or whether we should have changed something else. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about setting up a working group to ensure that we have a proper basis for knowing whether these legal fence posts in this area are as they should be. We all agree that it is awful about traded women and children and young people who are being forced into it. It is a terrible thing, we agree on that, but there are some people who are making a conscious choice and they should not be affected by this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112730	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112733	I tried to ask the rapporteur of the Left the same question, and now I will also try with the rapporteur of the new citizens. What is it besides what the Ministry of Justice has already replied to, which is unclear? What kind of basis are we missing in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112754	When we can see that there are strong women who actively and with open eyes... one of them was actually for the consultation, I don't know if you talked to her, she was sitting down at the back... has chosen this for, and when they say themselves that they think there are some problems in relation to their legal situation, I think we should actually take it seriously. I have no idea that I know all about how and how it should be organized in terms of prostitution. I think we owe it to each other to set up a working group to examine this with an open mind without having an opinion on it in advance. Now I know that the SF and New Citizens at least in this area is quite disagreeable, and that is the way it is, but let us examine it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112841	The next brief remark is from Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112845	Thank you. I would just like to ask what are the current rules that are destroying it for those who may have made a free choice. And what is it in the current rules that hit them? If we stick to the fact that this is what New Citizens' Social Policy is all about, what is it in the current rules that affects them? I'm gonna be a little curious about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225112921	Thank you for the question. Now, unfortunately, the rapporteur is guilty of hitting it as if the whole of the social policy of the New Citizen is about prostitution and the right to it or not. I can reassure the rapporteur by not being right. We have among other things. also an excellent disability policy, where it would be very nice if the Social Democratic Party supported, for example, getting the disability area out of the municipalities. That's what it is. Let's just leave it alone. It is, in fact, a question of providing a proper overview of what legal rights are. I have said from the start that I am very open to looking at whether there are some things that need to be moved on, so that those who have chosen this with open eyes can have better conditions than they do today. So there are just some issues and I have mentioned some of them myself in my rapporteur's speech and some things they experience that are really difficult for them to understand. And there I think it is quite fair to set up a working group and try to clarify this. Then some things were mentioned by one of the former rapporteurs, who would probably come up, about health insurance and all sorts of other things: fine with me, that we dig it out, and then we have to take a political position on how the fence posts should stand. But I cannot understand why we are opposed to a working group being set up to investigate whether there is anything we can do better. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225113036	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225113040	I am trying again: what are the current rules that affect the target group identified by the rapporteur for the new citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225113047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225113050	Well, I mentioned it in my rapporteur's speech. I simply cannot understand why, for example. I'm gonna go under the ruffle paragrapher when you need to rent out to someone else. Well, there are some things here that I think should be clarified. Then I might think it's a rather strange approach to it that you don't want to have things examined when those who have these problems every day say themselves that there are some things they think are skewed in relation to their legal position in relation to this, how they organize their lives and how they can shape their lives. There are some uncertainties. Then I think it makes quite good sense to clarify that. In any case, we are always in favour of providing a proper basis for political decisions. It may well be that the rapporteur does not agree with us, but that must then be what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225113136	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. If the rapporteur would be kind enough to prepare for the next speaker, and that is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225113206	Thank you for the floor. I am glad that we finally have the opportunity to debate this important issue today. In the Conservative People's Party, we have long wanted to improve the conditions for prostitutes, because women are selling sex in an uncertain environment. That is why we are proposing in the motion for a resolution here that a working group be set up to identify current knowledge in this area and point to knowledge gaps, to identify the legal framework for prostitution today and to present new models of legislation to ensure a better balance between rights and obligations in the field of prostitution. We can quickly agree that there are no parents in Denmark who want their children to end up as a prostitute. But that is why the prostitutes in Denmark must have proper relationships. They should not find themselves in a legal grey area where crime, insecurity and stigmatisation are part of everyday life. And from that very point of view, in January 2019, the then VLAK government set up an inter-ministerial working group to investigate how to improve conditions for prostitutes. It was planned that the working group should report their work in the third quarter of 2019. In October 2019, to my great regret, I read in Politiken that the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior had closed the inter-ministerial working group on prostitution with the explanatory statement that the former government of VLAK on improving the working conditions of the country's prostitutes was apparently fundamentally wrong. The reality is that prostitution exists and is not criminalised in Denmark, even though the Minister of Social Affairs does not like it. Of course, when the government wants the tax payments of the prostitutes, some rights should also be included. As it is today, prostitution is in a legal grey area, and by keeping the prostitutes in the grey area, the government and the minister are helping to push them all the way out into the dark and helping to make money, as the prostitutes have to go to them. No one can protect them from violence and everything associated with the criminal underworld. That is why we simply believe that we need to do something for these women. A committee was supposed to help us, among other things. with experience from abroad, to make us wiser on how we can help women. That is why we propose in the motion for a resolution here that the government be required to take the necessary steps to ensure that prostitutes in Denmark gain better rights and thus a safer environment to sell sex in. The government is required to set up an inter-ministerial working group which, on the basis of experience from abroad, will present different models of how prostitutes can be ensured in the future more decent conditions. The results of the working group shall include recommendations for improved action to ensure a way out of prostitution, including recommendations on the prevention of social problems, advice and offers of social support. However, it is important for me to stress clearly that the recommendations are not intended to ensure that persons who sell sex on legal terms and thus pay income tax achieve a degree of security and rights that they simply deserve. It must support and ensure a easier and faster way out of prostitution. I do not understand how one can disagree that prostitutes in Denmark should have better conditions and thus a safer environment to sell sex in. That is why I would like to look forward to the recommendations of the working group here, which should include proposals for possible legislative changes that can be implemented so as to ensure a better balance between rights and obligations in the field of prostitution. By creating a safety net which is not there at all today, one will give it calmness and help to get to a process where one gets away from prostitution if one wants to. We have an obligation to help these vulnerable people. Finally, I would like to thank the parties that have helped to table this resolution and, on the part of the Conservatives, I hope that all parties in the Folketing will support the resolution so that we can examine how we can improve the conditions for the prostitutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225113733	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225113737	Thank you. If we are to move forward a little more constructively in relation to the committee procedure, we need to know some things. I'm really concerned about how we can learn more about this, and there is no one who doesn't want to have knowledge, and that's why WIVE is doing this great study, which I look forward to seeing very much what it says. But if we are to move forward on the basis of the answers we have already received from the Ministry of Justice, what are the specific rights that the proposers want us to examine in concrete terms? And what does it mean in concrete terms when you say that you want to have proper relationships? Because I think that is what we need to know if we are going to make progress in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225113824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225113827	Thank you. Thank you for a very constructive question. I would very much like to discuss it further in committee. I'm thinking, among other things. is about rights such as unemployment insurance schemes, about being able to hire guards in relation to this grey area and, at the very least, about being able to track down where those people who need help to get out of prostitution are. There are, in fact, five dots in the motion for a resolution in which some areas have actually been mentioned, which I think we should discuss in committee, and I would be pleased if the SF would be constructive in that we have a discussion on it and have some more knowledge about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225113915	Thank you. Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225113919	What I am just looking for is, of course, that I think we, as a Parliament, should have answers to the questions that we may have. I think we've got an answer to this with insurance and, in fact, with security. The Minister also said in his speech that there is nothing wrong with going together to hire a guard if the guard does not make money from the prostitution that is there. And then I just have one more question. New citizens mentioned the example of buying a property. Conservatives' rapporteur says they are not interested in industrialising this. If you buy a ten-room property you can rent out, is it industrial prostitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225113958	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225114001	Now it's hard for me to say exactly where the border is, but at least it's not the idea with this working group that we're going to industrialize prostitution in Denmark. In fact, the idea of the working group is that we should have some more knowledge so that we can act both in relation to those who want to get out of prostitution, but in fact also ensure those people who have actually made a conscious choice about being in prostitution, some decent conditions and some decent rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225114034	Thank you. Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225114040	Thank you for that and thank you for a very committed rapporteur speech and for the fact that the Conservative People's Party always has a look at this. One of the things I know is that the rapporteur and the Conservative People's Party are also very concerned about sugardating or grey zone prostitution. A response I have received here during our debate from some of those who deal with abuse, cross-border behaviour and such things is very much about this, when it is that we see the border, that is, the smooth transition: when is something seen as a free choice, and when is it going to be something else? And what are some very serious genes that then lie in it? Could the rapporteur try to say a little more about where the Conservative People's Party stands in relation to the work on grey-zone prostitution? And if I can do a little more, I would like to say that it is also a question of whether it is not appropriate for us to discuss when the VIVE report comes, what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225114144	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225114149	Thank you to the rapporteur for some good questions. In relation to Sugardating, as is happening today, there is also a grey area, and some of what I am concerned about is at least protecting children and young people under the age of 18 from going into sugardating. And there I am very concerned that we are trying to find solutions to how we can simply avoid it. It can be both in relation to the pages used by young people, and in some way you verify that you are 18 years old, so it is not just a field you have to cross off, and then you are on the side, and then you are on the side. It may also be in relation to advertising, which is targeted at children and young people under the age of 18, for sugardating and, indeed, several different areas. I think it is important that we look at and have a discussion on how we can take action to protect children and young people. And when you are 18 years old, you decide your own life and make good choices in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225114255	Camilla Fabricius, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225114257	Thank you. But then I can get a little preoccupied with the fact that some of the stories we have been given in this Chamber today are also about children and young people and about what children and young people are experiencing if they have an uncertain background, if they do not have good role models or adults, they can go to, or if they have an uncertain personality structure, where they are not actually fully aware of where their own borders are, because they have repeatedly been violated. So where is the limit of what free choice is, and what is it that the Conservative People's Party thinks we should do? I mean, when is prostitution, and when is something just kids and gray areas? Can you try to say a little more about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225114338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225114340	I do not think I fully understand the rapporteur's question. I can explain how we look at it. In other words, we are very concerned that we are taking action to protect children and young people from prostitution, and sugardating can be difficult for young people under the age of 18 to actually see through. It can be difficult to see through the long-term consequences of sugardating when you are young and under 18 years of age, and it can be a slippery path for you to end up in hardcore prostitution. We must protect young people under the age of 18 from this, and I am very concerned that we have just looked at some solutions in relation to it. It can be both in relation to the way it is done on the web, in relation to advertising and to these influencers, and what else is. There has been something that has been very active on, for example. Instagram, where it's kind of reached out to a lot of young people under the age of 18, and it's such things that I think it's really important that we get a look at and get something done about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225114443	Thank you. Then the debate is over, because no one else has asked to speak. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225114519	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225114528	Thank you, President. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Left for presenting the motion for a resolution, thereby focusing on the area of expropriation. Expropriation is characterised by being one of the most intrusive measures that the State can take against its citizens, and at the same time it is a legislative area that can be quite complex to navigate around for its citizens. It makes a quite reasonable demand that the legislation is both clear and comprehensible and, at the same time, gives citizens the legal certainty to which they are entitled when the State carries out expropriation in different contexts. That is why I am pleased to have the opportunity to discuss the subject and, in the same vein, to raise a bit of a veil on the government's plans in this area. I note that the comments on the motion for a resolution refer to the 2018 report by the Committee on Expropriation on expropriation under the law of plans and the recommendations of the committee that have not yet been implemented, and I would like to start by addressing them. The Left therefore proposes that a simplified complaint procedure should be established by expropriation and that the procedural rules on expropriation, compensation, conservation and compensation should be brought together in a new procedural law. Both proposals are specific recommendations from the Committee on Expropriation, and these are recommendations that I fully endorse. The Ministry of Transport is currently completing a bill to implement exactly those recommendations, and I had the opportunity earlier this year to present the Transport Committee with the overall content of the draft law. I am not going to go into the individual details of the content of the draft law now, but I would say that the intention of the draft law is precisely to increase the legal certainty of citizens by creating a simpler and, above all, more transparent system in matters of municipal expropriation. I shall by no means take credit for this work when the project was launched under the former government. I therefore hope that broad support for the bill can be obtained when it is planned to be presented in the forthcoming Assembly. It is also clear that, in addition to the involvement that has already taken place by the Committee on Transport, I also imagine that there will be further involvement, towards the coming assembly of parliaments. The motion for a resolution here also contains concrete proposals which were not part of the recommendations of the Committee on Expropriation. First of all, the observations made in the motion for a resolution state that it must be a requirement for public authorities to investigate, prove and describe the impact of intervention on private citizens and businesses. It is a requirement that is obviously difficult to disagree with, and fortunately it is the case that there is already in force legislation a process of how an expropriation should proceed, including both the prelude to the expropriation and the execution of the expropriation itself. In the State field, prior to an expropriation, an inspection business is to be held where the consequences of the planned expropriation are presented to the individual. As a prelude to the inspection business, overview plans shall be publicly available and, as far as possible, directly informed citizens and businesses concerned. In addition, the installation authority very often launches a thorough and comprehensive communication strategy and public dialogue on the impact of the project long before the expropriations themselves. In general, the construction authorities attach great importance to informing citizens from the outset about the nature and impact of the project. For someone who has himself tried to stand at the receiving end of this kind of information, I must say that my own experience has been that it is also good and competent for the state authorities, although it has to be said that it is an experience that is far back in time for me. In the municipal area, the same rules apply, and I would add that one of the recommendations of the Committee on Expropriation was to ensure the early involvement of citizens when municipalities expropriate according to the law of plan. This was done by the former government in order to incorporate into an amendment to the Planning Act adopted in 2018. In short, I believe that the legislation on the practice of the authorities already meets today the requirements for investigations and descriptions of the consequences of an expropriation that the Left puts forward. However, if the Left has concrete proposals for improvements, it is clear that I am very happy to listen to it. Secondly, the Left proposes that uniform procedures should be established for intervention by public authorities with objective criteria as to when an intervention will lead to expropriation. I have to confess that it is a bit unclear to me what this proposal is exactly about. I should just like to remind you in silence that the question of when an infringement of property rights is an expression of expropriation is based solely on an interpretation of Article 73 of the Constitution, which means that legislators cannot bind the decisions of the courts on when an intervention is an expression of expropriation under Article 73 of the Constitution, and therefore, as I said, I find it difficult to see the purpose of this particular proposal. Finally, the Left proposes that full coverage of costs of legal and other expert assistance should be available in expropriation cases, with the exception that the remuneration may not exceed the corresponding cost for the public authority. That sounds like a sympathetic proposal, and when you read the proposal, you can get the impression that there is now no provision for any kind of compensation for the cost of expert assistance. However, this is not the case in any way. As the rules are in the State field today, the independent Commission of Expropriation may require the construction authorities to provide appropriate compensation to the citizen concerned for the necessary costs of expert assistance which the citizen has had in connection with an expropriation case. This means that the Commission makes a concrete and, above all, impartial assessment of what constitutes a necessary expenditure in each case. In this context, the Commission looks at how complex the matter is, what the citizen has to do for himself and what the expert has actually contributed. In other words, it is not a question of the citizen per year. The Commission's proposal is based on a proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM (88) 647 final - Doc. In fact, the Commissions are subject to the so-called 'official principle', which means, in short, that, within the framework of general administrative law, the Commissions are obliged and responsible to ensure that the cases are sufficiently informed before the order is given. In other words, the Commission is neither dependent on nor bound by the submissions and information which the parties to the proceedings may make. If I understand the Left's proposal correctly, we must allow full access to reimbursement for all expenditure on expert assistance, regardless of whether the independent Commission may consider that the assistance has not been relevant and regardless of the amount of assistance provided. I am aware, however, that the Left will limit access to the compensation so that it cannot, as a rule, exceed the corresponding costs of the construction authorities. It is unclear how that limit is to be drawn in practice, and I would say that the proposal will be a step in the wrong direction towards transforming our administrative tax commissions into court-like bodies. I do not think that this will do anything good either for the quality of decisions or for the length of proceedings. Finally, I find it difficult to see who will actually benefit from the proposal in addition, of course, to the legal profession. As I said at the outset, the government can support several parts of the motion for a resolution, and there is already a legislative proposal on the way to ensuring that more is done, but, as the resolution as a whole is before us, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225115428	Thank you. There are no immediate brief comments, but there is a debate that must continue and we shall continue to do so. It's first, sir. Thomas Jensen, Social Democrat, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225115456	Expropriations are rarely something that a citizen likes. This is often a major interference in the private property rights of citizens, which is why we must, of course, also listen to the citizens and design the legislation so that citizens are guaranteed transparent and proper processes of expropriation. At the same time, as decision-makers, we need to balance it with the need to make it possible to make initiatives and invest in infrastructure that can ensure good roads, railways, cycle paths and bridges for the general good, which make everyday life better, easier and more productive for citizens and businesses. However, that we have the task of guaranteeing the possibility of investing in infrastructure should be able to be balanced with good processes and good treatment for the citizens concerned. I am sure that over the years all members of parliament have been contacted by citizens who are frustrated, either before, during or after an expropriation case involving their real estate or land. I myself have received a number of inquiries before, during and after the construction of the Silkeborg motorway, and I have often had to agree with the citizens that the expropriation could have been done in a better way. It is therefore also gratifying that in recent years, over the middle of the Parliamentary Assembly, we have been working to make the process of expropriations much better for the citizens concerned, and we are not finished. I think that the work that has been done under the law of plans and the follow-up work that is under way in committee has been positive, and I look forward very much to the proposals that will emerge from it in the forthcoming assembly of parliaments. I see this motion for a resolution, on the one hand, as an ardent proposal to move forward quickly, and, on the other hand, as a parade proposal, because, as the Minister has clearly explained, some of the proposed measures are already guaranteed in the Constitution, while the other is being implemented and something else is being prepared for submission in the next Assembly. I look forward to the thorough work already going on in the Ministry to improve expropriations. I look forward to this proposal being put forward here in the Parliamentary Assembly, which is why I see no basis for us on the part of the Social Democrats to support this proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225115710	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225115743	I would like to thank the authors of this proposal, which obliges the government to call for negotiations with a view to bringing together, simplifying and uniform processes of intervention by public authorities in or around citizens' property and activities, in order to strengthen citizens' legal certainty. In the SF we are very much in favour of the intention of the proposal, as we, like the proposers, believe that it is quite essential for citizens and businesses to be properly informed about planned construction projects and about the impact the projects will have on the individual citizen. The proposers want to see public authorities investigating, elucidating and describing the impact of intervention on private citizens and businesses. In fact, we think that makes a great deal of sense. After all, the law ensures that a number of procedural requirements are already laid down for the organisation of the inspection business before the expropriation is carried out, and it may make good sense to look at whether we are doing it well enough today. We are happy to discuss whether new, concrete rules should be introduced as to what information should be given and when should be given in connection with a construction project. The proposers also want to establish more uniform processes with objective criteria as to when an intervention leads to expropriation, compensation or compensation. We think that sounds like a good idea. We may not be fully aware of what the proposers think may be more precise criteria, but we are also happy to take part in that discussion. Then the proposers want to establish a simplified complaint process by expropriation as described in the Expropriation Committee's report No. 1569 from June 2018 and implementation of the other recommendations of the Expropriation Committee, which have not yet been implemented. As we understand it, there is a legislative proposal for an expropriation law on the way from the government, which implements the work of the Committee on Expropriation, and we must at least expect it to address a number of the issues raised by the motion for a resolution here. So we look forward to a legislative proposal coming and discussing it, and if there are things that we do not think have come out clearly enough, or things in the Left's proposal that may still be relevant to consider, then we are certainly ready to look at it from the SF's side. However, we will not be supporting the proposal here today. In fact, we think it is right to await the government's proposal for an expropriation law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225120024	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225120101	Thank you for the floor and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. As a radical, of course, we are faced with a motion for a resolution in which the words 'better legal certainty' are included and Christmas lasts until Easter, as we know. It is quite true that ownership is inviolable, as one of the most important articles of the Constitution shows, namely Article 73. Therefore, there are detailed rules on the expropriation and tax treatment processes. There are everything from consultation deadlines to process-leading requirements, and that is the way it should be, and that is the way it is, of course. Expropriation may be necessary for the general good. It may be if certain bicycle paths or roads are to be built because they can be an important infrastructure in a community. The proposers themselves also address a number of additional situations where an expropriation may be relevant for the general good. Of course, in order for there to be no arbitrary abuse of innocent people, there must be the necessary legal certainty. Could the rules even be better? This certainly cannot be denied, on the contrary. It is therefore positive that a process is under way to revise the rules. I welcome the fact that several of the things that the Left is proposing are already happening or exist today, including, among other things, the fact that the consequences of intervention are of course being highlighted and that it is now possible to obtain expert assistance. I note that the proposers want more expenditure to be covered, but at the same time they say that it must not involve additional public expenditure. We have to see if we can learn more about how this is to be put into practice in the course of today's debate. Given that a process is already under way to regulate precisely the area addressed in the motion for a resolution, the Radical Left feels well covered by the very process that is already under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225120316	Thank you. There are no comments here either. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund. I don't think it was wiped off. I don't know if you want to wipe off. Rosa Lund, I can do that. That's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225120342	As the motion for a resolution shows, it is necessary for the public authorities to be able to intervene in the right of ownership when it is for the good of the Community. Sustainable energy, infrastructure, public health and climate protection are just some of the areas where it is an essential tool that we need to be able to use to ensure the best of society. And even though private property may not be what makes you think of Enhedslisten at once and that it should be one of our major concerns, I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to add that we think it was a huge mistake, when in this Parliament we decided to make a ghetto law which made it possible to sell out of general housing. Having said that, legal certainty for the citizen is something we are very concerned about in the Enhedslisten. That is why we are also pleased that the Left takes it into account in this proposal and draws attention to a problem relating to legal certainty. And if it is the case that we have a system today that is so opaque and difficult for citizens to navigate, then we would very much like to help simplify and clarify the process as long as we do not limit the possibility of expropriation when necessary. However, the proposal made by the Left that the cost of legal assistance should be covered as a citizen does not seem to me to be entirely coherent in simplifying the process. It is not intended to cost citizens money when the public decides, and it is whether we are talking about expropriation or general administrative decisions. Unfortunately, there are far too many examples of citizens getting caught up in the proceedings of public authorities, and we do not think that is good enough in the Enhedslisten, so there we are in complete agreement with the Left in the intention. We must ensure that our systems are able to survive without legal assistance and, if that is not possible, we must discuss how we finance, that citizens have the right to paid legal assistance in all administrative matters, not just those relating to property. I understand from today's debate, from the Minister and from the Social Democrat rapporteur that the government is already preparing a new legislative proposal in this area. That is why I find it rather difficult to see why this resolution is so urgent. Although the subject is relevant enough, the Minister has explained that the work being done has taken into account, firstly, many of the things that the Left is already travelling here and that there is a legislative proposal on the way. And we would like to wait until that bill comes before taking the debate, but that is why it is good that we have had it today. However, we cannot support the motion for a resolution that is here because we want to wait for the work that the government has set in motion. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225120657	Thank you. And then it's the next rapporteur, sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225120722	Thank you to the Left for tabling this resolution, which raises a very relevant and unfortunately topical issue. We have seen, most recently in the slaughter of the mink industry in Denmark, that it is unfortunately still important that we ensure the legal certainty of our citizens. As follows from the Constitution, private property is inviolable. This means that you have the right to full compensation if your property is expropriated by the state or the municipality. Private property is a crucial and central civil right in a liberal democracy. I think we can all agree on this, and that is precisely why we in the Conservative People's Party are also open to looking at whether we can strengthen citizens' legal certainty even more in this area. The question of compensation really talks into a larger agenda, namely the fact that we in Denmark are a little too often forgetting that the state is there for the citizens and not the other way around. Too many citizens in their meeting with the public see that they need a lot of resources in a complex system. The ambition of the Conservative People's Party is that we should have a system that would more express that the system is there for the citizens and not the other way around. We, the Conservatives, support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left and we are also in favour of what the Minister mentioned at the outset about the approach to the whole issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225120857	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225120916	I'll be brief. This motion for a resolution by the Left is a good bourgeois proposal that will strengthen citizens' legal certainty, and of course we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225120929	Thank you. Then we'll clean up a little bit. There's no L.A., so we're moving on to Mr. L.A. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225120949	Thank you, President. That is a good proposal that the Left has put forward. It is always nice to be able to discuss private property, both its protection and the need to intervene against it sometimes. This is the case in a modern society where basic infrastructure is needed. If roads are to be built, electricity cables or other large installations must be built, there may be situations where there is no way out of the way of interfering with private property rights, whether we like it or not. What, on the other hand, is extremely important in those situations is, as Section 73 of the Constitution also describes, that there is a full compensation for the person who might be affected. Now the Constitution, as we know it, is now an old Swede, many of the provisions go back as far as 1849 and the others are from 1953, which is why I and the Danish People's Party think that it makes very good sense, as the Left wishes here, to have a new debate on how we also organise ourselves in relation to planning in public space, how we take account of technological developments, etc. We are, for example. in the Danish People's Party continued to worry, I would almost say annoyed on behalf of the affected citizens, who have large parts of their private property reserved for building projects, which at best must be said to be relatively unclear when can be realized. I am thinking, of course, of the Ring 5 project down on Zealand, but I am also thinking of the army road in Sønderjyske, which will be very familiar to the Minister. We need the kind of ambiguity with which pilots and property owners can sit can quickly be brought to an end. And, of course, we also need to ensure that the rules governing expropriation also apply in relation to the other genes of an expropriative nature that modern society is at risk of offering. It can be smell nuisance, it can be noise nuisance from aircraft and landing sites, wind turbines, etc., where the interventions can be so violent that it disturbs in such a way that it prevents the citizen, who has so far been able to live on and use his property in peace and quiet, suddenly from having the opportunity to do so and perhaps still owns that piece of land, but de facto cannot live there anymore. It's also for us to see expropriation. So we are in favour of getting the negotiations going in order to update the rules here. I would like to say that this is a basic task. There are a lot of people around the country who experience genes from just large plants that are suddenly being planned. It can, for example, be done. be in North Zealand at the moment, where you want to have large cables down from the offshore windmills out at Hesselø, where you have to expropriate, and there we have to ensure that the rules that then also apply actually put those who are hit on their property in a proper way. However, as mentioned above, it can also be not entirely physical impairments like sound and other genes, and then we have to ensure that people are not just kept decade after decade, but that you can get clarification in relation to reservations. All this is, in fact, very welcome in our optics for a discussion, so we also hope that even though there has not exactly been a cheering cry from the left here, they may look a little differently at the private ownership at home in the party book • that, after all, negotiations will be called for soon so that we can make sure that those out there, who may not be so interested in how party books are written, but are interested in being able to use their property or at least get clarity about what is going to happen to their property, can be heard. We in the Danish People's Party believe this to be the most important thing, and that is why we intend to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225121409	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225121426	Thank you for the floor. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt actually caught the proposal very, very well. Some of the comments that have been from up here, including the Minister's comments, have focused a great deal on the expropriation part, but it is the case that there are a great many other elements that can seriously affect both private property, but also the well-being of citizens where they are now. I would like to thank you for a good debate today and I would like to thank the Minister for putting forward a legislative proposal to implement parts of the recommendations in the report of the Committee on Expropriation. We are very pleased about that, and we are very pleased with that. So far, so good. In the Left, however, we believe that we need to do more than what the Minister is proposing with the bill. In such a society as we now live in, we have common challenges. We also have common solutions, and with regard to the solutions we are working on, we are currently investing in renewable energy. We have a climate thing that's starting to push. Maybe it's time to build dikes and everything else. We are in the process of creating new infrastructure and so on. It's all something that affects people and where we're not necessarily going to expropriate, but where it has an impact. We think it is both good and necessary, at least when it comes to more investments, that we look at these things. We must also realise that when we solve our common problems, we do not all equal. Some solutions help the whole community, but some will pay a price. Right now we see, for example. In West Jutland, more wind turbines are being set up. We see it in mining, where neighbors get noise and other nuisances. We've seen it with planes to land down in Skrydstrup, and we see it with highways. We see it when we want to regulate, for example, agriculture, where we are working on something we call replacement-free regulation. What's it gonna be like? We've seen it in the mink case. If I take that with compensation-free regulation, it may well happen that it is fine for a farmer that he loses something quite over 10%. of his property, but in case he's so unlucky, it's 90 percent. Of the property, it's not very nice. We think we should take a look at that. So there are plenty of examples of projects that benefit society, but which cause relatively great discomfort to the individual in a given neighbourhood. In the Left, we think it is important that there is complete agreement on how the citizen or the company should face the system when it has happened. We need to agree on when we are expropriating, when we are replacing and when we are compensating and when it is compensation-free regulation. Morten Messerschmidt mentioned the finger plan, but we actually also have significant area reservations. Among other things: in Mr. Thomas Jensen's hinterland we had for 30 years area reservations for motorway stations, which very, very much gave rise to major challenges. It is the case that expropriations today can only take place on the basis of local plans, and that is where we have to say that today there are far-reaching interpretations also in municipal plans that matter to private property. We in the Left believe that we must fundamentally strengthen the legal certainty of citizens by creating clear processes and rules for intervention by public authorities. As a citizen, you need to have a degree of predictability in cases where the government interferes with or around your property. The system today is not perfect, and the Folketing has previously recognised the problem of setting up the Expropriation Committee. The government recognizes the problem when the Minister puts forward, as we have seen, a bill to resolve the problems. However, we have not seen the bill yet, but we have seen a draft of what it should be about. The Minister proposes to implement two recommendations of the Committee of Expropriation: a simplified and single model of municipal expropriation plus bringing together the procedural rules for expropriation into one law. We'd love to sign for that. It's important. When we have looked at those replacements and how people get compensation, it is sometimes the case that when you end up in a trial, it can actually be quite heavy costs that fall to the individual if you want to get your right, and there we think that in the practice we have seen there is no full compensation at all. We believe it is time to rethink a number of the processes, and this is not just about expropriation, but about all public intervention in and around the citizen's property. There is a simple lack of objective criteria as to when and how and at what cost public intervention should take place and what is reasonable. Not least, we also have to say: what is it that the individual must be able to tolerate? We also experience to a very large extent in Denmark right now that many say: not in my backyard! when we have to solve a social task. There we have to say, and also have a discussion about getting ready, that we also have to put up with something. We must bear in mind the consequences of intervention by public authorities. Public authorities need to solve problems for citizens and societies, but we also need to have a look at the problems we create in the process. We believe that, in future, we need to have a stronger look at how our decisions affect local communities and what opportunities we offer citizens to oppose them. It is also a question of having a discussion about what to tolerate as a citizen and what to put up with. I think that discussion is quite important because when our ancestors looked into the inviolability of ownership, there was not quite as much technology and influences as what we are experiencing today. We need to start the green transition. We need climate protection, but it also means that we are affected in ways we have not experienced before. Left doesn't have the recipe. We just want to have negotiations It may well be that everyone here does not agree on where the problems are and how we solve them, but we hope we can agree that we need to create a better system than we have today, and this is not just about expropriations. We believe that the Folketing must find common solutions for how citizens should be treated when we make interventions that affect them. We recognise that there are many considerations that need to be taken into account. We want negotiations which will result in citizens' legal certainty being strengthened in the meeting with the public authorities. We want to create some predictability for the citizens. The motion for a resolution actually merely requires the government to call for negotiations. The rest are details that we can discuss in the negotiations. I hope that the parties will take part in this and that we in the negotiating room will find solutions that will strengthen legal certainty for citizens through public intervention. Of course, the public sector must be able to solve our common problems and challenges, but this must be done through proper and transparent processes. With these words, I want to thank you for now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122140	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122144	Thanks to the Left for popping with the flag for enhanced legal certainty by expropriation. In his speech, the rapporteur gave an example of an area reservation that had existed for 30 years, I think the rapporteur said as a criticism of the lack of legal certainty. I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that through Zealand there is this transport corridor which has been there for almost 50 years and which there is a great deal of resistance to maintaining, as has been done, because it does not seem that Ring 5 makes much sense. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is in the view of the Left that there is good legal certainty that no more clarity has been created for the citizens affected by precisely these land reservations and whether the Left will do anything to clarify matters as soon as possible, because that would be a very good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122237	This is precisely one of the things that we see as a major problem, namely that for a very, very long time people with property are placed in uncertainty about what is happening, which is also something that has a bearing on the value of the property. We think it is necessary to consider how to secure people. It could be that if the state wants to make area reservations, people would have an opportunity to say: then I would like to get away from my property. And then the state will have to deal with it afterwards, if it's such a situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122312	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122313	If, in this resolution, the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party say that legal certainty is very important, with which I fully agree, can the rapporteur not say clearly whether the Left will help to provide the necessary clarity for the many citizens who express a great deal of opposition to Ring 5 and who want those land reservations abolished, or at least clarify the situation? There are, for example: a 1982 ruling by the European Court of Human Rights, which says that there are limits to how long the authorities can reserve the possibility of setting up infrastructure facilities, so when the Liberals present this resolution today, will the Left not at the same time help to provide the necessary clarity, the necessary legal certainty for those who want to get rid of the area reservations that are laid out in the transport corridor for a possible Ring 5?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122404	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122406	I understand very well that there may be questions about area bookings a given place, but unfortunately there are area reservations very many places, so we would like a solution on how to make area reservations in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122420	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122424	Thank you. I can help the rapporteur from the Liberal Group, Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer by answering the question to the radical rapporteur by saying that the Social Democrats and the Left have, of course, drawn up a report in the Committee on Transport, where we say, just about Ring 5, that we are looking at it, and then we say that if there are some land that never comes up for use, then they should be released. However, we maintain that there are some areas which must remain reserved. So there's a good piece of work on that blade. Otherwise, however, I am somewhat surprised by the rapporteur of the Left here today, who has come up with some proposals which have had ample opportunity to put forward in recent years. Now, sir. Morten Bødskov was here today as Minister of Taxation, but during the last parliamentary term we often had some formal negotiations in the Ministry of Business and Industry, and there we did a very good and objective job, where we actually agreed across political divisions that we should do something in this area, and fortunately that work has continued under the current government, where the Minister of Transport had recently called a meeting where the Left could also take part, and there I did not hear the views that come out here from the platform today. So I would just like to call on the Left to make use of the openness of the current government to make good cross-party cooperation to ensure better expropriation legislation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122540	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122541	Now it is the case that we have been working on this for quite a while, it was put forward in November, and since then there has been something about corona and things like that that we are only dealing with today, but the essence is that we were also looking at the expropriation stuff then and that the Commission came up with their report. Our approach is, in fact, that we want to have an open-minded discussion because we believe that very many of the challenges we look into are not just expropriations, they are also other influences. And that is why we have been trying to illustrate in our comments what challenges there are and it is not a question of teasing the government. It is, in fact, a hand that we are reaching out to say: we really want to be involved in discussing this because we have a task to do in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122636	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122637	Thank you. Then I'll sign that it's happy. Then we can meet at later meetings and continue that discussion. We should also welcome the fact that some of what is included in this proposal is already applicable legislation, and a few of the proposals, which are also contained in this motion for a resolution, are something that the Minister of Transport has indicated will be put forward in the forthcoming Parliamentary Assembly. However, I would urge that, if it is the case that there are further things that need to be included, we should take a meeting with the Minister of Transport, so that we are sure to have everything in it. Because I think that the mood of all the parties here today is, of course, that it is positive that we have very good legislation in this area. Well, let's make sure that's how it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122719	Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122720	I would say that I have great respect for the Minister of Transport, but this covers much wider. For the essence is that many of the things we are going to do in the future will also be on the environment, for example. Therefore, there will be some aspects in which I think it is a broader discussion than just a discussion that is part of transport. But I fully acknowledge what has come about expropriations. We will certainly support this because it is entirely in line with the committee's recommendations. That is why I think that what is central to us is whether we could not come and talk about it with each other. That's really just what we're asking for. So I can't believe the government can't vote for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122806	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122831	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225122849	Thank you for the floor. In the Social Democratic Party, we are pleased that the opportunity to ensure proper welfare in our municipalities has improved as a result of the compensatory reform and the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2021. The compensatory reform has meant that some municipalities with high tax levels have reduced the tax, while some municipalities with low taxes have increased the tax, that is to say the difference between the municipalities has been reduced, which is positive from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party. Together with the Left, the Radical Left, the SF and the Alternative, we agreed that, overall, the tax should neither increase nor decrease as a result of the changes in the municipalities' economy for 2021. Therefore, the draft law envisages that the increase in municipal taxes of 175 million. kr. the year 2021 shall be matched by a reduction in the State base tax so that taxes are kept overall at a steady pace. The draft law therefore means that the State bottom tax will be reduced by 0,02 percentage points in 2021 and the subsequent year of income. It is a compensatory approach that is fully in line with what has been done in the past and, moreover, a compensatory approach in which ordinary citizens benefit. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225123017	Thank you. There are no comments. The next is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225123051	This bill is about lowering the bottom tax because, overall, the municipalities are allowing the tax to rise. It is an exercise that has been repeated for many years, which is that when municipal taxes are set up in different places in their budgetary settlements, the bottom tax is generally reduced across the country to compensate for it. We have also agreed this principle in the agreement on the reform of the municipal subsidy and compensation system of May 2020. It is a good principle that, in the case that, overall, the municipalities choose to raise the tax in the final budgeting process, we agree that the state base tax will be reduced accordingly, so that taxes are kept overall in order. It is a good principle that the tax should not increase when the municipalities cannot keep the costs in order, and it is wonderful that the government is sticking to this agreement. The government's tax policy is not about keeping taxes in order. This government has raised taxes more than 30 times for a total of almost 12 billion. kr., and it is without the billions of tax increases that awaits in 2025 in the government's new agreement on car taxes and tax increases in the police settlement. Left votes in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225123206	Thank you for that and we will move on in the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225123222	In fact, I am largely in agreement with what the rapporteur of the Left said. So, with regard to the municipalities, it has been an old principle for many years that some chose to reduce the tax, others set up the tax, and if there was a shortfall, so that the overall tax burden rose around the municipalities, then we chose in here to lower the base tax, so that after all the tax burden remained the same. And that made sense when we had a tax freeze in Denmark. To put it mildly, we have no more. After all, I think it is positive that this mechanism should then be maintained in this area. So, although it is a marginal tax relief on the base tax of 0,02 percentage points, we support it by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225123305	Thank you for that, and we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225123329	Thank you. I'll keep it short. We are merely following up the agreement on municipal compensation from 2020. SF was included in the agreement on the compensatory reform in 2020. The aim was to ensure that the difference between the richest and the poorest municipalities was not too great. The compensatory reform also allowed a number of municipalities to raise the municipal tax. However, part of the agreement was that the municipal income tax as a whole should not increase as a result of the compensatory reform, which is the reason for lowering the base tax. The overall level of taxation is thus kept calm. We're in the deal, so SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225123403	Thank you for that, and then we move on to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225123419	Thank you. The Radical Left is also part of the compensatory reform, so we naturally support this proposal too. But I also think it might be worth adding a few words to that in addition to what the other rapporteurs have already spoken about. Because we do have a compensation system in Denmark, as it has been constructed now, in the new reform, perhaps also in fact does not always meet the needs of the various developments that exist in the municipalities. They are going to see a long demographic trait, as it is said in good political terms, which is going to undermine the local economy in the years to come. And that is why we are predicting, at least in the Radical Left, that we will be visiting the compensation system again within a relatively short period of time, at least within five to six years. Then it can be said that this basic principle of lowering the base tax is, of course, a move that we are making to offset the overall tax burden. But actually getting the bucket under the inequality in Denmark or the imbalance between the Danish municipalities and the need for funds to create a uniform level of service out there is not solved, even with this bill. So this is really just something I thought was worth keeping to the record, but of course we support an agreement that we have been involved in making ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225123555	Thank you. And we move on to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225123625	In the Enhedslisten, we basically disagree with this bill. For the annual reductions in the base tax to compensate for increasing municipal taxes is gradually becoming a relatively expensive affair. On behalf of Enhedslisten, I have asked questions about the revenue effect, and the corresponding reductions in 2018 and 2019 and 2020 cost the Treasury total approximately 700 million. kr. a year. And with this bill, we're about 900 million. kr., close to 1 billion. kr. So it is becoming a lot of money that it costs to keep the remains of the bourgeois tax freeze. Some people may say that we should not tax our citizens by fire. Some people would say that, and you don't actually do that by dropping these annual reductions. Looking at the distribution of income, cancelling the reductions from 2018, 2019 and 2020 combined will mean that the tax will increase by less than DKK 200. for the poorest part of the population, and even for the 10%. According to the Danish Treasury, the annual tax increase is limited to DKK 410. a year, which amounts to about $3 (U.S.). a month. In short, the tax increase for the individual citizen is so marginal that one has to doubt that they would discover it. The distribution profile is, moreover, completely neutral. On the other hand, we are writing off an amount of almost 1 billion. kr., which we need so much. There is a good need for this money, both in welfare, where midwives have recently pressed the alarm button over completely impossible conditions and enormous work pressure, but also in relation to the green transition. Nevertheless, we must write off money ritually by making these reductions of the base tax. The Enhedslisten believes that the money is needed for welfare, and we do not think that this automaticity, which is the remains of the bourgeois tax freeze, makes sense and therefore Enhedslisten cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225123829	Thank you. And we have a new rapporteur, it's from the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Merete Scheelsbeck.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225123857	Thank you. As a Conservative, I should be delighted with a proposal like this: a reduction in the base tax. However, it is only 0.02 percentage points, but everything else equal is a tiny step in the right direction. But then it is, of course, that I would just remind myself of the background to the proposal, namely that the base tax should be reduced, because the municipal tax in several of the municipalities in the country has been raised in connection with the budget for 2021. In total, it has been increased by 175 million. kr. distributed in addition to 16 municipalities. And why is that? It is largely because of the compensatory reform that the government concluded an agreement with its support parties and the Left last year. It is an agreement that we in the Conservative People's Party are not part of, because we do not believe that municipalities that run the shop well should be punished just because it does so. This creates totally wrong incentives. Municipalities that have received an extra bill have had to raise the municipal tax, and this must then be compensated at national level. It is called a tax freeze by some parties, and that is also the case if we look at it together at national level. But it is not something that can be used for anything if you live in one of the municipalities where you have had to raise the municipal tax substantially. If we look at the figures, this is a very small patch for some on an open leg: 0,02 percentage points reduction in the bottom tax against an increase in the municipal tax of 0.83 percentage points in Gentofte Municipality, or an increase in the municipal tax of 0.5 percentage points in the municipality of Hørsholm, or an increase in the municipal tax of 0.5 percentage points in the municipality of Vallensbæk. This means in round figures that a family in Vallensbæk Municipality, where the man works as a police officer and the woman works as a nurse, will experience a tax increase based on the municipal tax increase of DKK 3,500. a year; because of this compensatory reform. With the proposal we are debating today, the same family will then receive a tax relief of less than DKK 150. a year. And frankly, I don't think that family is clapping in their hands while we deal with this proposal. Another paradoxical consequence of the compensatory reform is the situation in Kalundborg. Kalundborg wins over 100 million. kr. I would like to say a few words about the compensation agreement, and I think that is something that is worth mentioning in addition to the 300 million. kr., which they already received according to the old agreement. With the budget for 2021, Kalundborg reduces the municipal tax by 0.4 percentage points to a municipal tax of 24.4%, which is far below the national average, and now has a lower municipal tax than both Helsingør, Vallensbæk, Hillerød and Solrød, all of which from this year will have to pay further in compensation. We think that is quite wrong, but I understand that the Mayor of the Left in Kalundborg, Martin Damm, is very pleased with such a compensation agreement. His citizens receive both a municipal tax relief and a base tax relief. I'd be very happy with that too if I were mayor. But I also understand if there are citizens in some of the paying municipalities who think this is an unfair distribution: why should the nurse in Gentofte have a huge tax spanner so that the nurse in Kalundborg can have a tax relief? It doesn't make any sense. However, we are voting in favour of the bill because we want the Danes to pay less in tax as a starting point. We just think that the basis for this tax relief is very sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225124248	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225124310	Thank you. A proposal to lower the base tax is, of course, something we welcome in the New Citizens' Party. We are not very happy with a proposal to increase the municipal tax. That's what this bill looks like. So if we could just take the first part, we'd be really, really happy. It may be that we have to make an amendment to remove the second part. But that's the way it is with this bill, so it's sad, sad, but lowering the bottom tax can be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225124335	Thank you. There's no one from the Liberal Alliance, so we're moving on to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225124349	Thank you. Thank you very much for the positive reception of the bill. As several have already mentioned, the reason for the proposal to reduce the state base tax is, of course, that the municipal tax is expected to increase by approx. 175 million kr. In addition to the framework set on the basis of the broad agreement made in the Folketing on the compensatory reform, and also the agreements on the municipalities' economy for 2021. This then results in a set-off in the municipal block grants corresponding to the extra tax increase. The compensatory reform has helped to reduce the municipal tax in a number of municipalities with high taxes. Conversely, some other municipalities with lower taxes have also been able to raise the tax. It is good that the difference between municipalities in this way has been reduced. However, it has also been an objective that, overall, the tax should neither increase nor decrease compared to what was agreed. Therefore, the government also announced, even when the municipalities' budgets were adopted, that we would seek support for a reduction in the base tax, which corresponds to the increase in the municipal tax. In addition, as mentioned above, the draft law provides for a reduction in the State base tax in order to compensate citizens for the municipal tax increase, so that overall taxes are kept calm. After all, it is proposed to reduce the base tax by 0,02 percentage points in 2021 and subsequent years of income. The compensation model, which has also been developed, is quite in line with what has been done in the past, so for people who have dealt with it here, the proposal does not come as a great surprise. Against this background, I would just like to thank you once again for the broad support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225124544	We thank the Minister. There are no questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225124611	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Troels Ravn as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225124629	Thank you for the floor. Combating tax havens and combating tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is an important priority for social democracy. Our social model is based on the fact that everyone contributes to the community, and citizens must be able to rely on everyone to pay the taxes they have to pay. That is why it is important that we take an active part in the fight against aggressive tax planning. This can be done in several ways, and we are already well in the process of measures that help to ensure that income to be taxed in Denmark is taxed in Denmark. The draft law we are discussing here today also helps to combat tax evasion and avoidance. The approach here is to take action against countries which can be used as tax havens by certain international companies and groups of companies. The background to the draft law is cooperation in the EU to counter tax havens. The joint work has resulted in a blacklist of non-cooperative tax jurisdictions that do not meet international standards and criteria for tax transparency and fair taxation. At the same time, it was decided that from 2021 onwards all Member States should introduce national rules on defensive measures to put pressure on countries on the blacklist and to strengthen their incentives to change legislation and practices themselves. That translates this bill. Because the fight against tax havens is a major priority, and because the government wants Denmark to be an international pioneer in the fight against tax havens, the bill proposes to introduce two of the four possible measures. It comes on top of the government's ongoing efforts under the auspices of the EU for a more ambitious blacklist of noticeable consequences for the countries on the list. Firstly, it is proposed to refuse deductions for certain payments, so that individuals and companies should not, as a rule, be able to deduct payments to interest recipients in countries on the blacklist. Similarly, such payments must not otherwise be included in the calculation of taxable income. Secondly, we are proposing to increase the tax on dividends, so that people and companies resident in countries on the blacklist who receive dividends from main shareholders, subsidiary shares or group companies' shares should, as a rule, pay a final gross tax of 44 per cent. Together, the two measures will increase tax payments here in Denmark to an extent that will significantly reduce the incentive to make these forms of payments and dividend payments to the countries on the blacklist. Similarly, it will mean less activity in the countries, and the sum of the EU's and Member States' actions will thus give the blacklisted countries a major incentive to change the rules so that they can no longer be used for tax avoidance. It has been an important priority for the Social Democratic Party that these necessary measures in the fight against tax havens do not affect Danish business. Therefore, the proposal to reduce deductions only covers payments made to interest-linked recipients, and not payments made to third parties. The possibility to continue to deduct payments for purchases of goods and services from third parties will allow Danish companies to maintain their real business activities in the respective countries. All in all, the bill represents an important step in the fight against tax havens and tax evasion, and at the same time we are helping to show the rest of the international community that we in Denmark are taking the lead in this fight. Of course, the social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125017	There are some questions. First, it's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125020	Thank you. I agree with the Socialist rapporteur that we must combat tax havens and people trying to save money in these countries, but I noticed that the rapporteur said that this would result in a sharp increase in tax revenues in Denmark, because it did not provide an incentive to move money out of the country. I am just wondering where it comes from, because the draft law drafted by the Ministry says that this has no revenue effect, or that it is at least so small that it cannot be calculated. So it does not increase tax revenue in Denmark, and then you can probably conclude that these measures have no effect. So they look good on paper, but can the rapporteur put a few words on what the impact of this bill is?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125059	I am very pleased that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party as such supports the bill here. That is the view of the Social Democratic Party. that, with these measures and the fact that we are, both nationally and in the EU as a whole, engaged in a fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion, we will be able to ensure that the tax payable in Denmark is also paid in Denmark. That is why the fight against tax havens and aggressive tax planning is a priority, and I also believe that this will mean that we will also be able to secure a greater tax payment in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125140	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125142	But how do you come to the conclusion that it ensures a higher tax payment in Denmark when the Ministry says it has no effect? It is fair enough to say that you want to take the lead and that these are good initiatives, but if that has no effect, what is the point? Then you get into a balance discussion about how it bothers Danish business, because there are some who are bothered by new rules, and if it has no effect, I do not know how good an idea it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125206	Well, it's the Social Democrat's very clear view that this will have an effect, both in relation to the fact that we put the tax rate higher for these groups and companies that will avoid paying taxes and place their profits in tax havens, and at the same time also in relation to what I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, that we are not bothering Danish business, because we are not. It will continue to be possible to trade with third parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125244	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125247	I also think it is important that we combat tax havens, but there is something that I do not think is quite clear. You had to take one out of four steps, and this is the second step we're taking. How many other EU countries take two steps and what other EU countries are taking this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125306	It is important for the Social Democrats and the government to take the lead in the fight against aggressive tax planning and placing money in tax havens, so we have chosen to take two out of the four measures that I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. Thus we expect to be able both to secure our tax base and thus also to ensure that Denmark is a pioneer country in order to avoid tax havens and aggressive tax planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125339	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125340	That was not really an answer to my question. Are there any other EU countries that have taken this step, and are there any other EU countries that have taken two out of four steps instead of just one?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125353	For me, the most important thing is that we here in Denmark both at national level, for example with the measures we have taken in relation to increased tax controls, but also at international level through the European Union and through the OECD, among other things. also with these measures, of which we in Denmark have chosen to take two of these measures, make an effort to avoid aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. This is the most important and central issue for me in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125420	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125422	I'm getting a little confused down here. Could the rapporteur not confirm whether it is the rapporteur's view that this draft law provides significant revenue implications for the state or whether it does not? It's a pretty simple question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125440	Well, as I have answered several times in my rapporteur's speech, it is crucially important, and it is a high priority for the Social Democratic Party, that we take the lead in the fight against tax havens and aggressive tax planning. And I also believe that it will strengthen our tax base and our tax payments in Denmark. That is the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125503	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125504	Okay, but if the rapporteur does not want to reply to that, I can quote what the draft law says: 'The draft law is therefore judged to have no significant revenue implications'. In other words, when the rapporteur's own minister and his ministry say that it does not have any significant consequences, I think it is amazing that you stand and say that it does. The proposal says in black and white that it does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125536	Well, it's a perception that a general fight against aggressive tax planning and placing your money in tax havens are also important to our tax base, and that the fact that Denmark is at the forefront of this fight is important, also in terms of ensuring that everyone answers what they have to do in tax. I mean, this is also hugely important for our people to have confidence in us and for everyone to pay what they have to pay in taxes, no more and no less. And I would be delighted if New Citizens would support that fight too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125610	We thank the rapporteur. There's no more questions, and then we'll go ahead and say to Mr. Knox. Kim Valentin, rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225125639	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refrain from explaining what this proposal is about. I think the previous rapporteur did quite well. But I would like to spend some time explaining that it is very important for the Left that we make a lot of efforts to avoid tax havens. It is super, super important because it gives us greater respect for our own tax system when you see that there is no cheating elsewhere. And that's why, of course, we on the Left do a lot of thinking about how to do these things. It is also important that when you do it, you do it effectively; that you do not just do something to do something. That is why, of course, we have also looked through this proposal and we have listened to what has been said and we have seen what has been written by the consultation parties. And that is why we would like to be a little critical in the first place. How are we critical? Yes, we are critical in that we would like to ask a lot of questions about what is actually being proposed here. Firstly, there is a real risk of overimplementation, as Denmark has already done some of these parts. In fact, one of the four proposals has already been dealt with a great deal, and that is in relation to what we call CFC rules. And it works. You could say, shall we do more? Well, maybe it is. But then what we do must be effective. The second is that it says that there must be such an extra high tax rate on dividends of 44 per cent. Actually, for those whom this really will hit, it will be 42 per cent that you're measuring up to if it's the personal share income tax. How much does 44-42 per cent mean?? That is the question: what is actually being proposed here? Then there's no guarantee that with this bill you'll actually get these blacklist countries to correct in any way. We think that is also a problem. We also think that there has been too little dialogue with, for example, Mr President. Dansk Erhverv, Dansk Industri, Danske Rederier, who has given some good answers to how they feel about this. And they think that there are unintended negative consequences for Danish business. And there's a concern from there, compared to just being imposed extra tax burdens in Denmark, while nothing really happens in the world when you do these parts. I would also like to point out that the comments made by the draft law show that a consequence of the rules proposed would be a significant increase in tax payments in this country. At the same time, it says elsewhere: "However, there are no indications to estimate the amount of potential additional revenue, but it is considered to be extremely limited. How do these two things fit together? We would like to ask a few questions about that. We do not think that we are well enough aware of this, and so we will be allowed to be critical in the first place. And then we see what comes of answers to these parts. This proposal seems to say that you want to do something without really doing anything. And the risk is that you're going to do nothing compared to these tax havens. And we will be allowed to be critical of that towards the second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130116	There is a question from Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130119	I have a question about what the position of the Left really is and the question is about two things. It seems to the Left that it is a problem that the EU's blacklist of tax havens is too thin and does not contain enough tax havens, that is to say it is too difficult to get to it and that, moreover, it is too difficult to get to it, for example. is too easy to get off it? That is one question. The second question concerns the concrete proposals for tightening up the tax havens, which are in fact on the EU's blacklist. Does the Left not think that it is fair to have a big hammer against some tax havens countries that are really doing everything they can to cheat countries like Denmark for the tax payment that should lie in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130206	Thank you, and thank you for a few good questions. First of all, it is the Council of Europe that makes these four parts and the resolution from there, and I think that we are doing a great deal to get something out of it. Doing things through the European Union is quite good. We in the Left also believe that it is good to do it together through the European Union. And then it is important for us that what is being proposed is not just something that is being proposed, but something that can actually be done about. And this may in fact be too little compared to what we are doing today, when we have really done something. I mean, the CFC rules are, for example, the CFC rules. very effective. I only got 15 seconds to answer here, I see.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130302	Thank you. I do not think that the answer is entirely correct. Because the question I am asking is twofold. It is about the fact that the EU blacklist is actually too thin and that there are not enough countries on it. That's one part. The second part is about the fact that, in my view, the tools chosen for the countries that are actually on the blacklist seem sensible here. Isn't that also a distinction that the Left should have?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130338	Of course, I do not disagree with the fact that it is effective tools if one gets into dialogue with them at the other end of it, and that is the problem here. After all, we will not get into dialogue with them at the other end if there is really no effect of this in tax havens that we are now dealing with here. And right after this, we have another proposal for a double taxation agreement in which we can continue the discussion on it, i.e. whether it is an effective way of doing so, namely to terminate it. I do not think that with these proposals we will necessarily have something moved in tax havens, and that is what we want from the Left. We'd like to move something. We'd like the tax havens to get off this blacklist. This does not necessarily result in these proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130435	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130509	Here we have a bill that deals with tax evasion or rather: how to use tax havens to avoid paying the tax you have to pay, and in general just doing tax optimization. And to combat it, this so-called blacklist has been made in the EU, and there are 12 countries on the list right now. These are countries which are typically those which may not cooperate in exchanging information, or which have artificially low tax rules, or which have structures that make them attractive to use. The law is then about imposing sanctions on these 12 countries on the blacklist, so you give them a greater incentive to get out of It comes from some EU rules, which contain four possible measures, one can choose where Denmark has then chosen to take two, i.e. a kind of overimplementation of what has been imposed on us. The first initiative, which was also mentioned by the first rapporteur, is, of course, that payments to a sister company cannot be deducted from tax havens. I believe that in the draft law it is called interest-linked companies or recipients. I think it will be quite effective, because at least it is not very interesting to bring money to a tax havens if you cannot get the deductions. The second part is about the tax on dividends, where people and companies belonging to blacklist countries receive such a gross tax of 44 per cent, i.e. a much higher tax rate than the one actually held as a dividend tax normally. So, although it is actually over-implementation, I really think that it seems like good action that has been set up. But where one then gets a little worried about the balance, there is also a burden on the Danish business community. Because, as the debate has shown, the draft law says that this has no significant revenue. So even though I think that Denmark should actually take the lead and take an active part in the fight against the use of tax havens, this seems more like we are taking some steps on the spot. At any rate, for measures which do not generate any revenue, they cannot have a major effect on the fight against tax havens. Or, on the other hand, you might recognise that there may be something forward-looking and that you might be able to close some gaps and that people then cannot use these rules to tax optimize. But it certainly hasn't, it seems, frightened somebody away from doing what they already do today. So our starting point for this bill is positive, but we're gonna try to dive a little more into this to see if these two measures have any effect at all. But our basic attitude is that it is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130732	There is a question from Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130734	That's a very kind question. If the Danish People's Party now thinks that the tools being used here can make sense, then it is all about having some tax havens to use them on. And that is really where the problem lies for me, and that is our view on the part of the Enhedslisten. Right now we have an EU blacklist that is so infinitely thin and where there is no worst tax havens in the world at all. That is really where the problem lies. Here we have some good tools, but we have a very short list to use them on. That is really the challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130821	First of all, I think it is positive that the list has been drawn up, which is actually relatively new, but I am actually also surprised that there are no more countries and that it has not been more aggressive, because there are a great many countries around that are being used in one way or another, including in different tax areas. To be honest, I actually agree with Enhedslisten that it is a rather thin list. There is also a lack, I think, of pressure within the EU countries, because they have also been completely sorted out. This is very natural, because our own countries are part of a membership group, but there are also EU countries which are actually used in some areas for tax speculation. So I really wanted to expand the base or circle, or whatever to call it, so I looked more closely at what is of tax havens around the world, so that you could use this blacklist actively to put pressure on these countries, so that after all they got right and closed these holes and maybe became more active in exchanging information and all these things that we typically talk about when we talk about tax havens. So I actually agree with that. I think the list is too thin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130916	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130917	That is really the problem here. We can adopt all the sensible tools we want, but if the list on which they are to be used cannot be used for anything or for infinitely little, then that is really where we have the problem. Perhaps that is also the real explanation of where there will be a very small revenue effect from this. But what you can hope for is that, when you have some good tools in your toolbox, you can fight for the list of tax havens that can then be hit by it to be expanded. Unfortunately, the opposite is happening at the moment, and that is deeply problematic. But the tools are really good enough. Now all we need is somebody to use them on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225130951	However, I do not fundamentally disagree with that. But I also think that we should look at it more widely than just looking at the blacklist. Now we have the next legislative proposal, and there we could also discuss double taxation agreements, where I also think that this is really one of the most effective tools to be used in the fight, in other words ensuring that there can be no double taxation, but not taxation, which is of course an important consideration here. I think it needs to be used more actively. There are many tools. The blacklist is clearly an important signal that you send out to people, even when you make sanctions based on it; but you just have to remember that there are also many other tools that are super effective in the fight against tax havens. So that's not the only tool we need to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225131026	Then we thank the rapporteur, and then we welcome the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225131047	Thank you very much. In SF we fight for a fight with aggressive tax planning and the use of tax havens. We do this because Danish society loses around 7 billion. kr. every year in tax revenue from companies that either break or bypass our common rules. It is money that we could have spent on combating corona, more and better welfare, on the green transition, or whatever it should be. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is about a joint EU effort. Denmark, together with the rest of the EU Member States, is sanctioning states outside the EU that do not meet the EU's requirements for good tax practice. The EU's work on the blacklist has been flawed. That is, for example, the case. Only recently has been agreed that the European Union will also have to look at tax havens within its own borders. This bill is a step in the right direction, as I see it, but there is also a very long way to go. The problem of aggressive tax thinking is not just outside the borders of the European Union. Both in the EU and in Denmark, SF is struggling to stop greed. In Denmark, it is obvious to start by ensuring greater publicity about tax payments as well as making banks, accountants and lawyers responsible for their tax advice. With existing legislation, it is not possible to separate the sheep from the goats. We should therefore, among other things, do something about it. extend the requirements for disclosure of corporate tax payments, country by country, and make banks and advisors liable for loss of tax revenue if they encounter questionable tax arrangements without notifying it to the tax authorities. When I looked at this bill, I was particularly attached to Oxfam IBIS's hearing response to the proposal, which I think is quite qualified. They propose, among other things: to extend the geographical scope. I think that is an exciting idea, because if the draft law, as it now stands, only imposes sanctions on the countries that are blacklisted in the European Union, we risk another symbolic blow in the air, as it ended up with the tax havens in the corona relief packages, on which I also had the tax minister in consultation at that time. Fortunately, EU Member States are free to adopt defensive measures against countries which are not included in the EU's very deficient list, which includes the following: Holland has made use of. We could, of course, be inspired by this in Denmark, and I would like the Minister to deal with it. It does not need to look exactly like in the Netherlands, but the draft law, as I see it, should be strengthened, so that the defensive measures do not only apply to the jurisdictions of the EU blacklist, which are quite flawed, as Mr. Rune Lund also mentioned earlier. We would also like to ask the Minister to respond to Oxfam IBIS's proposal to introduce tough defensive measures, particularly high withholding taxes on interest, royalties, service payments, etc. to the jurisdictions targeted by the bill. Much of the aggressive tax planning that we see is, after all, about the use of loans and intangible assets to move profits out of Denmark, and it would probably be good if the bill imposed not only higher withholding taxes on dividends but also on such payments flows. In addition, we would also like a comment from the Minister on the proposal to exempt unproblematic developing countries from the defensive measures that Oxfam IBIS also mentions. As a starting point, the SF supports the bill, but at the same time we call on the government and the Folketing to take further action in this area, and we will probably also be tabling some amendments to this if the government itself does not tighten it up a little. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225131426	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then we welcome the next rapporteur. Mrs. Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225131447	Thank you, President. In the Radical Left, of course, we are also opposed to aggressive tax planning and speculation: companies moving their assets out of Denmark so that they avoid paying what they have to pay to the common fund. Of course we are. And one of the reasons it is, is that to get on this list, you have to be difficult to communicate with, and you shouldn't be able to send out the right documents; there's plug in the pipeline, so to speak. But it is not the case that we can ban countries, at least not yet, from setting a corporation tax rate of 0 per cent. After all, there is a national sovereignty to take into account, and perhaps it is also one of the fundamental challenges that should be fought in the European Union. In the European Union, the government as well as our own European sister parties are fighting to create a common bottom line on European corporation tax. Of course, the European Union should also spread that battle on a global scale. One of the things we in the Radical Left think should also be a huge tool in this box is actually to try to target foreign aid and development aid to countries that have to develop their tax systems so that they are better upholstered against speculation. In fact, we are thinking that it might be a much better tool than any of what we are dealing with today. We are, of course, very, very pleased that the European Union has got itself together to draw up a four-point list of recommendations, and that we then actually implement three of the four. I know that today it is two, but the third is an upgrade of the cfc rules that we are dealing with in a different context, and it will be very, very good to have it closed in a moment; it has also been a long time in the process, but we will take that another day. However, the two out of the four that we are discussing today are, of course, entirely in favour of, even though we can see in the consultation answers that there are, of course, some challenges when, for example, we are faced with. hits activities in Panama, etc. However, when you work with politics, we in the Radical Left might have to get used to the fact that sometimes you make a bill which has an enormous effect and where there is a huge revenue and which really has impact, and sometimes you have to send a signal; then you have to go ahead and lay a high level of ambition so that other countries can be comforted in that you can do so. In fact, we do not really know how the other countries of the European Union are implementing these recommendations. We only know that during the year we enter now. The others are in the same process as we are, so the thing about going in to look at what effect it will have here and how it can then spread to the rest of the European Union can be interesting, so that together we will be able to put pressure on the other countries of the world. At least that's how the effectual thinking will be in a radical brain like mine. All in all, that is why we support this bill and the tools we are now introducing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225131809	Then there is a question from Mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225131810	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for that explanation. I think that the rapporteur made very little mention of the consultation responses to the draft law that has been given. After all, they are not very positive, because one imagines that if we introduce this legislation, it is actually more a nuisance to companies in Denmark than an effective way of influencing where the crime is actually taking place, in other words in tax havens. What about the Radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225131848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225131849	In fact, I was quite frankly surprised that the hearings were generally as mild as they were. I mean, there are some relationships that do. When you as a Danish company trade with third parties, this deduction does not apply. It is also the case that, for example, if you do not have the right to vote in local elections, you do not have the right to vote in local elections. is already part of the tonnage tax scheme, so one is also exempt from that rule. So it's only in some special cases. There are some shipping companies that are affected and that we must have looked at, but it will always be the case in legislation that there is somewhere that this must be delimited. We've been looking at those hearing answers. There are, for example: At Danske Rederier we have a concern that we should have asked about in committee. But that's one of the things we're trying to look at with the good people over at the Treasury, i.e. whether you can make some kind of exception or how big the problem really is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225131943	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225131945	Thank you. So I hear that the rapporteur also wants to ask a number of questions. I hope we can talk about that afterwards. But should I also hear the answer in that one will actively listen to the consultation answers that have come from the business community?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132003	I've already done that, so I can say yes to that. But we are also a place where we want to fight tax havens. We want to combat tax speculation, and when the European Union actually goes in, we want to join that club and actually say that let us take together this fight against global tax speculation. If we can then prevent anyone from being harmed in that process at all, or if it hits wrong, then it will of course be most optimal, but just mention me a law that has not hit anyone in the head at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132039	Then we thank the rapporteur and then we welcome the next rapporteur. It's sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132103	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we are strong supporters of these actions. It is in our optics some hard-hitting tools when you remove deductions and contain taxes with increased tax rates for tax havens, and that is exactly the right way forward. That is why we are also voting in favour of this bill. But once again, as I have said in some of the comments I have made to other rapporteurs, this bill presents the huge problem of binding these really good measures only to the EU blacklist countries. It is a list which, in fact, has to be seen as a joke. Where are the Cayman Islands? Where's Bermuda? Where are Jersey and all the classic, large and important tax havens that, by the way, aren't on this blacklist in the European Union either? And then we have not even started talking about the European tax havens, including EU countries, which are tax havens and which are the cause of by far the largest part of the lost tax revenue for tax havens. That is, for example, the case. Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Ireland. After all, the blacklist from the EU does not contain one of the 15 worst tax havens, as calculated by the Tax Justice Network and the Oxfam IBIS, two of the NGOs that work very much with and know very much about the tax havens problem. We also think on the part of the Enhedslisten that we should have a national blacklist which we can use as a basis for these defensive measures and, moreover, also as a basis for discussing which countries should conclude double taxation agreements at all. Because the EU blacklist is useless. We have tabled a motion for a resolution on the introduction of a national blacklist before, but that would include, among other things, the introduction of a national blacklist. Social democracy is not a part of this. Why? What are you waiting for? If you could only see that the blacklist gradually improved, but unfortunately it is getting worse and worse, for every time it is so-called updated. A few days ago, February 22, it happened again. Here again one of the more central tax havens, Barbados, fell off. It only goes one way at the moment, and it's the wrong one. What has the government done in concrete terms to prevent that dilution, particularly in relation to Barbados? The Minister may in fact give a reply to this question to the Danish Parliament today. It is a pity that this bill provides hard-hitting and effective tools, but that we confine ourselves to applying them only to a great deal of more or less relevant countries. It's kind of like the policeman being allowed to draw weapons only to the shoplifter, but not to the bank robber. In the Enhedslisten, of course, we are voting in favour of the proposal with the pious hope that in the future we will be able to include in these defensive measures the tax havens that actually matter. Because it's a great thing to equip the police with a huge fine block, but it's just too bad if they're on a road where no cars are driving at all, and that's basically the problem with this bill. But there are some sensible tools, and that is very positive. Now we just have to make sure that they are actually used on some of the tax havens that are the ones we want to hit with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132428	There is a question from Mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132430	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. I am told that the rapporteur recognises that if we are to do something seriously about these tax havens countries, and it is important for the Left that we do something about it, we have to do it through the European Union. But I also hear that the rapporteur is dissatisfied with the list. Then it can be said that if the European Union made a broader list, it would be good to use the European Union. Now I take this opportunity to ask the rapporteur whether it is a good thing that we have the European Union to make a blacklist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132507	Yes, it is. We support the fight against tax havens internationally, including those taking place in the European Union, and also the rules that come from the European Union, which are largely based on recommendations and standards that come from the OECD and which, in this way, seem broader than, as it were, just in the European Union. So it's very positive. What is a pity here is that you do not go far enough, for example. in order to ensure that there is a minimum tax so that there are no countries in the European Union that can behave like tax havens with far too low taxation. So there is clearly an EU track and that is one way to go, but I also believe that we, from the Danish side and from the individual countries, need to look at the opportunities that are actually in the rules that have already been adopted. Because we have a room for manoeuvre to take advantage of the rules that already exist, and this is actually an example of that. We in the Group of the Party of European Socialists believe that the space that exists should be exploited, especially because we can see that there are countries that are also EU countries that have very low tax rates and that are doing everything they can to block further legislation. So we must at least use the legislation we have and there are actually good opportunities at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132621	Thank you. Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132622	I am very pleased with the answer given by the rapporteur. I can only say that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party in the European Parliament is working to make this happen, and so is the Liberal Group in this House, and it is in fact the Left and Radicals who are united there. And I would urge you to just find out what is actually going on there and perhaps give a message down there. I know that there is some cooperation between the Danish Members of the European Parliament on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132657	It sounds positive, I think, that such cooperation is taking place. I just think that the Left should be able to vote in favour of this proposal without any difficulty, because the tools we put in the toolbox here are extremely reasonable to use against some tax havens that are doing everything they can to make sure that they can care for other countries that have more reasonable taxation than they have. That is why the Left should be able to vote in favour of this bill, especially if, at the same time, the Left believes that the blacklist should be expanded and strengthened so that these tools can actually be used in the real world. So with the comments that Mr. Kim Valentin, I really think it should be unproblematic for the Left to back this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132736	We thank the rapporteur. And then we welcome the next rapporteur, Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225132809	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we would very much like to help ensure robust international tax rules that effectively stem aggressive tax planning. Law-abiding citizens should not be torn by people who do not want to comply with the rules of the game. However, we are not, of course, blindly involved in legislating until there is a satisfactory answer to relevant questions. And I think there are some very relevant questions raised in connection with the consultation answers that are linked to this bill. I must also acknowledge that I am not entirely satisfied with the preliminary answers given by the Ministry to some of the relevant questions. In several areas the answers are simply not precise enough. For example, answers are given. I do not fully understand why we seem to be going solo among the EU countries with an over-implementation of EU proposals. In the Conservative People's Party we support a process in which we take the consultation answers seriously, and I have noted in this respect that the Lawyers' Council believes that the proposal is an expression of over-implementation of EU law, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned; that Danish Businesses are concerned about whether the bill has found the right balance between the need to ensure effective protection against tax evasion and the concern for Danish industry, and whether in the pursuit of tax scammers unintentionally affects Danish companies and Danish jobs; that DI believes that the draft law can have significant implications for companies that have completely legitimate business activities in the countries concerned, and that DI calls for Denmark to coordinate its implementation of the actions agreed by EU countries with the other EU countries. In this context, the DI requests clarification of how the other EU countries intend to implement the agreement reached. A large number of relevant questions and concerns are therefore raised, which we would very much like to see clarified before we can take a final position on the draft law, and I therefore look forward to a thorough examination of the draft law by the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225133025	We would like to thank the rapporteur and welcome Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225133043	Thank you. Of course, if companies or individuals break the law, they must be punished. I think everyone agrees on that. I think that, in this debate on tax havens, there is often such criminalisation and suspicion that people want to reduce the amount of tax they have to pay, and there I think we should perhaps go further and say that we are doing so in a large number of other areas too. Well, if you have someone who doesn't use his personal allowance, then it can be transferred, and also in relation to top tax if you are married. There are a large number of elements where people make some changes to their tax payments in order to have to pay less in tax, and it is fully recognizable and completely okay. So I think we should be careful in this debate as to where we are doing it. If there are problems with legislation, then it is up to us in Parliament to make legislation that people then have to comply with. So when you are so busy saying that there are people who are using the legislation for one thing or another, then you have to look at it in here, because this is where we can change that legislation. And that's what this bill is then an attempt to do. I do not agree with that - it may not be quite right, and we shall have to look at it in committee. The constructive way to solve these problems in Denmark would be to eliminate corporate tax. That would be to impose a low capital tax, for example. 25 per cent. Then we are coming a good step along the way. And if you talk about tax havens, it could be wonderful if in future Denmark could be described as "legally" almost as a tax havens. Try to think about the positive effects, the massive investment from abroad that would flow to Denmark, and how we would see growth increase • the job supply needs a little help for right now, because it doesn't look so good. So in a whole range of areas this would simply be positive. Try to imagine that Denmark suddenly became the leading country throughout Europe in relation to making investments. I would like that; it would be a wonderfully positive agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225133259	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more rapporteurs present, and then we welcome the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225133322	Thank you for that, President. It is true that matters such as the one we are dealing with today, such as the fight against tax havens, aggressive tax planning and, of course, the issue of the EU blacklist, are complicated cases. One of the reasons why we are standing here today is to ensure that we get better tools, that we get better hands on those who take advantage of the complexity of this legislation, and not least the inability of the countries to cooperate that they should not exploit gaps in the legislation. That is why it is actually very, very simple. Basically, it is a question of making deductions which we do not think should be granted. Firstly, and above all, it is a question of ensuring that conditions that should be taxed in Denmark are also taxed in Denmark. It's not harder than that. And then it is true that the legislation that then applies is extremely complicated; unfortunately, it is most often the case with international tax legislation. But basically it is the two things it is about. If you agree with that, you have to vote in favour of this bill. If you disagree, I think you have an explanation problem in relation to what you have to talk about elsewhere: combating tax havens, aggressive tax planning, etc. Basically, this proposal is about. So I do not think that the elections are so difficult, and I would, of course, like to thank you for the relatively broad support that has been given to the legislative proposal, because it is important that we, particularly as a small country, but with a very open economy, which is dependent on very large trade with the outside world, take the lead in the fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. That is why it is an important priority for the government, and that is why, in the document of understanding underlying the formation of government, one can see that it is an important priority for several parties here in the Folketing. It is essential for our society that we all contribute to the community and that no one, especially through tax legislation, is given the opportunity to evade it. It is a battle that requires that we continuously take action on several fronts. One of the fronts is to ensure that we constantly have robust and effective safeguards that ensure that all income to be taxed in Denmark is also actually taxed in Denmark. We have such effective safeguards, for example. By means of the rules on the limitation of interest rate rebates, transfer pricing, which we are also discussing occasionally, thin capitalisation and so, as the radical rapporteur also mentioned, the issue of cfc taxation. In Bill No. L 89, which is currently being dealt with by the committee, is precisely a proposal for an adjustment of these safeguards, i.e. the cfc rules, so that they can prevent the transfer of mobile income to tax havens. The legislative proposal that we are dealing with first here today is about a different front: it is about taking action against the countries that can be used as tax havens by certain international groups and companies. It is a battle that we are not alone in, because we are working together with, among others. The OECD and also other EU Member States to establish common minimum international standards for all countries' tax rules and, above all, to ensure that these standards can indeed be effectively complied with. Basically, the aim of the bill is to contribute to the joint efforts to get tax havens to change their tax systems. In this way, the rules proposed here by the government also have a broader aim than the rules of protection traditionally have. The background to the draft law is cooperation in the EU on a blacklist of non-cooperative tax jurisdictions. The cooperation shall include, inter alia: led to the decision that, with effect from 2021, all Member States should introduce rules on at least one of four possible actions, including what is known in popular terms as defensive measures against countries on the blacklist. The aim is for the countries concerned to be given such an important incentive to change their national systems that they can also be removed from the blacklist in the future. It is the Government's ambition that Denmark should also take the lead in the fight against tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning internationally and here too in the cooperation on the EU's blacklist. That is the reason for the proposal that we are now implementing not just one but two of the four possible measures against countries on the blacklist. The proposed defensive measures, together with the corresponding measures implemented in the other Member States of the European Union, will put common pressure on the countries on the blacklist in order to introduce tax rules and measures to ensure that they comply with international tax standards and, of course, what is called good tax practices in the future. The bill sends a clear signal to the international community that we in Denmark are still at the forefront of the fight against tax havens and aggressive tax planning. That is why I would like to stress that the Government will not continue its efforts in the future to make the blacklist even more ambitious and to ensure that the criteria of the list are sufficiently effective, that they are strengthened, where appropriate, and that the consequences of the blacklisting become and must be noticeable. This work is currently being done, including in the EU Code of Conduct on Business Taxation, and it is also a priority for the government to ensure that this work progresses. If we look at the proposed defensive measures, as I said, the legislative proposal aims to implement the joint decision of EU Member States to introduce defensive measures against countries on the blacklist of tax havens. As I said, it is proposed to introduce two sets of defensive measures. Firstly, a refusal to deduct certain payments is proposed, so that individuals and companies etc. as a rule, payments to interest-linked recipients in the countries on the variety list shall not be deductible, nor shall such payments be made in any other way when calculating taxable income. Secondly, there is a proposal to increase the tax on dividends, so that persons and companies resident in countries on the blacklist who receive dividends from main shareholders, subsidiary shares or group companies' shares must, as a rule, pay a final gross tax of 44 per cent. of such dividends paid by holding. The proposed rules are therefore targeted at companies and persons making use of one or more countries on the blacklist for payments to related parties or dividends payments to parent companies or main shareholders. The substantial increase in tax payments in this country, which in isolation will be a consequence of the two measures, is likely to remove the incentive to make this kind of payments or dividend payments to these countries, which will result in less activity in the countries. And it is again to be expected to give the countries concerned a significant incentive to change their national tax laws and practices to such an extent that they can be removed from the blacklist in the future and that their rules cannot be applied to international tax avoidance and tax planning. In drawing up the proposal, what has also been promoted has been sought to strike a balance between this concern to counter tax evasion and tax evasion and so the consideration of not hitting Danish industry unnecessarily hard. It came, among other things. As I have said, it is clear that the proposal to reduce deductions only covers payments made to interest-linked recipients, and not payments made to third parties, as the radical rapporteur also mentioned. The possibility of continuing to deduct payments for purchases of goods and services from third parties will allow Danish companies to maintain their real business activities in the countries concerned. So in other words, the proposal is complicated, but is basically relatively simple, and it helps to ensure that Denmark takes the lead in the fight against tax havens and aggressive tax planning, and helps to take responsibility for putting further pressure on the countries on the blacklist in the EU as well. This is one way of achieving our objective of ensuring more transparency in tax matters. And all in all, I think that is a very good purpose, and we are helping to support that with this bill. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134320	There are three questions. First of all, sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134325	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. It was, after all, a lot of words about something that is so economical, and it is stated in the draft law: that there is a substantial increase in tax payments. Then you could stop here and say: that is also true of what the Minister has just said. At the same time, however, it says a little further that it is estimated that the additional revenue is extremely limited. Can the Minister elaborate on that? How can these two things even harmonize? Is there any connection at all between what the Minister has just said and the fact that this actually means something and the fact that it says that the additional revenue must be considered to be extremely limited?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134419	Yes, there is a very clear link, namely that the direct effect of the bill does not trigger a tax payment, and therefore the bill does not introduce a revenue gain. The contract and that is what is central to the proposal ensures that the funds will then be in Denmark for the benefit of Danish society and the Danish economy, and I assume that the Left also supports that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134439	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134440	Thank you and thank you for the question. Then I can say that the Left fully supports the fight against tax havens. We do so both here and in the European Parliament, and we also believe that the European Parliament is the right place to do this very effectively. My question to the Minister is this: when you choose to take the lead and implement the rules, and we already have cfc rules, and then you take two of the proposals that are there, you have, in fact, already implemented three rules out of four. Is it not risky to bother Danish companies more than is necessary, without it having any effect at all on the other end?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134520	No, the government does not think this is the consequence, and we do not think so, because, as I have said, we have been in dialogue with those parts of the Danish business community who have also submitted hearings and have tried to strike a balance so that what they can continue to maintain is real business activities in these areas. What we are saying no to here is that we have to deduct payments they make from what are called linked companies. We don't think that's something we need to spend money on to say it the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134552	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134554	I would really just like to ask the Minister if he agrees with his own Socialist rapporteur, who says that this will give • was it a powerful one? I mean, both things aren't right. So I would just like to know briefly whether you agree with the calculations made by your officials or whether you agree with the statements made by your rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134618	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134618-2	I agree with myself, and I myself said just before that, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær quite well belonged, to Mr. Kim Valentin, that the direct effect of the bill is not But what is the point is that the proposal so indirectly ensures that money that should actually be taxed in Denmark is also taxed in Denmark. Maybe it is, sir. Troels Ravn has meant it, and then it is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134655	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134657	It has also been said repeatedly that you are taking some great steps with this, that you are taking the lead and things like that. But if it has no revenue effect, if it has no effect, is it not more step-by-step instead of taking the lead? The measures may be good, but if the list is as poor as Mr. Rune Lund also says it doesn't hit anyone, if the revenue is pretty much zero, don't we take the lead on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134723	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134723-2	Then I am really excited to hear what the Danish People's Party has in mind and has proposals to take the lead in this area. You can always discuss challenges with the tax havens. My colleague, the Finance Minister, does so regularly in the Committee on European Affairs, and I myself have tried it as a substitute here recently. That can always be discussed, and we are happy to discuss in the government what more we can do. But the government's position is very, very clear, and you can read this from what I have said here, and you can read this from the understanding paper which is the basis for the formation of the government: Denmark must take the lead when it comes to combating tax havens and aggressive tax planning. There you can always discuss the individual proposal. But it can be said that, overall, it is all about the gaps that may be in our tax law, and especially in the international variants, we need to be better at closing, and that is one of them. What this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134817	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134818	Now we get this bill, and there are a lot of fine tools in it, and then it seems a little absurd or funny or weird that this week, when we first deal with this bill, there will be a revision of the EU blacklist, where Barbados will be taken off the list of notoriously bad tax havens. We have just the problem, with the EU blacklist, that it is infinitely short. It's too hard to get on the list and it's too easy to get off it. And then Barbados gets taken off it, and then my question is: What does the tax minister think of it? And what has the government been in this? As I understand it, the EU blacklist must be accepted unanimously and this must mean that the Danish Government has accepted that a notoriously bad tax haven like Barbados has been tampered with by the list. Can't the tax minister explain what's going on here? We get some fine tools, but the list will be further watered down even in the very same week when we first process this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134930	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225134931	I'd like to suggest to you, sir. Rune Lund, that the more detailed discussions on the EU's blacklist and the criteria underlying it and the work on it are taken where they belong, among other things. on the European Committee of the Folketing. In general, however, I can say from the government that the proposal we are discussing today is a good example of what the questioner will be able to use the EU blacklist for. It is a new tool for putting pressure on the countries that are on the blacklist. In addition, it is a matter for the government to strengthen the transparency of tax payments and the tax conditions of the countries on the EU blacklist. There is a whole variety of proposals there that are being worked on. But the more specific conditions around individual countries and the criteria are something that lies in ECOFIN, and this is an issue that, if it is to be more detailed, should be addressed in the European Parliament's Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135038	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135039	Does the Minister of Taxation not find it strange that, at the same time as we are discussing these tools, which are extremely good, the government accepts that the EU blacklist will be further undermined when it could have vetoed and prevented it? The Minister for Taxation must have a political attitude as to whether it looks absolutely grotesque.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135102	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135103	Now you have to be careful, and you should not talk about yourself in the third person, but my own position and the attitude of the government is that which I have expressed here, namely that there should be no doubt that Denmark takes the lead when it comes to the fight against tax havens and aggressive tax planning. That is why we are working hard for this under the auspices of the OECD, for that matter also under the auspices of the United Nations and under the auspices of the European Union, and then also adopting national legislation. And when you look at what we've actually been doing in this area since the change of government, this is just one of several suggestions. We have recently adopted a Finance Act which will once again strengthen control, among other things. as part of our fight against tax havens. So we are taking a whole series of initiatives. And then it is clear that we are part of international cooperation, and here we are also pressing for compromises, but where compromises are also being made because the membership class is as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135208	Then we say thank you to the tax minister. There are no more questions, but just a little despriting. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135227	The debate is open. The first to take the floor is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135250	Thank you for the floor. The draft law we are now considering follows on from L 150, which we have just considered. The aim is the same, namely to combat tax havens and secure the Danish tax base and our common welfare against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. It is, in fact, an attack on our common welfare when tax havens allow global companies and wealthy people to escape tax evasion and to contribute to the financing of Danish society. In addition, it hampers confidence in our tax system and the public's belief that everyone pays the tax they have to pay, no more and no less. That is why our position is clear. We must combat tax havens as effectively as possible, and that is why, among other things, as was mentioned earlier today, we want to raise the standards of tax systems in the blacklisted countries. The purpose of this bill is to authorize the Government to terminate the double taxation agreement in force between Denmark and Trinidad and Tobago. The reason is that it is not in Denmark's interest to continue to have a double taxation agreement with Trinidad and Tobago. When it is not in Denmark's interest, it is due to three factors. First, Trinidad and Tobago has been on the EU blacklist since 2017. Therefore, it is not in our interest to have a double taxation agreement with the countries when, after several years, they have not corrected and made it possible to be withdrawn from the list. Secondly, the aims of Denmark's conclusion of double taxation agreements are that there must be a risk of double taxation, that there are important interests at stake in the country concerned and that there is a prospect of agreement between countries. This is not considered to be the case in the present situation. As you know, the purpose of this type of agreement is to avoid taxation of the same income twice. On the other hand, we are not supposed to risk that income is not taxed at all. Thirdly, termination is a prerequisite for the application to Trinidad and Tobago of the defensive measures against countries on the EU blacklist that we discussed earlier today and which follow an EU decision. This prevents the current double taxation agreement and therefore termination is the only effective means of introducing defensive measures. In addition, it is the Treasury's assessment that Danish industry does not have significant business interests in Trinidad and Tobago. Summing up, therefore, the draft law helps to ensure that we comply with our own considerations and standards of double taxation agreements. At the same time, we allow defensive measures to be implemented so that they are encouraged in Trinidad and Tobago to change their laws and regulations so that they can no longer be used for aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. Finally, we are sending out an important signal to the international community that we in Denmark attach great importance to international tax standards and expect them to be respected. Social democracy supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135619	There is a question from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135622	Thank you. I would just like to ask, as a matter of principle, whether it really is not an advantage for Denmark that we have as many double taxation agreements as possible with different countries, because they have the multiple effect of not having double taxation, as it is called, but also of avoiding double non-taxation, and also of exchanging information with these countries, so that we can ensure that we have the right taxation in the countries, i.e. if the rapporteur does not agree that this is in fact an extremely good tool in the fight against tax havens. And if the rapporteur can nod that it is actually a good tool in principle, why is it that we have to terminate the agreement? On the contrary, should this not be an update of the agreement instead? I think it is one-sidedly good that we have as many as possible, so why is it that we are going in the very opposite direction and are going to terminate the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135715	Yes, it is absolutely right, as the rapporteur says, to have these double taxation agreements when it makes sense. But, as I think I am quite well aware, it is no longer in Denmark's interest to have this agreement with Trinidad and Tobago.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135735	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135736	I think that is also where the disagreement comes in. Because I think it is one-sided and always in Denmark's interest to have these agreements. Some years ago, by mistake, we abandoned one with Spain and France, and we are still struggling with the aftermath of that, because it actually turned out that it was really stupid to terminate that agreement. And I think the same thing's gonna happen here. I think that Parliament's business must be that we have as many agreements as possible, both to ensure that double taxation does not happen, but also to ensure that there is no double non-taxation. In other words, it is almost one of the most effective tools in the fight against tax havens, which is why it is just surprising that we are now moving in the opposite direction and proposing that we remove these agreements, since, as the rapporteur also confirms, it is such an effective tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135818	Well, we have to take the lead in the fight against aggressive tax planning and tax havens, and the point of this bill is precisely that the prerequisites for us to be able to implement these defensive measures for countries on the EU blacklist, which we discussed with the previous bill, are that we no longer have this double taxation agreement with Trinidad and Tobago, so it makes good sense to terminate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135849	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. We welcome the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225135909	Thank you, President. I personally have dealt with double taxation agreements many times through my business activity, and this is a very effective way of regulating taxation in two countries in a way that is fair for both countries. That is why we must always seek agreements, try to improve agreements and rarely terminate agreements. With those eyes, I'm gonna look at this bill. In the Left, we believe that we must do a great deal, as much as possible, to combat tax havens and, of course, we support initiatives aimed at protecting against tax evasion and avoidance. It's precisely these two parts that are an offense, where you almost have to go every way to avoid these things. And we fully agree with the intention of these robust international tax rules, which ensure against aggressive tax planning. Having said that, I also think it is important to check whether the proposal that lies here does so. In fact, we are in doubt about that. We have doubts as to whether the termination of that agreement actually means that we are protecting against tax evasion and avoidance. That is why, until we have the answer to our questions, we will be unsolved in this matter and we will be asking a lot of questions that will clarify these matters. We also see in the consultation answers that there is a concern, as it were, among all business organisations. And why is that? Then it can be said that it is in their interest. No, it's not. Companies have no interest in the fact that we do not fight tax havens. Let's make this clear right away. In order to have fair competition, we also need transparent tax systems and all these things, so our companies have a huge interest in this being done properly. And when they say that they are concerned that we are terminating a double taxation agreement, we must always be careful about doing so. That is why we also think it is right to think about sitting back and hearing whether there are no other ways to do it; whether we could perhaps have a dialogue instead of and perhaps make less restrictive sanctions in this context. I also think it is important to point out that this double taxation agreement is an effective way of exchanging information. In fact, we risk that by terminating this agreement, we will no longer be able to obtain information about Danish citizens and companies in the country, and thus this termination will actually lead to those who want to cheat just being able to cheat even more. Well, actually, those who cheat will just say thank you and use the tax haven to a greater extent. And I don't want that to happen. I'm saying we have to think carefully when we make these resignations. The Left is in doubt and we are unsolved, and that is why we are going to ask a lot of questions about this bill. It must be for the benefit of Denmark, it must be for the benefit of our companies that we do these things, and we want to be sure of that before we finally take a position on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225140329	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no questions, and we welcome Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225140352	Thank you. The bill is about terminating the double taxation agreement between Denmark and Trinidad and Tobago because it is on the EU blacklist. I understand the need to crack down on the use of tax havens and aggressive tax planning... that's what we fully share... but how do we get to where we do it? Is the solution really that we should terminate double taxation agreements? Is the solution not more natural, that it is the opposite of what the draft law proposes, that is, that we enter into double taxation agreements? For the purpose of the agreements is, as the first in the name says, that there is no double taxation, i.e. that, for example, there is no double taxation. a pensioner is not taxed both in Denmark and in the other country, or companies are taxed double by their profits, but it is also the case that there is no double non-taxation, in other words where there is such aggressive tax planning. These agreements are also used to ensure that information is exchanged between countries, which is something that is quite effective in combating aggressive tax planning. So I really want to ask whether it would not be much better for us to actually have these agreements. I think the objective must be that we have as many of these agreements as possible, and I would almost venture to claim that if we had a double taxation agreement with all the countries of the world, the problem of tax havens was solved. Because then I actually think it was so effective that there was no problem left. So I simply think it is wrong to go in the fight against tax havens to terminate the agreements and instead to conclude more agreements. We also had to see whether we could get some back with Spain and France, which, however, many years ago, even before my time, we ended by mistake, we have to say today. If, at last, there are problems with this agreement because, after all, one has to admit, is old, then one must enter into a dialogue with the country to get it updated. But the solution is not to cancel it. I can also see that the consultation answers say, and the business community says the same thing, namely that there is a predictability for them, that there are double taxation agreements with as many countries as possible throughout the world, and this is therefore just a step in the wrong direction. So in the Danish People's Party, we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225140603	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225140621	Thank you. This bill follows from L 150 on sanctions against countries on the EU blacklist. It is important that we get rid of the aggressive tax planning and use of tax havens that exist both in Denmark, in the EU and outside. The draft law also makes it possible to sanction Trinidad and Tobago, which is on the EU's blacklist. This is necessary in order to ensure better tax practices globally. After all, in my previous rapporteur's speech I referred to a number of concrete proposals to combat tax havens, and I will not repeat myself here, but just say that I hope that the government will follow up on this as well. The SF supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225140700	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kathrine Olldag, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225140723	Thank you, President. In the Radical Left, of course, we are also sorry that we have to terminate this double taxation agreement. Because that is quite right, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also says that the more, the better. But when you make an agreement, there are two parties that enter a contract room, and if one partner then doesn't behave as agreed, you have to draw a line in the sand and thus signal to the partner: Unfortunately, we can't be friends anymore; you have to upgrade your internal systems, you have to look at your legislation, you have to look at your practice, otherwise we can't have this agreement with each other. So resignation is, after all, a political tool for putting political pressure on a country that needs to look through its systems. We also fully understand that, and that is why, in connection with this proposal for a directive, I would like to reiterate the call made in the last round, namely that we, as tax rapporteurs, can enter a space and that we may even set up a working group to look at how we can upgrade our development aid in relation to tax. It may be that Trinidad and Tobago can come back in a targeted effort, perhaps through the World Bank or the European Union, etc. is working hard to bring Trinidad and Tobago in. Because it is certainly not a pirate country with bad intentions, but simply a question of not having the resources to live up to the principles of this agreement. So, of course, we support the proposal and we also think it is a pity, but let us try to look at how we can help both Trinidad and Tobago in the future, but also other developing countries into this area of double taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225140905	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225140908	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I know the rapporteur as a very pragmatic person, and I know that in all other contexts something needs to be done before the rapporteur just wants to say: I am terminating cooperation. And I think that it will be seen as a rather hostile act and perhaps not as the best start to try to move someone in a direction that one would like to have. In conclusion, does the rapporteur really believe that the best way to go is to say goodbye and thank you and then start a new debate from there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225140949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225140950	The hand on the heart, I don't know the history of how it has been stretched out in order to put in order the things that have been flawed. I note that for some years Trinidad and Tobago have been on the blacklist, and that alone should perhaps have motivated the country to work for a more transparent tax system. We need to find out in committee what has gone before this, and we can ask questions about this together. It could be interesting enough to try to break that history. But I fully agree that the way to put political pressure on this matter is to terminate the agreement from now on and then take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225141036	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225141037	I noticed that the rapporteur was talking about a working group and that sounds interesting, because there is something in principle about terminating an agreement, about what one gets out of terminating the agreement and what one does not get out of it. We can, for example. As far as Spain and France are concerned, we have still not resolved this and I am in favour of Spain and France being something other than Trinidad and Tobago. But there is something in principle about terminating an agreement, about whether we get any of it, so we could talk about that further.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225141108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225141109	I'm glad. With regard to a working group, I would like to make it clear that I am talking about it in a development perspective; it is actually to mix development policy and tax policy together to see if we can find out what is in the space that might be interesting to come together about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225141123	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions, and we're going to go over to Mr. Knox's office. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225141200	After all, there are many people who are changing parties at the moment, and that changes the rapporteur's line in here; it may create a little confusion. From the Enhedslisten side we support that bill, and we do so because we have always had the fight against tax havens as one of our absolute highest priorities, and we are very pleased that we are starting to look at whether it makes sense for Denmark to have double taxation agreements with countries that are obviously tax havens. In relation to Trinidad and Tobago, which is, after all, a southern neighbour of Barbados, which was also part of the discussion on the L 150 bill, that is to say on the defensive measures, one has to say that the defensive measures we hope will adopt by L 150 will not work against Trinidad and Tobago unless the double taxation agreement is terminated. Having said that, however, I must also say that this draft law will hardly have the great effect, if you may say so, because when we look at the international NGO Tax Justice Network, which is one of the leading organisations in the fight against tax havens, and their index of the worst tax havens in the world, Trinidad and Tobago is not one of the countries that has the greatest importance here. So if we really had to do something in the fight against tax havens, double taxation agreements would have to be terminated with some of the worst tax havens with which we now have double taxation agreements. I think it might be interesting to look at whether this is not a path we could go down, and at least look at setting up at least some rules on the requirements for us to conclude new double taxation agreements, because it does not make sense to conclude double taxation agreements with tax havens. In fact, I would like to comment on two points that have been raised here in the debate. One is whether there is any harm in terminating a double taxation agreement in this area, and the short answer to that is: No, it does no harm because it basically does not make sense to have a double taxation agreement with countries where no tax is paid. Then it is simply a waiver of our own tax law, which undermines our tax system and strengthens a tax haven. It simply makes no sense as a starting point. The second is whether information exchange agreements can be concluded when double taxation agreements are terminated. Yes, it can be done because there are information exchange agreements, even if there is no double taxation agreement. These tax havens will typically be covered by the framework agreements within the OECD in relation to a rule on the exchange of tax information. So it is simply a question of basically: why should we have double taxation agreements with countries where taxes are not paid? It is merely the granting of our own tax law, and we should look at which other double taxation agreements should be terminated, and we should establish criteria for what is needed to conclude double taxation agreements with other countries at all, which we should basically not do with tax havens. So, of course, Enhedslisten supports this bill. It is a small but a good step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225141518	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. We're gonna have to get the booze off up here, sir. Rune Lund. Then it is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, Conservative, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225141554	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we would very much like to help ensure international tax rules that effectively stem tax fraud and aggressive tax planning. However, as I mentioned earlier, we are not, of course, going blindly into legislation until there is an answer to the many questions raised in connection with this draft law. There have been some very relevant questions in the consultations, and we would like to have them examined in more detail. For example, Danish Occupation states that the fact that a country is on the EU blacklist does not initially have to lead to the termination of the double taxation agreement. Instead, it should be possible to impose less restrictive sanctions on the country concerned. One possibility, for example, could be to adopt a protocol which temporarily restricts the scope of the double taxation agreement or temporarily repeals the double taxation agreement. Therefore, the Danish Occupation also asks the Ministry of Taxation whether the Ministry has been in dialogue with Trinidad and Tobago to find a solution that could replace the double taxation agreement until Trinidad and Tobago had been removed from the EU blacklist and the Ministry has not been. It is also questionable that the EU blacklist is used as a basis for termination, as the list is extremely dynamic and in its relatively short lifespan has had several different countries on the list. If all countries on the list are to have terminated the double taxation agreements, it is feared that, as a logical consequence, double taxation agreements with countries which are important for both Danish companies and citizens will have to be terminated. So a number of relevant issues are raised again, which we would like to dig deeper into, and some worrying aspects which we would like to see clarified before we take a final position on the legislative proposal. So I look forward again to a thorough examination of the proposal by the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225141808	We thank the rapporteur. Thank you for that, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225141827	I'll be brief. We should not have fewer double taxation agreements, we should have more, so New Citizens think this is a bad proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225141835	I guess it's gonna work out just when nothing's touched up here. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225141845	Thank you for that and thank you for receiving the proposal here. As we have just discussed in connection with the discussion of L 150 on defensive measures against tax havens, the fight against tax evasion and avoidance and aggressive tax planning is a priority for the government, and so is this bill, because it is another part of that struggle. This is an important battle that ultimately helps to ensure our common welfare. It is not fair that large global companies and wealthy people do not pay their taxes and hence their share of the financing of our common society. The use of tax havens also damages the tax morality of society and the basic trust that everyone pays the tax to which they are obliged. This proposal then proposes that the government be authorized to terminate the existing double taxation agreement between Denmark and Trinidad and Tobago. The reason for the bill is that since 2017, Trinidad and Tobago have been on the EU's list of non-cooperating tax jurisdictions, which will also be remembered as the blacklist of tax havens. As a result, the Government no longer considers that it is in Danish interests to have a double taxation agreement with Trinidad and Tobago. This is mainly due to the fact that it is contrary to the general considerations normally pursued by Denmark when concluding double taxation agreements, namely that Denmark does not have a double taxation agreement with a tax haven. The Danish policy of negotiation in the field of taxation is today based on a number of broad lines. These aims imply that there must be significant Danish interests in the country with which the negotiations are being conducted and that there must be a risk of double taxation. This means that the purpose of concluding a double taxation agreement is to avoid taxation of the same income twice, but not to ensure that an income is not taxed at all on the contrary. Finally, there must be the prospect of countries reaching agreement. I have to say that I find it difficult to imagine that we would be able to reach an agreement if today we started negotiations with Trinidad and Tobago based on these lines. In addition, the proposal to terminate the double taxation agreement must be seen in the context of the draft law we were discussing just now, that is, L 150, on defensive measures. After all, with the L 150, it is proposed that sanctions should be imposed on countries on the EU blacklist. The aim of these defensive measures is, after all, to put common pressure on countries on the blacklist to introduce tax rules and measures to ensure that they comply with international tax standards and good tax practice in the future. The double taxation agreement currently prevents defensive measures from being implemented against Trinidad and Tobago, and that is not appropriate. It is also a country in which Danish companies do not have significant business interests. Although the bill will only allow the government to terminate the double taxation agreement with Trinidad and Tobago, with the termination of this double taxation agreement, we will send a clear signal to other countries that it is essential for Denmark that all countries comply with the international standards which are now applicable in the field of taxation. I hope, of course, that the draft law will be adopted and that it will also be adopted as soon as possible, because then it will allow us to initiate the termination of the double taxation agreement with the aim that the termination will then take effect from 1 January 2022, after which it will be possible to implement the defensive measures against Trinidad and Tobago, thereby helping Trinidad and Tobago to amend their rules so that they can be removed from the blacklist. In those words, I would like to thank you for the debate. This is an important debate, and this is the proposal, which, nicely said, is relatively targeted, as well as a very good expression of it. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142329	There are a few questions. First, it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142333	Thank you. That is an interesting suggestion. Now we do not have the best experience in the Left in terminating double taxation agreements. We did this with Spain and France, and we have had major problems with getting some new ones instead. That is why I am always very attentive when it comes to proposing the termination of double taxation agreements. I fully agree with the Minister that tax havens must be stopped. After all, no one can benefit from tax havens, and that is why, when we have been in government, and also when we have been in opposition, the Left has fought against tax havens. When the Minister then says that the Minister wants to avoid Danish wealthy people placing money in tax havens, I want to hear the Minister how many Danes have placed money in Trinidad and Tobago and are using tax havens there. How many people do the Minister know there is, or how many suspect the Minister there is? My second question is: do I just want to know whether the Minister has had contact with Trinidad and Tobago to make them change it and focus on this? And my third question is this: how do Trinidad and Tobago respond to the question of whether they will respond to some of the concerns of the Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142438	I am not in a position to say how many Danes have hidden money in Trinidad and Tobago. I guess that's what it's meant to do if they have it. So, unfortunately, I cannot comment on that, but I can say so much that the government would like to step up its efforts to avoid it. And that is what the proposal we were discussing just now should help to secure. Secondly, there has been dialogue within the EU with Trinidad and Tobago. It is, of course, with countries that are on the blacklist, and it is basically about making them understand that they have to work with transparency in tax legislation, and it is about ensuring it. The European Union says very, very clearly that we want it and that we mean it seriously. I myself have not been in dialogue with Trinidad and Tobago. After all, we are part of EU cooperation. There's a blacklist, and you can discuss what we did before it's quite fair, but there's a regime here, if you want, that helps set the framework for this collaboration, and that's what Denmark's leaning on in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142538	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142539	Okay, so you haven't had any contact with Trinidad and Tobago to see if you could get them to change things before you terminate the double taxation agreement. But there the Minister says that it is because it is in the European Union that we are doing these things. Is it so common in the European Union that the double taxation agreement is terminated, and has it been in contact with Trinidad and Tobago to ensure that a double taxation agreement is re-established in the future? After all, a double taxation agreement is not about avoiding tax payments. It's just that you pay the right tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142610	Yes, and to ensure that taxes are paid. That's the point. That's why this is the right choice from the government's point of view. We do not think we have any interest in having an agreement with Trinidad and Tobago. There has been dialogue through the European Union. The signals have been very, very clear and therefore the conclusion as it is from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142636	Then it's mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142639	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister for Bills and Explanations. We in the Left, as I said, are very committed to combating tax havens and combating them effectively, and we are in doubt whether terminating an agreement is to combat tax havens effectively. Then I can hear the Minister saying that they have not even spoken to those with whom the agreement is terminated. I think that may be a little doubtful. Can you imagine that it could even happen in any other field, that you cancel an agreement and have not even considered and do not even bother to talk to those with whom you terminate the agreement? I don't think you could imagine that. But does it not give the Minister any idea that the business community is saying that this is a matter of concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142741-2	No, not really, to be honest. The points of view do not surprise me, and that is quite fair. We believe that it is right to do what we do. Sometimes the discussions we have with other countries to follow the targets and pointers that we have must also reach a conclusion, and that is what is happening now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142809	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142810	Thank you. There are many questions that will be asked afterwards. However, I do not recall the Minister's reply to my colleague Louise Schack Elholm's question as to how many of the other countries have terminated the agreement. Now I understand that there has been a dialogue in the European Union, so the Minister must know. How many of the other countries have actually terminated this agreement or are about to terminate the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142842	Well, double taxation agreements are something Denmark makes with that country itself; they are adopted here in the Folketing if we are to make one with X country. So we are reacting to how a country has reacted, whether the questioner will, to the discussions we have had in EU cooperation with that country, for example, to promote transparency in its tax policy and its treatment of tax information and other matters. We have concluded that this has not been satisfactory enough and therefore we do not think that there is any basis for Denmark to have a double taxation agreement with the country concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142920	Then we say thank you to the tax minister. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142943	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Troels Ravn as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225142954	Thank you for the floor. The bill we are now considering consists of five parts. The first three I would like to mention are the implementation of the Finance Act between the Government, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. In addition, there are two measures which aim to contain and mitigate the spread of covid-19 in Danish society. The government, together with a broad section of the Danish Parliament's parties, has undertaken a major fiscal effort to hold hands under Danish companies and employees. This has helped to mitigate the economic side of the corona crisis and to support the recovery of the Danish economy. Today, we are going to deal with a number of these stimuli that were agreed in the framework of the 2021 Finance Act. Firstly, it is proposed to temporarily relax the housing job scheme in 2021, so that the ceiling for services is raised to 25,000 DKK, and the deduction value is increased to approximately 35%. in services. The ceiling for craft services is raised to 25,000 DKK and this will help to increase activity in the service sector, which can help absorb some of the available labour. At the same time, it will support investments in the green conversion of housing stock, which is a bottom-up task compared to achieving the 70-percent objective. No change shall be made to the amount of benefits deductible. As I said, this is a temporary relaxation in the light of the covid-19 situation, which is only applicable in 2021. This is, for example, the case. on gift cards that can be used for hotels, restaurants, rides, including museums, theatres and cinema performances. In other words, it is a measure that is targeted at the experience economy, which has been and continues to be hard hit by the corona crisis. This is also a temporary relaxation applicable for 2021, which should be seen in the light of the covid-19 situation. Thirdly, a reduction in the special contribution paid by gambling providers to horse racing is proposed so that the increase in the general fee on betting and online casino does not increase the overall tax burden on betting on Danish horse racing. In addition to the general betting fee, horse racing providers today pay a special market contribution to horse racing of 8%. of the bet on betting on Danish horse racing. The increase in the tax on betting and online casino from 20%. 28 per cent. in isolation, risks influencing the efforts made by game providers to offer horse racing, which would affect the overall economy of horse racing in Denmark. And that is why the special market contribution for horseplay providers is proposed to be reduced from 8%. to 6%, so that the total tax burden on betting on Danish horse racing is maintained and does not exceed the tax burden on other betting. In addition to the three elements I have now mentioned, which translate parts of the 2021 Finance Act, there are two further steps in the draft law. Both aim to help contain the spread of the coronasmit and help us to keep the activity in parts of society as high as possible. Firstly, it is proposed to exempt all employer-paid covid-19 tests and protective equipment. It supports employers' efforts to contain and limit the spread of covid-19. Secondly, it is proposed that the covid-19 aid received under an aid package, which has been repaid within three years of receipt, should also be exempt from tax. If only some of the aid has been repaid after three years, this share will be exempt from tax. Thus, companies risk not having a tax bill for an amount that has been repaid. These are therefore two changes which support companies' ability to look after their employees and keep activity as high as possible under the current restrictions, and this gives them a certainty that they will not have to pay tax on the recovery of aid if they come into a position where appropriate. Social democracy supports the proposal and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225143420	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225143446	Thank you so much. It is quite unfamiliar on last year's Finance Act, where everything was about tax increases, that here comes a bill for the government's Finance Act for this year, when the government has got the whole red block to support a number of tax cuts, and that is something we are in favour of too. The first is a temporary relaxation of the housing job scheme, which means, as the previous rapporteur said, that more use can be made of the housing job scheme this year. We think it is positive because we believe that the housing job scheme helps to counteract undeclared work, and we think it is very positive that we can do so and that we can get the wheels going that way. So that part we think is really positive. Then there is a proposal for a tax exemption on employers' gift cards for experiences, and we are also positive about that. It's a relief, and the experience industry has suffered a lot last year. I think they lost 33 billion. kr. Last year, both because of corona and because of the restrictions we have had at home, but we are going to ask some questions about the bureaucracy in it, i.e. how it is going to be linked, and about the concrete definition of what exactly is going to apply here. For it is clear that there is quite a wide range in who has been affected by the restrictions. Then there is a tax exemption and deduction right for employer-paid covid-19 tests and personal protective equipment. This is one of the things we ourselves have been putting pressure on the government to meet, so we are actually very positive about that. We would have liked to see the government also include vaccines if companies would actually like to finance vaccines for their employees. It is also something that will benefit all of Denmark, and therefore one should not be taxed by it. So I think that could have been included in the proposal, and that is also some of what we will be asking about in committee. There is also a tax exemption on covid-19 aid, which is being repaid, and we think that is fine as well. And then there is a reduction in the percentage of the special contribution to horse racing. It is therefore the money that the game part of the race sport must pay for horse racing. It is reduced from 8%. That is quite a good thing. This is because attempts are being made to solve the problem created by the Finance Act of the previous year, which raised the gambling tax by 8%. It is true that a number of years ago we chose to say that we wanted to make a new model for horse racing so that it could rest in itself, by getting the money that they got out of horse racing, and that they could play with themselves on the trotting lanes and the like. It was intended to be a rest in itself, but with the increase in the gaming fee from 20%. 28 per cent. That is why we are now making this proposal, which reduces the share to be paid for horse racing itself, and, on the other hand, the horse racing sport is once again on the budget. We're glad you're helping the horse racing sport. There's no doubt about that; we're really glad you're helping the horse racing sport, but we're sorry it's because you started destroying it. So we would have preferred to see the tax rolled back, because it is not only horse racing that is affected by the increased gambling tax. There are plenty of hits, among others. SIFA TVBingo in North Jutland, which has problems in relation to the money they distribute to voluntary organisations in Aalborg. So this solves only a small part of the problem created by the Finance Act of the previous year, and that is what we may be a little worried about. But we are glad that, after all, a way has been found to help horse racing. Overall, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225143831	Thank you. This did not give rise to brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We're gonna have to get the booze off here on the platform. There are so many new habits that need to be rehearsed. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225143903	The bill is about an agreement that has been made to stimulate the Danish economy.I think it was on the Finance Act last year that Dansk Folkeparti was not in the process and you want to stimulate the economy against the background of the covid-19 crisis. It is written in the speech, I think it was that you want to keep your hand under Danish families and employees who are affected by the crisis. The question then is whether that is what you are doing, i.e. whether you are holding hands under those who are affected by the crisis. Firstly, the proposed amendment to the bill is to increase the housing job scheme • only in 2021, the deduction for what is called services is increased to 25,000 DKK and the deduction value is increased to 35 per cent. Then there is the ceiling of the craftsman's part, i.e. if you need some new insulation, or whatever it may be, which is also raised to 25,000 DKK. But you don't change the benefits you can get deducted from. This may seem very positive, but perhaps it is also here that the problem lies because when the text at the beginning of the bill says that you want to keep your hand under Danish families and employees affected by the crisis, then I have not just caught that it is the craft industry that is affected by the crisis. In fact, they are incredibly busy and it is very positive. I'm sure of it underneath them. But maybe it's not the kind of business you need to keep your hand under right now. After all, the Danes invest a great deal, because they have not spent money on holidays and going on restaurants, so they may build new greenhouses and outhouses and change roofs on the houses. So it's really gone by my nose that it's just the business that the hand needs to be held under right now. So I would really like to suggest that instead of looking at what it is you can then instead get deductions from the housing job scheme, because the housing job scheme is a great tool in such times, a business environment tool, so why not get some other benefits into the housing job scheme? It could be restaurants, inns or weekend trips, i.e. some of these industries, which are incredibly hard hit by the crisis, and which, after all, have had virtually no turnover for a year. So why not expand the list of things that can be deducted? I'm thinking that'll make a lot more sense. So, although it is really in a good sense that the housing job scheme is being extended and I recognise that it is a popular scheme out there, I still think it hits a little off, because it is not really them, the craftsmen, who have been affected in this crisis so far. So I think it should be targeted more. After all, this is done in the second part of the bill, which deals with the gift card at the maximum. 1,200 kroner, which you can get from your employer, and which is then deductible. After all, this is a target. Because these are hotels and restaurants and football matches and Royal Run, and all these things you can sign up for. This is, in fact, positive, so we support that part. Then there's a third part about the tax at stake. That is not something I want to go deeper into, but I would say that we also support it being reduced from 8 to 6%. A fourth element about tax exemption for employers to pay for covid-19 tests and protective equipment and something like that I really think makes a great deal of sense, because it is obvious that you also take responsibility for testing your employees before they enter the slaughterhouse or wherever it may be. But I have a little change I would like to make, because why is it just limited to the covid-19 test? Could it not be imagined that in a year's time there might be a need for people to say as a company: we would actually like to test voluntarily, not a forced test for the flu before people enter their workplace, or provide other protective equipment? Why is this all about Covid-19? Why not even wider? I really think it is good that companies want to take responsibility and ensure that you can have healthy employees, and that is of course also in your own interests, because you then avoid people being sick. But why is this corona virus alone? Why could it not just as well be a little wider by saying that, if you help your employees in this way, you will of course have to be deducted? But we can deal with this in committee. So all in all, we're positive about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225144254	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225144314	Thank you. The bill here contains quite a few elements, among others. the temporary extension of the housing job scheme in 2021 and the tax exemption of certain employer-paid gift cards to the experience economy in 2021. It follows from the Finance Act, and the purpose was to hold hands under Danish economy. In addition, the Finance Act must generally kick-start the green transition. Unfortunately, the Danish experience economy is still hard hit by corona. We also agree from the SF that the other elements of the draft law are appropriate, that is. the tax exemption for employer-paid covid-19 tests, personal protective equipment and amounts received as part of the corona relief packages, which shall be repaid within three years of receipt. The Danish companies and their employees are doing everything they can to eliminate corona, and it is important that we do what we can to help them. And companies who, after payment of eligible aid, consider that they can do without the money and therefore pay it back should not be left with a tax bill. SF supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225144418	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur from the Radical Left, Mrs Kathrine Oldag.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225144436	Thank you very much, President. This bill is such a mixed country deal of all sorts of good things. It exemplifies in every way what I usually say in my group, namely that whatever they go and deal around, it all ends in the tax field at some point, so I feel a bit like we tax rapporteurs a long way along the way is such a kind of swap team that always ends up getting the job or all the work and not credit for anything. It is in a way the most powerful, the most exciting and a bit along the way perhaps also a bit half boring. That's kind of what it is to be a tax rapporteur. I wouldn't do without it for everything in the world. First of all, this is about some of the things that come from the Finance Act, namely the housing job scheme and gift cards for the experience economy, and we are basically for that, of course. We have already agreed this, although the housing job scheme is not something that has grown in the radical backyard. The employer-paid covidtests also make a great deal of sense, and then I also know that there are more in horse races.I have several friends who will be really, really happy with the correction we put into this bill in relation to them. So all in all it's mixed candy, but also really delicious candy. There's a good time Friday candy, and we're for everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225144557	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225144614	I think it can be said that we were different parties negotiating finance law here a short time ago. The Enhedslisten is part of the 2021 Finance Act and part of the stimuli and green recovery agreement. This bill then deals with elements from the precisely stimuli package that we agreed in connection with the 2021 Finance Act, by the way, a Finance Act that was fantasticly good and which was better than the one we agreed for 2020, which in turn was the best financial law agreement for many years. We see in the financial agreements concluded that there is a real break in crisis policy, where we choose to invest out of the crisis rather than save ourselves to death and cut back, as we saw the bourgeois crisis policy, unfortunately also continued by Helle Thorning Schmidt and Bjarne Corydon from 2011-2015. But it was a crisis policy that extended and deepened the crisis, and there we now see a marked break. Although the Finance Act was so good, there are also elements that can be said to be of a nature that I must be quite honest to say is not Unity List Policy; there are things that we are simply less happy about. The reliefs in the housing job scheme are not a rose that has grown in Enhedslisten's garden. We are not and will never be in favour of the housing job scheme, even if it is only a temporary extension for a single year. Basically, we believe that the higher middle class and up, which are the ones who primarily use this scheme, have to pay for cleaning and craftsmen themselves. But it was part of an overall agreement where we also got through a lot of good things. We got, for example. 110% unemployment benefit rates for unemployed people who are retrained for a number of jobs, where we are in a shortage of labour, we were given pools for the green transition, among other things. sustainable construction, geothermal and the phasing out of oil and gas pine, and we were given money to set aside low-level soils and many other things. And then, in fact, we also got the money for the weakest groups in society to get gift cards for the experience economy. This applies both through social organisations, but also through the social and older sectors, among others. in the municipalities. So when we together made up the estate, there were actually a lot of good things and very massive prints from Enhedslisten in the Finance Act, and therefore we are also living with the elements of this bill, which may not exactly be Enhedslisten's cup of tea. Then there are also two other elements that are about covid-19 subsidies that are repaid and employer-paid covid-19 tests, and these are also two measures that we support. Enhedslisten votes for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225144905	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Merete Scheelsbeck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225144926	Thank you very much. As several rapporteurs have already mentioned, this bill proposes to relax the housing job scheme temporarily in 2021, so that the ceiling on services is raised to 25,000 DKK. and the ceiling for craft services is also raised to 25,000 DKK. The aim is to support the service industry and promote private green investment. It is also proposed to introduce a separate tax exemption in 2021 for gift cards with a limit of DKK 1,200 which can be used for hotels, restaurants and amusements, including museums, theatres and cinemas. The proposal is estimated to generate, in 2021 as a whole, less revenue of approx. 590 million kr. after retreat and behavior. Since we in the Conservative People's Party are not part of the financial law agreement, we have obviously not been involved in negotiating this agreement. If we'd been there, we'd probably have fought to make it look a little different. It would certainly have included some long-term economic measures to create some growth and some lasting jobs and ensure some economic growth in the longer term and not just here and now. We have put forward a well-thought-out financial bill that creates 34 000 permanent jobs and makes Denmark 36 billion. kr. richer. We do this through reforms that strengthen employment and tax cuts that make it more attractive to work and to invest in Danish jobs. Unfortunately, the government has chosen to let economic policy hump around on one leg with stimuli here and now and forgot the other leg, namely to secure our economy in the long term. In fact, the government goes the wrong way when we look at the years coming, which stands at 35 tax increases and an Arnepension, which allows healthy Danes to withdraw earlier from the labour market. Having said all that, we are nevertheless supporting economic stimuli, which are holding hands under tight industries which are under pressure due to closures. We are particularly pleased with the element of stimuli in the experience economy. This is a proposal that we in the Conservative People's Party have tabled in the past. Here the money will fall in a really dry place when these industries are opened up again. We are also pleased that the draft law's comments have been prepared so that summer houses, holiday resorts, package holidays and, above all, sporting events are now included. In addition to the elements of the Finance Act, it is proposed to exempt employers' paid covid-19 tests and protective equipment, to guarantee employers the right to deduct costs of testing and protective equipment covered by the tax exemption and to exempt covid-19 aid, which has been repaid no later than 3 years after receipt. These are all initiatives that we in the Conservative People's Party can support, and on that basis we are voting in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225145243	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225145257	As a representative of the bourgeois part of the Danish Parliament, we may sometimes have the very small bourgeois part of the Danish Parliament, but we sometimes have the task of criticizing the government when it becomes too socialist. This proposal makes it a little more difficult to criticize the government for having a socialist agenda. So how do you criticize the government for this proposal? I've looked into it a little bit, and all I can find is that it's gonna be incredibly much harder for me to find a carpenter if I'm gonna have something done. There is a shortage of carpenters out there, there is a shortage of craftsmen, and now you increase that deduction. I'd say I'd have screwed it up a little differently. You could have introduced these tax cuts somewhere else. It's not that I can't undo the craftsmen to have something to do, but they have a lot to do. So I think you could have used this deduction a little better on something else, but it's a deduction, and it helps the Danes to make it cheaper. So I'm also gonna let the tax minister out of criticism here, and then I'm gonna have to look for a carpenter a little longer before I get one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225145414	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either, and no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, so we have reached the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225145431	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for the unanimous acceptance of a very, very large part of the Financial Act. We are incredibly happy about that. Thank you for helping us spend money next time, and you will also just have to remember to help pay the bill; we can do that, but that is so different responsibility. That is why I think I would just like to express my thanks for the support for the legislative proposal here, because it is important. This is a legislative proposal which follows on from the work that we have to say fairly well along the way together, in order to try to ensure that our small country gets as far as possible through the terrible time of crisis that we are still in, both the health crisis and the economic crisis. It has been crucial for the government that we ensure that we get through the challenges that the Covid-19 pandemic creates for us in the best possible way, and we have, of course, implemented in a broad majority a number of initiatives to help companies and employees through the crisis, and this has had an effect both in the short and long term. In the short term, by 2020, we have held our hands together in terms of nearly 80 000 jobs. In the field of taxation, with the latest we have done, we have provided liquidity in the order of 470 billion. kr. Fortunately, that is a long way from everything that has been used, but the opportunity has been there. In particular, the active financial and economic policy, which has been pursued particularly with the parliamentary basis, also has a long-term effect, and with that policy we have clearly focused on keeping a close eye on the fact that long-term unemployment did not start to rise and that youth unemployment did not start to settle down either. It is absolutely essential that we avoid these things as part of the crisis management process. And with the agreement on the budget law for 2021, which the government has made together with the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, we have agreed to continue the line in which we are holding hands under Danish families and employees and ensuring that as many people as possible get through the crisis as well as possible. And the two initiatives we are discussing here today, namely the relaxation of the housing job scheme and the tax exemption for employers' paid gift cards for experiences, are in addition to that. As I said, it is proposed temporarily, in 2021, to relax the housing job scheme so that the ceiling for services is raised to 25,000 DKK. and the deduction value is increased to approx. 35% for services. The ceiling for craft services is raised to 25,000 DKK. The aim is to support the service industry and promote private green investment. As I said, the relief must be seen in the context of the covid-19 situation, and this is therefore a temporary relaxation, which applies only in the year we are in now, i.e. 2021. The tax exemption for gift cards is then also granted for experiences, and therefore it is proposed to introduce a separate tax exemption in 2021 for gift cards with a limit of DKK 1,200, which can be used for hotels, restaurants and rides such as. museums and theatre and cinema performances. The tax exemption aims to support the experience industry on a temporary basis in 2021. This is one of three initiatives to stimulate the experience economy, in the agreement on the budget law for 2021. The other two initiatives provide support for the experience industry through civil society efforts for vulnerable and vulnerable citizens and through activities in the social and older sectors, and they are not included in this proposal, but thus help to ensure that we also support the experience industry. As has also been suggested, the agreement on the budget law for 2021 also includes a reduction in the special contribution paid by gambling providers for horse racing, from 8 to 6%. In addition to the three elements mentioned in the Finance Act, it is also proposed to exempt all employer-paid covid-19 tests and protective equipment. At the same time, it is ensured that there can be no doubt about employers' right to deduct in respect of the costs of testing and protective equipment covered by the tax exemption. As I said, the goal is to ensure that our joint management of covid-19 can ensure that we can keep the activity going in as many parts of Danish society as possible, while at the same time keeping the infection down, and that is why we want with these measures both to contain the spread and also to mitigate the consequences of covid-19 for Danish society. Finally, it is proposed to exempt from tax covid-19 aid, which has been repaid within three years of receipt. The tax exemption of aid received under an aid package resulting from the covid-19 must prevent the taxpayer from holding a tax bill even if the amount has actually been repaid. With the proposal, aid received under an aid package resulting from the covid-19 will be tax-free when the taxpayer repays the amount no later than 3 years after receipt. If only part of the aid is recovered, the proposal provides for tax exemption for the part of the aid which has been recovered. Thank you for your unanimous support for a very good proposal, which has both growth and coherence, and which makes Denmark better through the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225150052	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210225150105	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 26 February 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
