ParlaMint-DK_20211222090006	The meeting is open. From a member of the Folketing Signe Munk (SF), who is on leave, I have received notification that from 1 January 2022 she can again meet at the Tinget. Karste Filsøs (SF) shall cease to be a member of the Folketing as from that date. From a member of the Folketing of Bjørn Brandenborg (S), who is on leave, I have received notification that from 2 January 2022 he can again meet at the Tinget. Alexander Grandt (S) as a temporary member of the Folketing, acting as deputy to Bjørn Brandenborg (S), shall cease to exist from that date. However, since Alexander Grandt (S) is second deputy to the Social Democratic Party of Funen, he is now best entitled to continue as a temporary member on the occasion of the leave announced on 14 October 2021 to Tanja Larsson (S), which he has declared himself willing to do. This is because the first and second deputy in the Sjællands Storkreds did not wish to enter, that the 3rd deputy in the Sjællands Storkreds has already entered Mette Gjerskov's leave, and that the 1st deputy for Fyns Storkreds did not wish to enter. From 2 January 2021 onwards, Kim Aas' (S) will cease to be a member of the temporary staff on the occasion of Tanja Larsson's (S) leave. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 104 (Proposal for a law amending the law on maternity leave. Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 105 (Proposal for a Law amending the Personal Tax Act. Bill No. L 106 (Proposal for a law amending the VAT law (Amendment of the rules on authorship and artistic activities, used VAT, VAT refunds and exemptions for diplomats and adjustments to the rules on education and tourist sales, etc.)). Mona Juul (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 61 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the reduction of fraud and misleading of consumers in switching to electricity companies). Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 62 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on simplifying the rules on signs). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20211222090214	I would point out that both amendments and proposals can be commented on and that it will also be allowed to comment on the draft expenditure ceiling proposal in relation to L 2. The Minister for Finance has informed me that he wishes to withdraw Amendment No. 49, 113, 124, 130, 131, 223, 230, 232, 233, 241, 245, 267, 268, 351, 435, 610-612 and 615 remain. And the Left has informed me that they want to withdraw Amendment No. Sixty-four to go. Does anyone wish to accept these amendments? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. That opens the debate. First, it's sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222090319	Thank you. Two and a half years ago, the Danes set a new course. The election in 2019 was a climate choice. Young people took the lead and demanded green action. That message was heard. The Social Democratic government was formed on the world's probably most ambitious and green climate vision: 70%. CO 2 Now, after two and a half years of intensive work, negotiations and armaments, we have 8 years before the deadline with over 50 agreements with each other brought us more than halfway to that goal. I would like to express my thanks to the parties that have undertaken that task with the government. With the pace and ambitions of the green transition, we have moved away from the green realism of the Left, a concept which, in the last period of government, specifically covered the fact that the Left Government cancelled green objectives and which covered real black steps backwards in relation to, for example, the phasing out of coal and greenhouse gas reductions. We have moved away from a situation in which the former Left Government made a narrow agricultural agreement that did not address the nitrogen challenge. We have moved away from a situation in which Denmark, during the Left Government at the COP21 meeting in Paris, was appointed to today's fossil, a prize given to the country that had made the most negative remarks in that day. Instead of black setbacks, we are now rapidly taking green steps towards achieving the world's most ambitious climate target. Instead of narrow agreements where the nitrogen bill is postponed, we reach broad compromises on an ambitious green conversion of agriculture. Instead of this year's fossil, Denmark was voted the world's greenest nation at the most recent COP26 meeting in Glasgow. In two and a half years we have done away with the massive green failure of the Left when the Left was in government. Since we adopted our climate targets, we have repeatedly made broad agreements that bring us closer to the goal. I don't have to go through all the appointments here. But let me just point out that, overall, we have prioritised more than 85 billion. kr. to the climate since the parliamentary elections. That course continues with the Finance Act. We're investing 2.5 billion. kr. in new technology to reduce our CO2 We are building an additional 2 GW offshore wind towards 2030, a doubling of Denmark's current sea capacity. We build new sea winds enough to cover approx. 2 million Danish households' electricity consumption. Thank you to the SF, thanks to the Radicals, to the Enhedslisten, to the Alternative and to the Christian Democrats for contributing to a Green Finance Act. The 2022 Finance Act has been called boring. I really think that responsibility is a better and more appropriate word. Employment is record high. Unemployment is the lowest in 12 years. We stand at the highest growth rate in 15 years. The Danish economy is back on the development track that it had before the crisis. In other words, we do not get the permanent loss of wealth that Denmark had to collect after the financial crisis. There are not many countries in the European Union or in the world for that matter that can show better economic development than Denmark. Of course, this can also be seen in public finances. Denmark has come out of 2021 with a marginal government deficit, by the way, a deficit which is the smallest in the EU by lengths. We have come out with a level of debt approaching the pre-crisis level and a growing public net worth, which, moreover, is heading towards a record level. This is not least a result of the fact that the government, together with changing parties, has led a wise and responsible crisis policy which contributes to the fact that today there are almost 100,000 more Danes in work than before the corona crisis. I must say that I am happy that we did not listen to the bourgeois politicians who claimed that the government would debt Denmark beyond the brink of the abyss. Or the other favorite phrase, namely that we would take Denmark back to Mr. Anker Jørgensen's time. I am happy that instead we chose to invest our way out of the crisis. When the Danish economy thunders away, of course the fiscal task becomes another. That is why we have entered into a tight and responsible Finance Act, in which we lift the foot from the accelerator and move it onto the brake. With the phasing out of the artisan allowance and the postponement of a number of non-acoustic renovation tasks in the general sector, we are taking the pace out of those parts of the economy where the pace today is very high. Together with the expiry of a number of exceptional corona measures, it provides the significant fiscal tightening-up that is necessary and is also in the Financial Act of the year. There are still companies and industries that are experiencing difficulties and that will continue to be more difficult in a winter when we have had to re-introduce restrictions to limit the spread of infection. We must, of course, deal with this, and we have done so both with compensation packages and aid packages. However, it is important to make it clear that we have a strong starting point for getting through a winter that is going to be tough. The vaccine connection in Denmark is high, the economy is strong and public finances remain solid. With a responsible Finance Act, we have also found room for important welfare improvements. We are continuing to restore our welfare with good agreements with both municipalities and regions where we strengthen the economy. We improve conditions for children and young people with investment in primary school, investment in pedagogic education, investment in teacher training and by strengthening leisure education both in clubs and in sfos. We introduce free dental care for young people between 18 and 21 years of age, and we provide funds for dignified care for the elderly. And then we're gonna set off a billion dollars. kr. to health care. It's a temporary coronavinter package that's supposed to get the hospitals through a pressed winter. These are sensible measures that strengthen different parts of our community, but which are kept within a responsible framework, so that we avoid and counteract overheating of the economy. We have chosen to tackle the Corona crisis in a completely different way from the financial crisis. We see the results of that now. On the other hand, it is as if the bourgeois parties are still stuck ten years ago. At that time, the Left wiped out the bill for both the crisis and the major tax cuts to the richest of those who had had the hardest working life when they severely reduced the after-wage. Now the bourgeois parties are there again. Left and Conservatives will take a pension from Arne and 22,000 Danes, the Danes who have had the longest and hardest working life. Instead, we want to give top tax relief to those who already have the most. In a year where many broad settlements have otherwise been reached in the Folketing, I think this is one of the examples of considerable differences in Danish politics. I think that Mr Conservatives' chairman... Søren Pape Poulsen encapsulated it very well when he claimed that exactly the skilled and unskilled people who started working as teenagers and who have contributed to this society, built this society for more than 30 years, are withdrawing from other people's money. That remark is, for me, the strongest emphasis on the need and the need for Arne pensions to be a right. It is basically a question of dignity, as I see it. You shouldn't bend your head or submit to judgment when, after 40 years, you've made your contribution to building this society. For more than a hundred years and since Steincke's time, the Social Democratic Party has fought for rights rather than charity. We do not want to go back to a hatting society with alms, where those with the hardest jobs and the longest working life must stand with their hats in their hands and give up their sense of independence if they cannot manage all the way to retirement age. That is why I am also proud that 1 year and 1 day ago we sat here in the Danish Parliament and approved the Arnepension. Now it is the task to defend Arnepensionen against the bourgeois attacks, which are unfortunately being put in place. Danish economy is generally strong. We must continue to keep an ambitious and high pace in the green transition. We must invest in our welfare societies. We have to deal with the corona situation. We must ensure that companies and the economy have access to the labour force which is absolutely essential for maintaining a stable recovery. It must all take place within a responsible framework so that we avoid overheating. There are many tasks to be tackled for the Danish Parliament when we return from Christmas holidays. I look forward to the cooperation in the Danish Parliament on the crucial tasks for Denmark in the coming year. Thank you for the floor and Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091239	Yeah, it's gonna be a while before we have Christmas Eve, I just want to say. It's gonna be a little long, I guess. Now there are 45 minutes for short remarks. First, it's sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091253	Thank you. Thank you for your speech, and also thank you from me for working with the Social Democracy here in 2021. I should remember saying that from the beginning, so I remember signing for it, but I also planned to say a little about it in my speech. I understand that everything is fine. There are practically no problems at all. After all, there is the challenge that the lack of labour can make the economic recovery appear earlier than one might otherwise have hoped. We have now been sitting for three months and, it can be said, we have not really done anything but to attend a few meetings of the Ministry of Finance and the negotiations have not moved out of place. That is why I would like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether it is not an ambition for a political agreement to be reached as soon as possible and, in this context, whether the Social Democrats can say today in this Chamber, if you are going to look at raising, for example, the Social Democrats. The top tax limit a little, so you can get a bigger job offer, will say no to it. Is that a red line for Social Democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091359	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091403	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Troels Lund Poulsen begins his question by stating that everything is good. I must take that as a credit to the government. I also think that, when you look at the economy as a whole, that is quite reasonable. We are pleased with the way in which we have brought Denmark out of the corona crisis; the figures speak their clear language. But it is clear that there are always tasks to be solved, and one of those tasks is the need to provide more labour, in other words to strengthen structural employment. This is also why the government has put forward a proposal, a reform programme for the next 10 years of reforms of Denmark: Denmark can do more. There we have proposals which, overall, should strengthen structural employment by 10 000 people. It is worth noting that 10,000 people are being added to the quite substantial increase in the workforce that we are facing. It is essential, if we are to have a stable recovery, that we ensure it, and therefore it is also important that we keep the focus on the important negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091505	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091508	I do not know whether there is something wrong with the acoustics in the Parliamentary Chamber this early in the morning, or whether it is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen's ears, there's something wrong with both are really serious enough. Paragraph 1: I did not say that everything went well; I asked if there were no problems at all. I didn't get an answer to that. Paragraph 2: The labour force is being expanded. That's where I think sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen owes it to the Danish Parliament to say that the reason why the workforce is being expanded is the reform agreements made with changing governments, in which the Social Democratic Party has both opposed the early retirement agreement and also, for that matter, the benefit agreement. But what exactly is the Social Democratic debate going on? I've seen the game that you can call Denmark less than 0.0·, because there's nothing in it, other than that there are some suggestions that in the short run potentially make a difference. President. - Thank you very much. But what I asked was, do you have to make a deal? President. - Thank you very much for that.' What, then, about raising the top tax limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091600	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, the speaking time is well exceeded now. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091606	Well, it's time to make a deal. This is an absolutely crucial task, and it is a task that we share. I agree that there are reforms in the 2006 welfare agreement which are clearly the most important which contribute to an increase in structural employment, but this does not exempt us from taking further initiatives. I don't know if it's the hearing, or if it's Mr. Knox. Troels Lund Poulsen's ability to read, but the government's proposal gives 10,000 extra people on structural employment, and that is something which we would like to negotiate with the Left about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091640	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091648	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It is true that, when you look at the figures, it actually looks reasonable and that there is sensible growth. It may almost be surprising in the time we are in, with corona and everything else, but that is actually the way it is. The economy looks healthy. However, when you look at the challenges we face and look at one of our biggest clumps in the welfare society, what many measure our welfare society on the ground is that it is a health service that is completely kneeling and a health service that staff are very unhappy with being employed in. And one of the largest areas in the public sector is health care. That is why I am very surprised when you look at a Finance Act that it is not addressed at all. How does the government think you should get the job satisfaction back? How does the government think that citizens should have confidence that we have a health service that can actually deal with it, that we get sick, too, when we get sick by something other than corona? It is actually the case that now there are people who have been waiting for two years for a planned operation but have not had it done. And yet we see a bill that doesn't address it. So is it not a little embarrassing to stand on the platform and say that it has never been better when we have such a large sector that has such great challenges?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091749	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091752	If I hadn't known better, I'd have thought that mr. René Christensen was from Jutland when we look at an economy that strikes all records with 100,000 more who have come into work, and we have much lower unemployment than when we took over government power, and Mr. René Christensen then says that it is a sensible growth that we are looking at. That is certainly not an exaggeration. It looks quite reasonable. However, that does not alter the fact that Mr. René Christensen points to a major challenge, namely our health care system. After all, we took over a health service where too much was being run; we took over a health service such as the government, which Mr. René Christensen supported, had introduced a re-priority contribution for. That is why, in every agreement we have made with the regions, we have built up upstairs and lifted the economy considerably. I remember that, in connection with one of the first agreements, the President of the Left of the regions, Stephanie Lose, said that this was the greatest increase in the regions and thus in health care for 10 years. So, of course, there has been investment, but there is still a challenge that we need to look at, and that is also why the government wants to present a health reform and would very much like to make a broad agreement in that area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091857	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091900	Well, in fact, it may well be that the health services are located in the regions, but after all, we also have quite a lot of responsibility for this in here. And what we can see at the moment is that sickness absenteeism is increasing significantly and that staff are dissatisfied with being in their positions. The nurses are extremely frustrated and actually resign from their positions. I guess it's one of the biggest threats we're facing. In fact, I believe that the Danes very much measure the welfare of health care. We have equal access to health in Denmark, but we do not now, because it is actually the case that some people do not have access to the health to which they could claim to be entitled. That is why I just have to ask: does the rapporteur not think it is a pity that it has not been addressed in the context of the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091938	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222091942	I think that we are facing a considerable challenge in our health services, which we have a joint responsibility to address. I agree with Mr. René Christensen in. But it is wrong to say that we do not address it in our Finance Act. In addition to the fact that we have considerably upstairs and significantly lifted the economy of the regions and thus the health services over all the years, and also with the current financial law, we have invested significantly in our feeding times, where there is a strong race, and with the Finance Act we have created a temporary corona package of 1 billion. kr. the health service, which must go exactly to ensure retention and motivation to make an extra effort during a period of pressure. So to say that we have not addressed it, I think it is quite simply wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092018	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092025	Thank you. I called it the world's most boring financial law when the government made its proposal, and I am happy to say so. We in the SF do not think that investing in children, young people, the elderly, our birthplaces and green conversion is irresponsible. It is no longer so boring; I think it is a good result that we have jointly achieved, and I would also like to thank you for that today. One of the things I think we often talk about when the economy either goes too badly to invest or goes too well to invest is precisely how to step on the brake. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur a little bit about the helicopter and whether he does not agree that we can step on the brakes of a heated economy in several ways. You can do this by not investing, by not spending that much money, but you can do it by, for example, spending that much money. to raise some taxes or have some taxes that you think are reasonable, for example CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092129	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092133	Thank you for the question to the SF and Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen. I think we had a good and constructive cooperation on the Finance Act, and I agree that the final result is certainly not boring. I do not know whether it has ever been boring. Especially SF's very persistent and skillful and constructive focus on e.g. delayed school start and also the fact that we have fewer children in the smallest classes, has made us have a financial law that is reasonable and also an investment in the future of Denmark, because the children who now have better opportunities in their school are the labour that we have to live on in the future. So there are many good reasons why the Finance Act is not boring and that it has improved, also with the SF's intervention. Then it is true that we can do different things to ensure that we do not overheat the economy and have stable growth. One of the things we have done together is to postpone some non-acoustic investments in our general housing sector. This does not mean that we do not invest; it is just postponed. And then we've dropped the handicraft allowance. And then we have a joint task in relation to CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092237	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092240	Thank you. I do not think the rapporteur fully answered my question. However, let me go further: some of the funding proposals that the SF brought to the budget negotiations and which, in addition to helping to step a little on the brake in our eyes, had the second advantage that they helped to increase equality. After all, the Finance Act came out with a small but positive effect on the Gini coefficient, i.e. the equality in our society, and that is also important to us. But is this important to the Social Democratic Party? What will social democracy do next year to increase equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092316	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092319	I believe that the most important thing we can do from in here to increase equality and give everyone a good chance is to ensure that we have the right resources in our welfare societies. It is out there in the institutions and in the primary school classes that a difference can be made for those pupils and children who are having a difficult time. That, I think, is point 1. Paragraph 2 is to ensure that as many people as possible go to work every day. We are currently making economic progress, where we see that we are moving people from cash aid into the labour market, and that is absolutely crucial. And then, of course, we have also proposed to roll back the tax concessions that were granted on the largest shares in our reform proposals. It will also reduce inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092355	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092401	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I agree with many things. In particular, I agree that I myself am very pleased that a new majority came to power in June 2019, also because that majority has been responsible for a corona management which has meant that we have invested our way out of a crisis, and we have had a majority that has supported a necessary precautionary approach to health policy. I think it is my belief that Denmark would have been a different and worse place if a new majority had not come to power in the parliamentary elections in June 2019. It's a good finance bill we've made. We have a new welfare right in the form of a free dentist for the 18-, 19-, 20- and 21-year-olds. However, if I have to compare with the budget law for 2021, then we did deliver there on the prosperous demographic trait, and we are just below here, which means that the growth of public consumption, in terms of growth in society, is somewhat behind schedule. Couldn't we have done a little better?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092501	Thank you for your question, and also thank you for your constructive and good cooperation with Mr Seligman. Rune Lund and Enhedslisten. When we make deals in here, it's often that we screw on different screws, and that can be sensible. In fact, it is not so often that we are structurally expanding our welfare societies. And Enhedslisten has a very large share of the credit for doing so with this Finance Act, in terms of ensuring that the young people who in too large numbers do not go to dental care now get a tax-paid offer. Perhaps we should really talk a little more about this, namely that we are actually making the welfare society more and better in a structural way. I do not think that would have happened if we had had a different majority. That is why I also believe that Denmark has become a better country if we are to be a little solemn with this year's Finance Act. It is true, then, that the Enhedslisten, in relation to public sector consumption, would like it to be greater and that we spent more money on welfare. I could really share that ambition. I think there are areas where we need it. But there is also another consideration, namely overheating, which is absolutely crucial for the overall economy. That is the consideration that makes us have the balances in the Finance Act that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092606	Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092609	That is true, but that is where we could have chosen a debate from the negotiating room, as Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen can recognize, for example. to abolish the artisan allowance altogether, or we could have rolled back some of the tax rebates for the richest, which they have received for many years. After all, we would have taken air out of the economy in a socially fair way, but also in an economically responsible way, where, at the same time, there would have been room for the growth of public consumption to have followed the prosperity of society, which we actually delivered in 2020 and 2021. So, next year, are we not going back to the target from 2020 and 2021 again? I think that would look good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092646	Our objective in the Social Democratic Party is, in fact, a quite firm objective, because we have put forward a legislative proposal on precisely that in the form of the welfare law is, of course, that we at least cover the demographic trait. I have full understanding and respect that Enhedslisten would like more and is also willing to raise a number of taxes, including taxes that we are not interested in raising. This is one of the differences in Danish politics. I think we had a financial law made, which both made substantial investments and expanded the welfare state, an example of the teething measure, while at the same time landing on something that is financially responsible and balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092721	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092722	It is fun to hear the Social Democrats boast that Danish economy is doing well. It kind of reminds me of a kid sitting in a car in Tivoli. I mean, the baby's gonna be driving the wheel, but the tracks are laid by somebody else. The way the economy is going is not determined by the social democrats' turn on the steering wheel, but by all sorts of other factors that have left a trail for what the road the economy is moving. The economy is going well in Denmark because the stock markets are booming internationally because the housing market is flourishing, so people are getting more and more money and more purchasing power, because for many years a reform policy has been pursued that has brought more people into work and has made Denmark richer. The economy is not going well because of the government's economic policy, where tax has been raised, where people have been withdrawn from the labour market and nothing has been done to sustainably strengthen the Danish economy. I really believe that the government has done nothing to permanently strengthen the Danish economy. If the rapporteur disagrees with that, I would like to hear: what has the government done to permanently strengthen the Danish economy, since it is the government's fault that the economy is doing so well?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092830	I do not think we should boast, but we have reason to be satisfied. And if that funny picture of Tivoli, like Mr. Tivoli... Rasmus Jarlov conjures up, was right, the economies of the other European countries would be just as good. It is true that we are in a boom, so of course there is something in relation to the business cycle, but there is also quite a lot that has been decided on how we got out and have invested ourselves out of the crisis and that we have ensured that Danish companies should not dismiss their employees in order to face a disadvantage when the economy got up again. There we have made tripartite agreements and aid packages which have enabled companies to maintain their employees and thus had a head start when the economy opened up again after the decommissionings we have had. Then, on the long run, we have invested in our welfare society and invested in our folk schools, invested in education and invested in the green transition. It is a large number of measures which strengthen the Danish economy in the slightly longer run. These are measures that we are proud of. In all modesty, I think the figures speak their very clear language. It was wise that we did not choose the savings path proposed by many bourgeois politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092935	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222092939	After all, it is a myth that we should have set out a way to save money. We have, of course, voted in favour of the measures that have been taken in the form of compensation to the business community for the closures that have been necessary because of the corona epidemic. We have not just voted in favour, but pressed for the holiday money to be paid out, which is probably the biggest pumping out of money that has been here during the corona epidemic. So the fact that we should have wanted to pursue a restrictive financial policy is something that Social Democracy invents. It is not the case that we have ever been opposed to any of the initiatives which have helped to ensure that, for example, there is no doubt that there is no need for this. compensation was paid to the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093014	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093017	I just think that the Conservative rapporteur needs to go back and read some of the parliamentary debates. I quoted bourgeois politicians in my speech a very short time ago that they warned that we would debt Denmark and leave a bill in the children's room, and what do I know? What is true is that the debt has been reduced by the fact that we invested. What is true is that Denmark has become richer and has come through the crisis better because companies were able to maintain their employees. I am glad that many of the measures have been made with broad agreements, but the bourgeois people cannot run from warning against a debt monster, which turned out to be completely, completely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093055	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093101	For the next 3-4 years, we look into one of the biggest decreases in GDP in the last 15 years. What does the government intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093110	We're not looking into a fall in bnp in the next few years... that's bullshit. We look into a bnp, which is increasing, and that is because the Danish economy is basically healthy. And if we look at the bnp development right at the moment, it has not been more positive in the last 15 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093126	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093129	No, I admit that. That was the percentage; it was the growth. So it is a historically great drop in growth. Well, in 2025, we have a growth rate that is expected to be 0.8%. in relation to the most recent statement. By 2024 it will be at 1%. It is an 80-percent drop compared to the 3.9% that you are going out with this year. Then I'm just thinking it's a historic big fall. It is considered that growth of 0.8%. in the economy is sufficient?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093200	I am sorry to say this, but I think that the rapporteur should have just read some of the December financial statement, which is quite new. It is the case that real growth in GDP as a percentage in 2021 is 3.9. And now I'm reading up: By 2022 it's 2.8, and in 2023 it's 2.1. So we look into a process that is good and positive, and all the indications are that we are going to have a recovery that does not end in overheating but lands with a sensible and controlled landing. So it looks good with Danish economy. We appreciate that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093235	Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093241	Thank you. Fortunately, the corona fight is going well in Denmark. The fact that the majority of the population has received the vaccine means that very few of those who are infected are hospitalised and even fewer are hospitalised in intensive care. At the moment there are only 35 in life support in Denmark. Put it in proportion to the fact that in the spring of 2020 we reserved over a thousand respirator seats for fear that there would be so many. So it's going well. Unfortunately, the government, together with a majority in the Folketing, has made a number of closures of Denmark because, despite the fact that there are only 35 in the respirator with corona, fear that health care will be too seriously burdened by corona. Is this the reason why the government has not prepared properly with plans for health care, or is the reason why the government has not allocated enough money to health care in 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093347	Thank you for the question to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. I agree with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen in that we in Denmark have one of the world's most effective deployments of the vaccines. I think we should send a thank you to the Danes for taking responsibility and being vaccinated in this way. That is absolutely crucial. In relation to how we plan our capacity, I have also explained how we have invested in health care on previous questions. As far as the restrictions are concerned: it was not said directly, but it seemed to me that the rapporteur is against the restrictions that have been made. Then I can say that although we have an intensive care unit capacity, it is not an objective that people should be in intensive care because they typically have long and difficult courses after intensive care. I can say that the restrictions that have been imposed follow on from the expert recommendations we have received from the Epidemic Commission. And I am glad that in the Folketing there has been a majority in favour of implementing it; I believe that it is responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093447	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093450	However, when we remember that in the spring of 2020 we had to impose restrictions because we were afraid that there would be more than a thousand people on life support, and then we are looking at the figures at the moment that there are 35 with corona, which is in respirator, and yet new restrictions are being made for fear that health care will collapse with 35 in respirator, is there not a bell ringing in the Social Democratic rapporteur that the health care that the Social Democratic Party currently stands for may be a little too weak in taking the little bit of pressure coming from Corona, in what Denmark we know today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093529	I think that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has presented it in such a way that it should be an objective that we should have a balance in our epidemic control, where we have a very large number in respirator treatment, because we have that capacity, and it is just not an ambition that I share. We must have as few as possible on life support, and fortunately at the moment we do, because we have a great deal of support for the vaccines. That is the strategy followed by the government, and it is in line with what the experts of the Epidemic Commission recommend. Then we have some more general challenges in our health services, both acute and in the slightly longer term, and there we will also be presenting initiatives that we look forward to discussing with the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093605	Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093612	The Left asked about an economic problem that does not go away by the government doing nothing, and I would like to ask about something else that also requires action. For the most serious social criticism right now is that so many children and young people are not well, and we are going to have to take much more seriously, that they need play and strong communities and ties with adults, and some of it is about having skilled educators, and therefore I would like to ask about the new education programme. Because in the Radical Left, it doesn't make any sense for the government to play out with DKK 0. the new teacher training, even if we had to start negotiating now, and next year we will then have to negotiate a new teacher training programme. That is why I would like to ask the Social Democrats: will the Social Democrats set aside money for a new education programme by next year's Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093701	First of all, I agree with Mrs Lotte Rod that the challenge we have with structural employment does not go away, and that is also why we have made a proposal called Denmark can do more and which will ensure that we have increased structural employment. If you implement that proposal, you will also have about 2 billion. kr., which you can invest in the education sector, and that will be the case among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Now we must not reveal what is going on in the negotiating room, but I want to make it clear that the constructive efforts of the Radicals have taken us somewhere where we have been able to invest in teacher training and also invest in educators, and I think that is sensible. The second point, in relation to the fact that there are more young people who are ill, seems to me to be a very, very important issue. Time does not allow me to go so deep into it, but I agree with that diagnosis.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093803	Thank you. Mrs. Lotte Rod, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093806	I would like to ask for a very clear answer from the Social Democratic Party: will money be set aside for a new education programme? And when I ask, it's because I think these financial negotiations have in a way been such a silly theater where we all went and said that we thought the new teacher training was important, but when it came to it, the Social Democracy had set 0 kroner. to a new teacher training course. And I just think that gives some weird negotiations because it means you can't get started until the money is there. That is why I would like to ask for a very clear answer: will the Social Democrats set aside money for a new education programme?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093841	I think that this is a slightly wrong characterization of our negotiations, because the negotiations actually ended with a significant economic boost, something which the Radicals pursued quite intensively during the negotiations, namely for educators and teachers' training. So we have made a boost in the negotiations that we have been through, which now have their results when we are going to adopt next year's Finance Act. How we're going to prioritize next year, you'll see when the government plays out. I am just saying that if the government's reform plan is adopted, there is a very large bag of money that we can invest in our education sector, and that is why there is an additional argument for bringing these negotiations to a positive conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093920	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222093926	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Now I do not think any of us are in any doubt that our health services are on their knees and are under severe pressure. Well, there are vacant posts, and it's hard to get new employees in. That is why we are also in a situation, as I interpret it, that the Corona measures will depend on what the health services can cope with. Now 1 billion has been set aside. kr., which is in play and which loses the effect once during 2022. Does the rapporteur think that this is enough to get our health services back on track? And why isn't some more money set aside to make it run?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094008	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer for her question. I agree that health care is essential. This is, of course, crucial for a large number of reasons in the daily lives of many of us, unfortunately, but also in relation to corona. In other words, the restrictions, the deployment of vaccines and health care are some of the pillars of dealing with the situation we are currently facing with the pandemic. That is why we have also allocated one billion as a temporary measure to ensure retention and recruitment and additional health care efforts. But it is not right to say that this is the only measure. What really matters is that, with three regional agreements, we have put considerably on top of the economies of the regions and thus into the health system. That is what makes the huge fundamental difference, and that is also why Stephanie Lose said it was the biggest boost we had made in 10 years. In addition, we look forward to discussing a health reform in which we address some of the other challenges we see in our healthcare system.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094109	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094113	I wish I could share the rapporteur's optimism about how it works. The second major problem is, of course, the unequal pay in health care, and there we have a committee which will only come up with its results at the end of 2022, and that is what makes people flee the health service. So I cannot understand why the rapporteur believes that this is going to work. For the money that has to be put in place to compensate for the unequal pay is only going to start in 2023.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094149	I think it makes a difference that we have invested massively in our health services by previous financial laws, both with the regional agreements with 1,000 more nurses and now with an acute Coronavinter package to ensure that health care gets through a pressed winter. There will still be challenges in our healthcare system. There is a challenge with bureaucracy that we must have less of, so that there is better room for professional judgement. There are other challenges with the close health care that we need to solve, medical shortages and other issues that we need to discuss. But it is important for me to say that we do not negotiate wages in the Folketing, and that is why we have set up a pay structure committee to investigate it. But we do not negotiate wages in the Folketing. That's what you do between the parties. It's the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094223	Sir. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094230	Now we're part of the Financial Law Agreement. I would like to thank the government for this and I would like to thank the government's support parties for allowing us to participate. That is absolutely not a matter of course. I remember how financial laws were negotiated at that time, and at least there were some parties that did not want anyone else to come along at all. So we are very, very happy and grateful for that, too, that we have been allowed to make some impressions which, of course, reflect our party size, but nevertheless. Although we are in it, I would like to express my concern about something that I would like us to address, and that is the rising energy prices. In rising energy prices, there is the threat that people will have to leave homes and homes, but there is also the fact that when energy prices rise, the state will have to pay fewer subsidies to biogas plants and to wind turbine owners. We also get more money through CO2 I have read that it is approx. 3 billion kr. I may be wrong, but I read that it is 3 billion. kr. Wasn't it an idea to consider sending the 3 billion? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094340	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094343	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde for the question and, above all, thank you for a constructive approach to the financial law negotiations. I believe that the constructive approach of the Christian Democrats to politics in general and, in particular, to negotiations is a factor in ensuring that it is possible for the Christian Democrats to be involved. In this way, fortunately, things are concerned with some kind of political karma account. There I think the constructive approach of the Christian Democrats is positive. So thank you for a good deal. Then we have the challenge of rising energy prices. We have, of course, made provision by the government for the municipalities to be a little more involved in drawing attention to the fact that it is especially to our older people that there is now a possibility that, if you are financially squeezed, you can get assistance to deal with the rising energy prices. We have also agreed with the companies that on the district heating part they will flatten the payment so that you do not experience very fluctuating prices. In relation to the question of whether to take some of the money that will then be a plus because of energy prices and put them into something else, it is important to be aware that when you make the budget in the state, you do it structurally. This means that this year, when it is fluctuating one way, you do not take that money and spend it, because then it will mean that this year, when it is fluctuating the other way, you have to take money again from the area. That is why we are budgeting structuralally. I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094454	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094457	Yes, but we're talking about a very volatile market, and you just have to do something and the government actually does. So that's 400 million. kr., as I understand it, is set aside to compensate a certain group of people for the rising energy prices. But we are in a situation which is quite serious for ordinary workers and ordinary families who are at risk of having to leave home and home. And we have seen in France what such a thing has been done of, namely the Yellow West, and we must avoid that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094535	I fully agree with Mr. Jens Rohde in that we must avoid people going from house to home because of rising energy prices. This is an issue on which we must have our eyes fixed. That is also why the government has proposed that we place money so that the municipalities can be more offensive when it comes to helping older citizens who are facing this problem. We need to follow this issue. I totally agree. We must do so both for the sake of such people as the Yellow West, but above all for the sake of the social consequences it can have. But that does not change the fact that, when we experience additional revenue from, for example, a volatile market, we do not have to take that money and spend it, because we need to maintain structural budgeting. It is the foundation of a sensible economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094610	Now we are through the rapporteurs of all parties. When I have been a little tight on keeping time, it is because it is only now that we come to others who can speak. That's why I've been a little tight on keeping to time, because we've got about 15 minutes left. It's sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094632	Thank you. I would just like to address one of the ugly holes in the tale of the Socialist Finance rapporteur, which did not just fit into the story. It's about the high schools in rural areas. I could say Glamsbjerg on Funen, I could say Tønder in South Jutland, and I am quite sure that the rapporteur also knows it from his own area. After all, they are highly challenged, and there we have heard from the government and the Social Democrats, that we must of course also ensure rural education, and I think that is a good thing, because it is purely a policy of the Left. We also managed to ensure the coherence of the economy, for example. the high schools in rural areas, Glamsbjerg, Tønder and others. But there we can see now that it has the Social Democrats and the government so did not want to take care of. I'm a little puzzled because I don't think it's just an oversight. But I think we should try to deal with it that way around. I really believe that, once we have it debated, both the Social Democrats and the government will help to ensure that. So the question is: will the Social Democrats' financial rapporteur here and now guarantee that this matter will be sorted out and that the money will be dropped off?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094731	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094735	I think that Mr. Erling Bonnesen is right that it is essential that we ensure the economic basis for education and youth education, including in the sparsely populated areas. I myself went to a high school in West Jutland in a sparsely populated area, so I know what difference it makes to having such high schools, to the possibility of further training and also to the possibility of maintaining activities and jobs. That is also why the government has taken several steps to strengthen the economy in those areas and to strengthen the economy specifically at the high schools which are being talked about here. We will continue to focus on ensuring that those high schools are also doing financially. Because it is essential that young people should not travel too far for their education, because we know that if the distance from youth education becomes too long, some will fall away. And there is typically a social imbalance with regard to those who fall away. If you are from a home where you are a foreigner of education, you will have less tendency to travel far for youth education. So this is an important issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094834	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094839	Thank you. Thank you for focusing on that. In the left, we had it under control. On top of that, we had given the money quite concretely. The Social Democrats and the government have then just led them over and used them for something quite different. So there is a need for rapid action, but I can also feel the answer now that it is a sore toe that needs to be managed. So, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, come a little further forward. Give us that guarantee now, so that we can have a good Christmas peace in this area, because they simply need it. They have been in front of us and so on, so it is quite familiar to all of us. Come on, give me that guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094911	So, I agree that the problem of education in sparsely populated areas, as Mr. Erling Bonnesen points out that we have to deal with this, and the government has done so with a large number of initiatives. And I do not think it is a sore toe, since we have, in fact, made initiatives that improve their very economy, specifically in relation to those training courses. However, it is true that we are also happy to take part in the further discussion on how we should finance this area, because we agree on this, and I also hope that the Left will take the agreement to the table that we need to finance our education in sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094946	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222094953	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen takes such a fundamentally optimistic tone here today. I should like to ask him if he thinks that it will last when, for example, we get there. talk about the elderly area and care for the elderly. A large number of municipalities are in the process of cutting aid to the weakest elderly in these days and weeks. Those who need cleaning get cut down on cleaning in several municipalities, so it is about not getting sick from the dirt that lies around in the hooks. Many municipalities are cutting down on personal care. So the prayer that might have made it a little cozy when the relatives came to visit here at Christmas may have been cut away, because they will have to wait until later. On the whole, I would like to ask about the emergency plan that has been worked on in relation to the municipalities' care for our elderly and whether it is even legal to do so. It is based on the fact that there is an individual assessment of each individual, but you do it in lots of letters that are sent out to a lot of older people at once. So is the optimistic tone really worth estimating when it comes to care for the elderly right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095056	I believe that with regard to the optimistic tone which I think I have rightly taken in relation to the economic ratios, it is quite clear that things are going well, and that is, of course, positive. This does not mean that there are no areas where we have challenges, and only today, when I was brushing my teeth and getting ready for today's dont, there was a description in the radio newspaper of the emergency preparedness that you have in some places in the municipalities as a consequence, among other things. by corona. I have every confidence that the municipalities will, of course, remain within the legal framework in this area. Then I would like to say that it is vital that we maintain a focus on this area, and that is why, with our financial law, we have invested quite considerable amounts in the elderly, directly to the elderly, just as we have set aside considerable amounts in previous financial laws to increase the level of education of our social and health workers. And then, and this is, in fact, the most important thing, we have strengthened the economy of the municipalities, so that there is economic resilience in terms of also strengthening the care of the elderly. But there are specific problems out there, caused by corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095202	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095204	Well, it's nice to see Mr. Knox. Christian Rabjerg Madsen says that we Well, it's all about whether you have an upset stomach about whether you have a home that works at all, and in some of the descriptions we've seen, it's about the lower regions in relation to cleaning. It's not very nice if you sit there as an elderly person and can't take care of yourself, get that upset, and then two days here before Christmas. And then we can stand in here and think it's going super well and point to the economic ratios. Is it the rapporteur's view that what is happening in the municipalities now is legal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095241	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095245	When I point out that we have a challenge, it is, of course, because it is also our responsibility that the elderly people in this society experience dignified care. We have invested in that in the current Finance Act, and we have invested in that in previous Finance Acts, and we are, above all, in contrast to the government which Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl supported, walked away from the fact that one does not cover the demographic trait out in the municipalities when making agreements with them. Instead, we put upstairs. So extra funds have been allocated to the area, but there is a concrete challenge out there at the moment that is linked to corona, because the municipalities have a challenge to make things work together, and that is not positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095318	Then it's mr. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095325	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I do not think that the rapporteur is concentrating on what is important. The important thing is to look at how much debt has increased. Let us remember that the government actually took over an economy that was really good-looking. In fact, the debt was record low. Now the debt has increased by 25%. It is true that we are at a low level in Europe, but the problem is not, of course, the problem of debt absorption. The problem is when you have to pay the debt. That's where the supply of work is going to be super important. You don't even touch that in your speech. You don't even touch the energy crisis. Where is the government on these points? Can the rapporteur come a little closer to these important issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095418	If you look at the economic ratios and also at the level of debt, it has been sensible for us to have increased our debt for some time to ensure that we had the means to hold hands under an industry that was hard hit by corona. It is this intervention and the initiatives that ensure that we can maintain employees, for example, and that Danish companies now have an advantage. That is exactly the advantage you can read to you if you look at how debt development will be in the years to come. We have invested our way out of the crisis, and then it is true that the debt goes up. If it had not been done, the debt would have gone up to the same level, but it would have been in a situation where unemployment had also gone up, which had caused the increased debt to have settled. That's what happened after the financial crisis. If you look at the figures now, you can see that in a few years' time we will be back at a level of debt similar to that which we took over, while unemployment is 15,000 less than when we went after the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095519	Sir. Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095522	We could have a long talk about that, but we don't have time for that here. Then there are the consumers. Consumers are an important part of growth. Nevertheless, the government does not affect the energy crisis. It does not touch it, but it just says that it is, however. But they are an essential part of that solution. They are an essential part of the future, that is to ensure that the Danes do not become poorer. The government has been doing this for the last two years. They have actually become poorer, not richer. So where is the government in relation to this energy crisis? Come on, get in the game.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095553	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095557	I agree that we have a challenge with rising energy prices and that it could potentially be a challenge, especially for the Danes, who have the very least and are thus least equipped to deal with rising energy prices. That is why we have set aside money for the municipalities to be able to seek out those people more so that the situation resulting from increased energy prices can be remedied. In addition, we have made an agreement with the district heating companies that they equalise the bill so that you do not experience suddenly rising bills. However, this is a challenge that we must have our eyes fixed and must also pay close attention to in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095631	The last brief remark we reach is from Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095639	Thank you. This year we have once again established with thorough research that there is no equal pay in Denmark and that the unequal pay is due to the fact that the civil servants' reform of 1969 placed the classic women's professions lower than the classic male professions. We are still suffering from that decision today. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is prepared to put more money into it if the pay structure committee that is on its way says that more money is needed to put an end to this pay gap.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095713	I can see that, in the field of health, for example, we have some challenges with the fact that too much is being done. I believe that some of the things that affect job satisfaction in this way are if, as an employee of that sector, you find that there is no room to provide the help that you would like to give to the citizen you are facing. I think that makes a huge difference. That is why, for example, together with the SF on previous financial laws, we allocated funds to employ 1,000 extra nurses. That is also why we are making the temporary corona package, and that is why we are basically investing in our welfare society. I think that for the people who choose to go into these care professions, it is their professionalism and the time to make a difference that is absolutely crucial to their motivation, and it is also behind government policy. As far as pay is concerned, we will not advance the work of the Labour Structure Committee. We are going to let it work, and when it has the bartender, we are going to discuss how we deal with it. It is important that we do not negotiate wages in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095815	Astrid Carøe, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095818	And I agree with that, but we can only see that it is impossible for the parties to resolve this conflict when there remains unequal pay. I fully agree that it is very good that we have got money for more nurses, that we have got this package this year, which, after all, is better than the honey hearts last year, but when we can see that there are really, very many vacant positions out there and the nurses are screaming for better pay conditions not only better working conditions, but also better pay conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095853	I believe, as I said, that in terms of motivation and the joy of work out there in our care and care sector, some of the things that matter most to the people out there make a huge difference every day, it is crucial that they have the time and space to do what they are passionate about. That is one of the points we have made in relation to. Then, of course, I also listen to a discussion about wages. I think we should just be careful in here to conclude that this cannot be resolved by the parties. We need to have faith in the Danish model. This is not where we negotiate wages. Now we see what the Committee on Salaries' Structures comes up with, and then we have a discussion after that. I think that is the smartest thing out of respect for the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222095929	Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. There is no time for further brief remarks, so after a despriting we go further. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222100005	I would like to start by congratulating the government on achieving the financial law agreement, and I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for your cooperation on a number of important points where the Left has helped to conclude political agreements with the government. After all, I think that is also important to start by making that clear. There are many points on which we do not agree, but fortunately we have been able to make a large number of political agreements together. Having said that, we have come to the debate on the Finance Act, and it can be said that the Financial Law Agreement here is a form of exam for the government. It will then be concluded here today with the third reading, and therefore also with a large number of amendments which we will be discussing later here today. The Left has put forward a number, and there are also other good parties in the Folketing who have expressed their views. But I am thinking, since it is now time for exams, that there is also reason why we should proceed a little forcefully to look at the content of the agreement. I am sure that if the government were to give itself character, it would place itself at the higher end. I would immediately think that with the cooperation I know from my many discussions with the government, a 12-figure had been reached. Some people, I believe, in the government or in the Social Democratic Party would think that a medal should be given to the Minister of Finance or another member of the government. That is precisely why we need an external, objective censor. I have decided that I would make myself available for that. I can see that the Minister for Finance is about to die of laughing, and it is a sad situation if this debate should end there, but I am known for my factual and very, very sober approach to political agreements, which is why I have decided that I have taken on this task. This has been a major task, I would like to say. I have followed the course, but not in the room, I have read the final product thoroughly, and there are a few criticisms, and there are also some serious errors and shortcomings which I have to point out. When we look at the content, we have to say that the first and most serious shortcoming is, of course, the whole question of the answer we should have received and what we should have had, namely what we are doing in relation to the acute and serious shortage of labour. The odd thing here is that I assume that it is deliberately, because it has certainly not passed anyone's nose, that Danish industry, Danish companies and public institutions demand a political handout in order to get more hands at their disposal. Unfortunately, when the Socialist Government does not choose to make the necessary decisions in time, we run the risk of losing the economic recovery. The government has decided that tens of thousands of people will no longer be part of the working community, and it has also been decided with this financial law and with previous decisions that higher benefits to unemployed immigrants, in particular, are what they choose to give. That is what makes it less worthwhile to work; it becomes less attractive to contribute to the community. This is going to cost growth, prosperity and jobs, and we think this is serious because it is, of course, the whole prerequisite for our welfare societies and, above all, the green transition, which is very crucial. That is worrying, and it is also dragging down in the overall assessment. Now it is not because I have to stand and call for plagiarism, but you don't have to be sensitive in that way. That is why I had hoped, in fact, that the government would have been inspired by the financial law and the financial law priorities presented by the Left in November, and in which we are proposing to increase the work offer by 25,000 people in 2025. The left has among other things: The Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment is proposing to increase the employment allowance, introduce a more reasonable rate of graduation, give more freedom to work for people's pensioners and a large number of other things. These are all initiatives designed to ensure that work pays better. We are doing this because there is an urgent need for us to have more labour in this country, and that is also the opportunity that the government is overlooking. The second challenge with the Finance Act agreement is that the government has actively made Denmark poorer and makes it more expensive to be a Dane. When the artisan part of the housing job scheme is abolished, it is basically just a tax span for the Danish homeowners. It must also be seen in connection with the fact that the government has already raised or proposed raising taxes, charges and charges almost 50 times, for more than 12 billion. kr. Overall, government policy reduces Danish prosperity by 14 billion. kr., and that is basically the exact opposite of what is needed in Danish economy. A responsible government would have behaved differently here. That, of course, is also downgrading in the assessment. I also think that we could have been inspired by the budgetary priorities we had, where we also think it is a good idea to be able to keep taxes in order, while also investing in welfare and in the green transition. It is no secret that we are facing very difficult negotiations in the near future. Generally speaking, it is only difficult to negotiate with the government, but I think that the debate I am mentioning now will be particularly difficult, namely the issue of green tax reform. Here we have seen that the working group it was agreed to report here before Christmas has been delayed and, if we understand it, their recommendations are made here at the beginning of February. We think it is crucial that we secure a tax system that provides incentives to adapt, so that we can ensure both ambitious and market-driven green conversion. Here will be CO2 This must be done in a way where we do not send jobs out of the country or, for that matter, send production out of the country. That is why the Left believes that, in addition to introducing a CO2 Things should be seen in context. We need to do this wisely, where we can create more Danish jobs, while at the same time developing new green solutions that hopefully can also be exported internationally. That is precisely why we need and need a strong economy, so we can afford a smart green transition where climate policy can also help to be an enterprise policy. This requires a top-level economy, and unfortunately we are not there at the moment. A third element that I must also mention here today is the whole question of the area of foreigners. We think it is wrong for the government and the support parties to maintain the high benefits, among other things. especially for unemployed immigrant families. Integration benefits have been increased and the Finance Act extends the extra public benefits to unemployed immigrants in particular. These are benefits which mean that an immigrant family receives approx. 2,000 kroner. extra tax-free every month for not working. We think that is the wrong way to go. We are also sorry that the government has dropped the promise of a new exit centre. The government's own proposal to place the group of criminals showed at a center on Langeland was dropped following pressure from several political parties, including the Left, but the government has not yet proposed any compensation. It was and is untenable that deep criminal foreigners who do not have the right to be in Denmark have still not been clarified where an exit centre should be, not for their sake, but for the sake of the Danes. That then draws down on my judgement. A fourth and final flaw in the Finance Act is what we think is a non-existent response to how we ensure that our welfare society takes much more account of the individual. Unfortunately, it is the case today that older people do not have an influence on who comes and cleans, that young people have to be forced into high schools and that there are sick or childless people who cannot receive the right treatment, because in some areas the health system is out of date. Here, too, I had hoped that we would have looked at what we have proposed in the Left. The Left wants to give the Danes the opportunity to choose the welfare offer that suits them. That is why freedom of choice is an essential and important priority in our approach. We have, for example. the proposal that pregnant women should have free choice to choose between public and private services in the field of food, to spread free-care homes, to extend free-community experiments to all municipalities and more welfare areas and to strengthen the free choice of Danes in fertility treatment, just to mention a few examples. The Left would also have liked us to find a solution to how we can better ensure that unspent funds in public institutions can be transferred to the following financial year. In many ways, we think that there is too little freedom for the individual, and that is also why I come to my completely impartial conclusion, which can be summed up as follows: there is a lack of answers to the acute shortage of labour, the Finance Act makes Denmark poorer and makes it more expensive to be a Dane, it relaxes the immigration policy, and there is a lack of answers to how we better ensure a welfare society that exists on the basis of the citizens' terms, yes, it looks bad, one must say, and as an external censor I must also say that the government's financial law has thereby failed. We are then trying to make things right by tabling a large number of amendments, and I am, of course, aware that they are not all adopted. We have been behind in the past and lost in the Left, and that is why we are also taking the defeat with our forehead up, in the event that we are voted down. This also leads me to believe that after all we respect the need for a financial law, which is why I can also say that, at the second part of the third reading, we will support the overall financial law, whether or not our amendments are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101024	Thank you to the censor rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the debate. As usual, there are 45 minutes for short remarks. It's first, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101034	Thank you. I can say that had Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen was my censor, I had brought the case before the school principal. I mean, it was too harsh, but thank you for your speech. After all, the Left has suggested that the 22,000 Danes who have been awarded Arnepensionen should be deprived of their opportunity to withdraw worthily. It is 22,000 Danes who have worked with the hardest jobs and the hardest jobs, and it is people who have built this society and who have paid their taxes for more than 40 years. Instead, I can now understand that the Left has found an old trover and wants to give top tax relief to those who have the most. I assume that, when you propose it, you think it is a sensible priority, but is it the expression of a large bourgeois party that is less than an earlier but, after all, a relatively large bourgeois party that would like to be a centralist force in the economic debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101138	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101140	Now I think that was an extremely scornful remark made by Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen to speak about the current position of the Left. As I said quite openly: we have been behind and lost in the past, but I can also promise that we will come back, and I will not use that against the government, nor the social democracy. In relation to the whole question about Denmark being less 0.0, which one can unfortunately call the negotiations that are taking place in the Ministry of Finance, they do not move out of the place. What I have made the most of in the negotiations is essentially the candy bowl that has been presented with a smaller number of obscenes than the number available to the Minister of Finance in the bowl he is given. And I think it is a little sad that, in such a topical and challenging situation as we are in now, we are not coming to the negotiating table. After all, we have called for the parties that will be involved in making a difference and making an agreement to be invited together. I still need an answer to that. So I do not understand why we cannot sit down and have a debate and then have a political agreement. We think this is important, and I think that the government also thinks it is important. So I don't understand all this hassle.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101243	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101244	At least there is the 0 character for the answer to the question. Furthermore, I believe that the negotiations in the Ministry of Finance would be much better if, after all, we were to come up for the negotiations to which we are invited. But that's another talk. If you look at the priorities of the Left, it is the case that when you take away the Danes who have worked hardest and longest, their pensions, the citizens of Morsø, Frederikshavn, Jammerbugt and Hjørring municipalities are particularly affected, because it is there that most Danes have applied for Arnepensionen. The municipalities where you benefit from the top tax concessions that the Left apparently wants to distribute are Gentofte, Rudersdal, Hørsholm and Allerød. Is this a reasonable geographical priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101324	Well, I don't participate in the stooling of the people who are actually making an effort in Denmark to make some money. I'll tell you what. I think it is quite fair for the Social Democrats to take the view that they want to hunt down people who contribute to society. That must be the socialist policy. I just don't participate in it. I think you should be glad that there are some people who make money in this society and help pay a tax... well, for some, too, a high tax. Having said that, I do not understand why the top tax limit cannot be discussed. The fact that there may be a large number of skilled workers who actually make an effort and in this way would like to be allowed to do more and get something more for themselves, I think is common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101405	Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101407	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It was quite interesting to listen to. The Finance Minister, when the Finance Act was launched, was out to say that it was a strict financial law, and I certainly think it is for some too. However, as the rapporteur also mentioned, there are at least some for which it is not very strict. If you look at immigrants, you can see that the integration allowance has been increased and that the temporary family allowance continues. This means that here there is a group of citizens who are experiencing a financial law which provides extra funds, that is to say, more room for manoeuvre. If you look somewhere else, if you look at the area of the elderly, can the rapporteur see some places where this financial law gives an increased room for manoeuvre to the elderly, just as you have had a strong focus on the fact that there should be an increased room for manoeuvre, that is, a greater personal income, to the immigrant families? Does the rapporteur see that this is happening in the area of the elderly? When I ask about this, it is because we can see that consumer prices have risen significantly. If you just take something like electricity prices, they've gone up by over 15%. So has the rapporteur taken note of this in the examination of the material?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101506	Yes, I have noticed that and, unfortunately, time also limits how much one can get into one's speech and I think it is deeply worrying, to say it as it is. I have also noted that there are some amendments. For example, the Danish People's Party has. in writing. - (DE) This is addressed in some of the amendments, and we have also said ourselves that something more needs to be done in relation to the elderly. I also share a great deal of it, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl asked the Social Democratic Financial Rapporteur, in other words, the concern about what kind of care we are able to provide to our older fellow citizens at the moment and the acute challenges we face. It must be said that all this has not been addressed. There are some other things that seem to be more important. This is also very much linked to the acute challenge of our health system at the moment, as Mr. René Christensen himself also allowed himself to ask the Socialist rapporteur. I think it has been 21⁄2 years since it was announced that a health reform had to be made. I know it has not yet arrived. That was one of the things the Socialist Minister has repeatedly mentioned had to do. So, no, that is not a priority, unfortunately, and it affects some of the weakest in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101618	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101618-2	Yeah, that was one area. The Socialist rapporteur also pointed out that power has actually been in place for two and a half years now, and if we go back two and a half years, one of the things that filled something, among other things. an exit centre. It was very important that, when the Social Democratic Party arrived, it would be resolved around an exit centre, and when I look today at the financial bill that has come, there is nothing about an exit centre, and the consequence of that is that convicted criminal foreigners who are doomed to leave Denmark are now running freely. Has the rapporteur been able to find anything about an exit centre that has now been promised for over two and a half years?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101654	Yes, it must be a confession case, and one then owes it to be honest, that is, that the government does not give priority to that. And that may be surprising, because it was a promise that it should be delivered on. Then there hasn't been. I think we are facing very great challenges in relation to the pressure there is. We have some particular challenges that the Danish People's Party, when the Danish People's Party was the support party for the then government, was willing to give a commitment. We suggested the exit center on Lindholm. There was a lot of discussion about that, but we stood by it, and I still think that was a good decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101735	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101736	Thank you. The lack of labour is both good and bad. It is bad for the companies that lack people and employees, and I also feel sorry for the companies that are honest and honest and who have done their job early, but I do not feel sorry for those companies that do not take apprentices and who have not taken care to train their employees, and this eternal jam that we should look abroad for labour when we have 76,000 young people between 15 and 29 years of age who are neither in education nor jobs. We have 26,000 unemployed seniors who want to work, we have 49,000 people with disabilities who want to and can work, we have 14,000 people who are looking for a flex job. We have 27,000 extra people who could enter the labour market if their desire to move from part-time to full-time was met, and then we have 10,000 young people who would like to have an internship and have the right to one in relation to the agreement we have made with the business world but who cannot find one. A great many people can and would like to have a job in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101856	I assume that I will then ask the question to myself, because I think that Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen will ask me whether it is not a problem for those people not to be made active. Yes, that's what I'd like to say. For me it's not either-or, it's both-and, and there's still a lot to do. Another area could also be mentioned, for example. The absence of sickness, and if the absence of sickness in the public sector is reduced, there are also a great many hands to be released in this regard. So for me there is not only one universal solution to solve the issue of the lack of labour, but there are many different things that need to be done. I did, for example. Even a tripartite agreement with the social partners, in which we looked at better opportunities for continuing training. Unfortunately, I have to say now, a 2, 3, 4 year, it is well after it was concluded that more continuing training has still not been achieved. It is also another alternative to ensure that there are some who have better opportunities for continuing training, so that they have some other competences.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101952	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222101953	Thank you to the rapporteur for helping me formulate the issue when I ran out of time. Because that's exactly what I wanted to ask, and that's a lot of people. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen: If a company lacks young apprentices, some who take vocational training are missing, but they have never taken in trainees or apprentices, Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen then think that they themselves are partly responsible for the shortage of labour that we have a responsibility to train?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102028	Fortunately, I am not speaking today under the duty of truth, as a minister does, so I do not have a huge catalogue of preparedness here on the platform either. But one of the things I think we need to do in that discussion is to differentiate it slightly. There are, of course, some companies which have easier access to apprentices, in other words, the large companies I think have a special responsibility. Then there are some of the small start-ups who may not have quite the same opportunities, also in terms of flexibility. But yes, the business community must of course also provide in terms of creating the internships necessary for us to get more skilled people in the future, or to replace the gap that is potentially coming, because there will be many skilled workers who are pulling out of the labour market. So I do not disagree at all that we also have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102109	The next brief remark is to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102110	Now radicals are sometimes called a schoolteacher party, so it could be very fun to continue working on this exam analogy, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen had. We believe that there are two major negotiations on green taxes and labour, which have been postponed, and that is why Parliament cannot be fully assessed yet, including the Left. However, I would like to thank you for the cooperation we have, particularly on the labour issue and, above all, the issue of international labour. Although there have been some foreign policy differences between our parties, I welcome the fact that the Left can see that foreigners can be part of the solution, not least here and now. What I'd like to ask you is this, with benefits, because it's Mr. Knox. Troels Lund Poulsen around. We know, of course, that reducing benefits does not provide much labour because a great many recipients of cash benefits do not have the skills needed to get a job. I would therefore like to ask where the Left is in relation to the recommendations of the Service Commission. I can then come up with a follow-up question once I have the first answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102224	I must also start by signing for the cooperation that we have had here in 2021 with the Radical Left; I very much appreciate that myself. And not least, thank you for many of the same political positions on questions about how Denmark can become richer and gain greater economic growth. And there we have to acknowledge that the Radical Left has some of the same views as not only the Left, but also a large number of other parties in this Parliament. So it is absolutely essential to maintain the political consensus on these issues. In relation to the Service Commission, I think it is important to say that services should also be linked to how to ensure that people can be made active in this society. Now there is one of the greatest, you might say, political capabilities within the Left at the moment he is in the Chamber today. Morten Dahlin, whom I myself visited when I was Minister for Employment. That, sir. Morten Dahlin did in Greve Municipality, where immediate activation was done, had a huge effect, because it helped people to know that if you are to have a performance, you also have to help give something back. This is among other things. one of the examples. After all, the benefit negotiations have become, if I may say so, part of the major negotiations on the whole question of the reform trail with Denmark can be more I. And I think it is in this context that you should see it. But we think that right and duty must be followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102353	Thank you. Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102353-2	It's hard to resist. But what the Service Commission has proposed is to put some stairs into the cash assistance system, so that you get a slightly higher cash benefit if you have trained yourself it could also be to have learned Danish or if you have previously worked. This means that there is some dynamism, some social mobility into the cash aid system. Unfortunately, you can't really calculate it because it's a completely new way of doing it. What might be interesting is whether you could agree in broad terms here in the Folketing to say: Let's try to run with that system for 3, 4 or 5 years and then see what the effect was of it. Could the Left see itself in that, i.e. to take the recommendations and let them run for a while?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102437	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102438	If we are to create a single model for reforming our services, I believe that it should be linked to the whole of the reform trail, which we are also discussing, so that we see it in a context both to have the assurance that we will have a greater job offer, but also to ensure that we get something done about the backlog that exists, of people with a non-Western background in relation to employment. We need to do something about that. There is, after all, a two-digit billion amount that is there and that can be activated. There we are, in fact, open to discussing several models for that. As far as we are concerned, it is crucial that the backlog should be reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102519	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102520	From 2015 to 2019, with the bourgeois tax reliefs agreed, which will cost approximately 22 billion each year. kr. This means, of course, that when tax rebates are granted in this way, which are too much of a benefit to the richest, there are other things that are not available. In this finance law, we get a new welfare right in Denmark. We have a free dentist introduced for the 18-year-olds, the 19-year-olds, the 20-year-olds and the 21-year-olds. I think that is a great thing, that is to say, that we are expanding the welfare society in this way. However, I am a little uncertain about what the position of the Left is on that element of the draft budget. So my question is: if the majority were to change after a forthcoming parliamentary election I hope that will not happen, but if it were to happen, will the Left stop or cancel or abolish the new welfare rights that we have introduced for the citizens of Denmark with the 2022 Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102620	It is a little difficult for me to comment specifically on this issue because I was never invited to the negotiations. There was no room for me at the table. Maybe next time there will be, and I'll stay calm and not say much. When I start there with my answer to you, sir. Rune Lund, it is to say that I know nothing more than what I read in the agreement, and it is not very much that says about the concrete model. In order to anticipate the pleasures, I would say that there will of course be an amendment to the vote later today and to that the Left will vote yellow. So we are not going to say that there is something that we cannot support, but on the other hand we do not know the extent of it, and that is why we are voting yellow. That is, overall, what I am going to say, and that is the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102713	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102714	I think that is an interesting answer. We introduce a new welfare right in Denmark with free dentist for the 18-year-olds, the 19-year-olds, the 20-year-olds and the 21-year-olds, but now the Left says that they will vote yellow and create uncertainty as to whether it is a right that will prevail if there is a new majority after a forthcoming parliamentary election. I find this frightening, especially in view of how many tax incentives the Left has been behind when the Left has been in power, from 2015 to 2019. I think this is a major problem and I think it is frightening that the Left will not support the extension of the welfare society to introduce a free dentist for new groups in Denmark in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102812	It was rhetorically strong, and from what was said, we should have voted red in the Left. We are not voting red, we are voting yellow because I say that I do not know the content of the proposal. I have not been invited into the sacred halls where this has been discussed, but I can just see a very, very short thing in a finance agreement. We are going to take a final position when we see the actual coinage, and that is why we are voting yellow now, and I think that is actually responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102837	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102841	Thank you. The Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen chose to focus only on 2022 and 2023 when he stood on the platform, and I can understand that, because if you look just a little further into the future, and a responsible party will do so in the economic situation, you can see that we really have a bnp growth of 1%. in 2024 and 0.8%. in 2025. If you look at employment and its growth, yes, you'll see that it's actually negative, so in 2024 it goes backwards by 0.1%. and in 2025 it comes back to 0.2%. This is the fact of the economic reality we are looking into in Denmark. In relation to the Left's position: Does one think that this is a true picture of what is needed in the Danish economy? Do you think it is timely care that the government has done nothing to change the developments that are going to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222102944-2	No, in fact, I also think it was a rather sloppy answer that the Socialist rapporteur has given to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen. Because it is absolutely true that in the future, challenges for the Danish economy will be seen. I also believe that this is why we did not respond specifically to the question. I am not going to be the Socialist rapporteur. As such, I am not the right person to be the one to be the one, but it is quite true that there is a challenge in time. This is both in relation to the question of the necessary labour force and that is also why I acknowledge that New Citizens are very active in the debate on how we can make an ambitious agreement that ensures a greater supply of work and how we can make this society richer. I think that is a position that we all share, namely that it is important for this society to become richer, because then you can use the extra money that you may have at your disposal to invest in some of the policy areas that you can agree on. It is now more fun to discuss how to make the cake bigger than to have to experience Denmark becoming poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103045	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103046	Thank you. On this occasion, I would also like to sign for the pragmatism of the Left around, for example. the top tax, where I know that the Left has had to re-evaluate something, and I think that is sensible, because that is what is needed in the Danish economy. One of the other things that New Citizens have played in with is that we get closer to identifying how to ensure this ongoing prosperity. This can be done by adopting a law on prosperity, which is what we have proposed. It can also be done by, for example, in relation to a government basis or other commitment to a certain percentage of growth in the coming years. Is this also something that the Left could look into negotiating?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103127-2	In any case, I think that, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is now addressing the issue, is absolutely crucial. One thing is that you want to be sure of what your expenses are like in the future. Another thing is, of course, that if you want to have a certain level of expenditure, you also have to ensure that you have equivalent revenue. Well, this is pretty neat. I also believe that you sit and explain to your banker that it is absolutely crucial that your level of expenditure is so high, but we are not talking about revenue because it does not matter what they are. I mean, things are connected, and that's what Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's question about premise, and indeed, I think it is absolutely necessary to make sure of it. In general, I think there's too little focus on how we make money for the community in this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103210	The next brief remark is to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103213	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. Corona has burdened people with children, young people, adults, the elderly. Right now it is the case that more and more young people are in need of psychiatry, and we know that psychiatry is already under severe pressure. The 10-year psychiatry trade plan has been postponed, so the negotiations will only get under way after New Year's. My question is: has the Left, in its draft budget, taken account of the financial allocation to psychiatric medicine so that we can have it given priority on an equal footing with the somatic diseases?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103255	After all, we have said in our financial bill that there is a need for health reform, and in that too lies the whole question of what can be done in relation to psychiatry. We have said that by 2022 we will drop an extra billion kroner in relation to health. We have not fully determined what to do with the money. However, I fully agree with the premise of the question or what lies in the question, namely the challenge of mental health, if that is the case. I have no doubt for a second that the aftermath of corona will be seen in not least some of the many children and young people who have been left to themselves have been left to the screen and who have lacked a social community. Of course, those who are most affected in this regard are also those who have potential challenges, which make them perhaps not thrive in the communities of which they have previously had the opportunity to be a part. So, yes, it's an area that's important. And I am also looking forward to the start of those negotiations. I think it is very, very important. I think that for many years the psychiatry has been downgraded for that matter enough, it has to be said, by changing governments historically, because the focus has been on other areas of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103409	Thank you. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103410	After all, we can only agree that it is heavily downgraded, and it is not very attractive to get jobs and take education in the psychiatric professions. That's a huge problem. But if we're going to get rid of this, we also need to avoid a growing number of people needing psychiatry. So what is the position of the Left to allocate funds in relation to preventive work, both that quite preventively, but also where we can see that some people could be entering psychiatry if they are not given a hand?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103443-2	Well, I don't think I can stand here and conduct the psychiatry of the Left from the platform today, after all. I have to admit, my abilities are limited in this field. However, I think it is important to say that a large number of things must be put into play. After all, I have had the pleasure of being Minister for Employment. We can look at some of those who are on the edge of the labour market but who come in and become part of the working community. There, changing governments, we have had really, really good experiences with, for example, their challenges to mental health being reduced if they get a job or become part of a job. So I think we need to look at prevention in a broad sense, and that is also involving the labour market in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103529	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103532	Thank you. If there's something like that in both our DNA, it's the concept of freedom. Then the question is: how much freedom do you have, for example? must give to the municipalities and the regions. Should we dose the freedom from here, or do we mean something by freedom? After all, for many years we have been discussing the municipal autonomy of the parties. I'd like to hear Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, whether there are any considerations in the Left as to whether the clamping, which the service ceiling and indeed the tax freeze are for the municipalities, remains an appropriate way of managing the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103616	We are not going to take up a fight with the service ceiling or, for that matter, the overall municipal economy. That is the overall answer. But I think it is important to say that there are still a large number of challenges with regard to the municipalities. This is both in relation to what is possible on the site, but also in relation to the overall financial framework. So, yes, I am actually willing to discuss municipal autonomy, but it is not the case that the Left is proposing a fundamental change in terms of what it is like today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103659	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103700	But why should the Danish Parliament manage the municipalities so hard on the expenditure ceiling, which then also means that when a gift comes from in here, for example. the older billion, as Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen's former government helped to give local authorities priority in some other areas? I remember that this was the kind of gift you did not want, because you were then forced to give priority to some other places because you were hit by the service ceiling. And it is extremely difficult for our local politicians to explain that issue. Could we not try to think in some new ways and in some freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103737	I think that's what Mr. Jens Rohde mentions something that he himself got acquainted with in historical times when he, as political rapporteur, had to explain the elderly billion. I had the pleasure of doing that myself back then. It was, as I recall, distributed on the block grant. If it isn't, I'm sorry. Well, then I'll have to have a bilateral talk with mr. Jens Rohde. Maybe my memory is playing tricks on me. In general terms, I think it is very sensible to have a handle on how the economy of the municipalities and regions is. I remember years ago that we experienced budgetary slippages in the budget, which was not sensible for the Danish economy either. But we will probably not get to the bottom of that here today, at least not in my answer here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103819	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103822	Thank you. Back to Arne and people like him who have worn and dragged into a long working life with the toughest jobs and which we have now given the right to now have a little more years to retire, because we know that those people generally live shorter than some of us. Now I listened to what the rapporteur said when he said that we are in a boom and that we lack labour and that it is therefore stupid to take labour out of the labour market. Is it to be understood that Arne and people like Arne's right to retire must depend on whether we are in a boom or in a recession? If we were now in a recession, would the Left not abolish the right to early retirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222103906	I think I have to refer to some previous answers I have given. I don't know if I've given them to sir. Jeppe Bruus, but at least I have given them to colleagues from the Social Democratic Party about whether the Left believes that Arnepension should be abolished. We think it should, regardless of whether there is a boom or a recession. I have said this several times in this Chamber, and there is nothing new about it. So if that is what you are asking for in relation to social media clips, I can say that this is our policy, because it is in our financial law that that is what we think. On the other hand, we think that something more needs to be done to establish better conditions in relation to senior pensions. It was an arrangement which I myself had the pleasure of developing together with Morten Østergaard from the Radical Left and Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and I think it is in many ways better suited to ensuring that those who have a need are given the opportunity to withdraw from the labour market, even earlier than Arnepensionen allows, and therefore we are also going to expand that model and we will invest some more money in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104008	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104009	Thank you. I must save the rapporteur from cutting to social media. In fact, I think that was an interesting answer, because it was a little different from what was stated in the debate before. Let me ask you something else, sir. Søren Pape said in a debate here with the Prime Minister a few weeks ago that it is people who withdraw from other people's money. This has puzzled us a little, because it is people who have been on the labour market for over 40 years. Does the rapporteur share the view that the people who retire early with Arne are doing so for other people's money?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104046	I feel a little like when you've read up for the exam, and then you get the wrong question. I'd have thought that sir... Jeppe Bruus would have questioned me in the tax stop, so I've done nothing else for the last nights but to read me through the tax stop, but then that question didn't come up. Sir. Jeppe Bruus has requested this several times now and on the Left's website, but then it will be Arne we are discussing. I'm speechless, I can hardly answer, and I'm completely shocked. I believe that we must understand that I do not have to explain and interpret the text on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. I have enormous respect for the Conservative People's Party, so what they say, they have to explain for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104123	The next brief remark is to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104123-2	In the educational world, we are working a little hard to turn down the fact that you only give grades, but in turn turn up the more formal feedback, that is, where you tell what you have to work with, because that's what you're getting smarter and better at. So I would actually like to give the rapporteur of the Left a chance to unfold the text a little, because I was just so happy yesterday when the Left voted for minimum standards, and so I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: what have you discussed in the Left, what has happened, and why is the Left now in favour of minimum standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104158	Yes, an informative debate is also what I have tried to contribute here in my answer, in which I gave not only the government grades but also good advice. To ensure that we are in a situation where our minimum is given priority in relation to the presence of educators, I think that is sensible enough. We have then had a discussion about whether to do it in a certain way or not, but we also think that priority should be given to our smallest children, which is why we have said that we think it is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104237	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104238	I think that is awesome, because it also means that the Left will not roll it back either, I assume, if at some point you should regain power. It just makes me happy. I believe that the more we can do broadly, the better it is. When I ask a little about this, it is because in the Radical Left we want to take the next step, that is, that it not only grows up but also becomes educated educators. It costs almost half an additional cost if we want to ensure that three out of four adults who are in our day nurseries and kindergartens are actually trained educators, because they need a little more pay. So maybe this was something we could work with the Left on, could you also imagine helping to support the next step of the minimum standards, that is, that it should also be educated educators?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104321	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I would just like to remind you that direct indictment by a majority is not permitted either. That's when you say "I" because it's also direct indictment. Several Members are asking us to point this out, and that is why I am now pointing it out. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104338	In fact, we thought it should be the other way round when we had the discussion. We think we should start with the radical approach, which I say out of respect for the Radical Left, namely that we should look at how to give those who are in our nursery schools and nurseries, but for that matter also public schools, some better offers, so that they have a professional background. That is what I remember discussing in great depth 10-12 years ago when I was Minister for Education, where the Radical Left had the view that it was necessary to ensure that teachers had the right competences. We thought that was crucial in relation to, for example, the situation. the area of day-care. I think it is important that people have an education as educators, not to say that you cannot work with children if you do not have a definite educational education, but that is where you should start with the promise. Now, on the other hand, you start by saying that it is now more important that you look at the number of people in relation to their competences. But for me, this is connected. After all, we also think that we should have the right competences, and there is certainly a very, very great backlog today, no doubt about that, and we must discuss that with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104440	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104443	Thank you. It may well be that the rapporteur of the Left has put a stop to tax in the run-up to the exam, but now the rapporteur of the Left has withdrawn the question of Arnepernsion. And the rapporteur of the Left has said that the position of the Left is that it must be abolished. The rapporteur has also said that this is a deeply irresponsible regime because it will withdraw large numbers of healthy people from the labour market and send them into retirement. Now the fact is that eight out of ten of those eligible for Arnepension are skilled and unskilled, and they have had hard jobs for over 40 years. So my question to the rapporteur of the Left is really: should we be ill before we can retire, even if we have been over 40 years on the labour market in unskilled and skilled jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104528	Well, that quote, sir. Jens Joel came to read, I don't think he's completely apt for what I'm saying. On the contrary, I say that it is no secret that the Left has opposed early retirement. We think this is the wrong priority. After all, we recognise that a majority can decide what to do. After all, we are not Donald Trump, although I can see that we are being accused of it. We recognise that this can be decided by a majority. Asked whether the Left thinks it is the right model is the answer: No, we do not think that we should do something more and better to invest in people's ability to get a senior pension because we think that it is better to ensure that those who are worn out and need to retire from the labour market do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104612	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104614	Thank you for that answer. So you have to be worn out, sick, incapable of working in order to be able to retire. That is a clear answer. Now my colleague asked Mr. Jeppe Bruus to the wording used by the Conservative leader about the withdrawal of other people's money. The rapporteur is, of course, familiar enough to answer: I cannot say what the Conservatives think. But that is not what was asked. It was whether the Left also thinks that people who go to Arnepension are retiring for other people's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104647-2	Well, I can say that I am deeply unrutinated in these contexts, so my answer must also be borne in mind. It is the case that the public services in Denmark are for the Community's money. Well, it's the economy that pays for it. So that's the tax you pay. And it is the political majority that decides what the system of benefits should look like; that is the model followed. And so do we. We can then have some other political priorities, and I have explained them here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104719	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104722	Thank you. It is not to please the rapporteur of the Left, but because I think it is essential that I say that the 21.7 billion. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. to provide a proper hospital service, to ensure that there are enough nurses and so on. etc. We also need them for green conversion. How are we going to cope if the Left will continue to pursue such a policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104758	Well, I don't understand with my knowledge of sir. Christian Juhl, that one can support such a government here that is so eager to pursue such a policy. Then why have we been able to support the Finance Act? We should then have increased taxes by 21.7 billion. kr., if it is the premise. The left must admit, hard pressed, that we were rejected last time it's never nice to be. I think so too, sir. Christian Juhl knows from several debates with me, where he has not been allowed to participate in political agreements. But we have to recognise that we do not have the power of government, and we are dealing with that. We then say that the day when we had to regain government power, if we succeed in doing so, we will, of course, be pursuing the economic policy we are behind. And I do not recognise that giving people better conditions to get a greater share of their own funds is making Denmark poorer ■ on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104854	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104855	Now I must not deprive the Danes of the right to judge the Left out one more time, but everyone can see that we lack extremely many people in the public sector if we want to be safe when we grow old, if we want to be safe when we are in the hospital and things like that. And that is why it is suicidal to keep on sticking to a policy of simply emptying the public from money so that we cannot provide that service. You cannot get it all for half, and the Left also has to acknowledge that, otherwise the voters will have to give a clear message.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222104931	Yeah, well, I guess that's all we're agreed on. Voters have to give a clear message. I am very confident that they will judge us in the right way, and then it will have to burst or bear. I think one can say that Enhedslisten has a somewhat one-sided focus on how to spend the money. Our focus is more nuanced. It's also about how we make the money, how this society gets richer. We just look at it differently there. We do not have the same tax policy as Enhedslisten, and otherwise we might as well be the same party. And that is why we have different opinions. We believe that some other instruments are needed. We also believe that something should be done now about the acute shortage of labour. That is absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105011	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105014	Thank you. We go further and from Arnepensionen it is sometimes such in an exam situation, when some keep drilling in something you may not really have the final answer that it is good that some others are asking about something new, so now we move on to a new topic. A large part of the Finance Act is also a major increase in the level of criminal justice services, and as a prelude to the debates on criminal justice, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, in November in Jyllands-Posten, that Left would fight for more prison places and more hands, better education and safer conditions for the officers. After all, an agreement was just reached which provided precisely the four points with which the Left went to the negotiations, but yet the Left is not included in the agreement. After all, it gives such little reminders of another major agreement in the field of justice from last year when the Left could not be involved either, namely the police conciliation. At that time it was the tax freeze that prevented the Left from being able to help take responsibility for the Danish police. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur for the Left whether this time too it is the tax freeze that prevents the Left from taking responsibility in the area of justice this time for our criminal services.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105125	Somehow there is some justice in politics: Finally, we came to the tax freeze and the social democracy's love for the tax freeze finally. It took almost an hour to get it into the platform before it was braided, and here I had hoped that we would discuss the tax freeze and the implementation of it! Let me start by correcting a minor error • it was actually a grave error. I have said very clearly what we think about Arne and an early retirement. That was a very clear answer I gave. I think the Social Democrats in the press have already picked that up. And it's not new that I'm saying it because I've said it before. So, in relation to criminal justice: we do not think that the content of the agreement on criminal justice solves the serious problem in any way. So it basically has nothing to do with a tax freeze. We respect our tax freezes and think it is important to have. I understand the government doesn't want that. The government believes that taxes should be raised. The government must take that with the voters. But the question is whether the content of the agreement reached is good. No, it's not. There is a wide range of relaxations that send out the wrong signal in every possible way. We could not accept that. Then there are other elements that are reasonable. I'd like to say that. But overall, we think this is a bad deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105245	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105246	However, it is an agreement which delivers on the four points with which the Left went to the negotiations, if that is the case, Mr President. Preben Bang Henriksen said in Jyllands-Posten in November, stands for believers and who, of course, deliver on the crucial challenges of criminal justice. This applies to more places in our prisons, more prison officers, better education and so on. But that is just so that I understand it quite correctly, and it may well be that I am the one who is stubborn: that is, the Left has no challenge in financing the agreement on criminal justice, but that it is only the elements of the agreement that are the reason why the Left is outside an important agreement on the economy of criminal justice for the next four years.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105324	Yeah, I'm afraid that's a bad deal. I agree with that. It's a bad deal, and the contents are really bad too. It means, of course, that there is a better chance of serving with an ankle bracelet and that the penalty for cheating with corona help is being put down, which is one of the things the Socialist Ministers have against in this Chamber. I even believe that the Minister for Employment has been talking about the importance of punishing those who take the money from society's coffers during the corona crisis. It's just to mention a few examples. So the content is just sad, unfortunately. That is why, together with some other parties, we ended up standing outside. That is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105410	Then there is room for a final brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is due to Mr Beazley. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105411	Thank you. Now we need to focus on the funding by the Left of their financial legislative proposals or financial law priorities, because there I understand on the Left that we will see to it that there is more competition across the board in the public sector and that it must provide 1.5 billion. kr. in the financing of the Left's draft Finance Bill. Here at a time when budgetary agreements have been concluded in regions and municipalities and when there is pressure on health and there is pressure on the elderly, does the Left really want us to have municipalities and regions to reopen their budgets for 2022?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105451	After all, we have set out our priorities on how and how to make a financial law agreement. We think it is a good idea for there to be more competition in the public sector. I don't know if Social Democracy is against that. I find, in changing negotiations, that sometimes the Social Democrats think that making competition postponements can be a good idea, so I do not know where the Social Democrats stand at the moment. However, making competition deferrals seems to us to be common sense. That does not mean that society is destroyed. If you look at the current situation, there is the question of quick testing, and there are a large number of private providers, for example. At the moment, it is behind it. It was, of course, a huge discussion whether or not to introduce quick tests at all. This, of course, was done in the interests of reducing the spread of infection, hopefully. So, yes, to have increased exposure to competition seems reasonable to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105548	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105549	Social democracy is, of course, concerned with the fact that the calculation is correct, that there is a balance between revenue and expenditure, and that is also why I am asking what it is actually in the Left's draft budget. Because if it is the case that one does not want to ask to open the budgets of municipalities and regions now for 2022, then the Liberals' proposal is underfunded by 1.5 billion. kr. Okay, of course you can go out and look at, for example. The attorney general; there you can save approx. One-and-a-half billion. kr. a year. Of course, you can try to push this through, but in reality, if you do not go out and do so, there is under-funding of the Left's financial law priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105627	I can promise that there isn't, because the Left's financial law priorities are one hundred percent linked. And no matter how much, sir. Thomas Jensen stands and shakes his head, you will also be able to raise the countboard today when you have voted on all the amendments, and then you will see that there will be a surplus based on how the Left economy is in relation to the amendments that are and what our priorities are. So, sir. Thomas Jensen can sleep quite safely until Christmas and even in 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105652	Thank you to the rapporteur on finance from the Left. And while preparations are being made, I can welcome the next rapporteur, who is the Danish People's Party's financial rapporteur, Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222105716	Thank you for that, President. Then we stand here with the product of the Financial Law negotiations for the 2022 financial year. The last time we were here discussing it, it was what the government had presented, and now it is what the government has agreed with its support parties. When you look at the Finance Act, it is a poetry work, and it is Denmark's economy for next year, and in the past the government has made agreements with the municipalities, and you have also made agreements with the regions, and here comes the overall financial overview in relation to what kind of budget we are going to work with in 2022. When you look at this, I clearly remember my rapporteur's speech when we first stood here. After all, the agreements were made with the municipalities and the regions, and there we really felt it was very positive in relation to the agreements they had with them, i.e. the agreement on the economy of the municipalities and the economy of the regions. If we then stand here and look at the last part of the agreement, that is to say the overall draft budget, then we have to say that there are some things that are missing. We are actually in a situation where we have had corona in Denmark for two years, and this is a period where fortunately there have also been some breaks sometimes, and we had hoped that those breaks had been used to prepare for both the second and third waves to come. Unfortunately, we note that this has not been the case, and what we are seeing today is a health service that is at its knees, both in terms of capacity and indeed also in relation to the job satisfaction of our employees. We have been able to see that sickness absence has increased significantly, even more than one might expect. We have been able to see that nurses have resigned in desperation in relation to the working conditions they are faced with, and so we in the Danish People's Party had hoped that this was something that would be addressed in the context of a Finance Act. We must note that this is not the case. When we look at the municipalities in relation to the agreement that was made, which looked positive, and after the budgets have been adopted, and after the municipal elections are over, and after we can now see what it is decided in the municipalities, we must also say that we now see that more municipalities are reporting out and now I think we should listen to that cleaning in the elderly is no longer about cleaning, but that it is about not getting sick from being in your own home. We have now come so far that we do not clean to clean, but that we clean, so that we do not get sick from being in our own home. We simply cannot be familiar with this and it is not good enough. That is why, of course, we had also hoped that the Finance Act would have taken care of how to ensure that a decent care for the elderly could be provided. But when you read the Finance Act, it doesn't actually say much about it. As the Minister for Finance also said when he came out the door: it is a strict financial law that has been made for Denmark. Yes, and it's certainly tight for some, and then it's actually a gift booth for others, and let's start with the gift booth, because so is a finance bill. Because that is also where money can be given to the areas that you want to prioritise, and that is what has been done. The integration allowance has been increased, the temporary family allowance has been maintained, which particularly affects larger immigrant families, where those who make the most of it receive as much as DKr 2 000. more a month • 2,000 kr. more a month to immigrant families. At the same time, we know that a great many elderly people are having a really difficult time, both in relation to the services they receive, welfare benefits, but also financially. Therefore, Dansk Folkeparti had also proposed a small thing, namely that you should make a Christmas check of 2,000 DKK, i.e. an amount of 2,000 DKK. Once a year. It has not succeeded in getting into the Finance Act, but 2,000 kroner. a month to the immigrant families, they have succeeded in joining the Finance Act. To be honest, we are a little shaken up about that. There is one other thing that, unfortunately, has not been included and that was put to the vote. Now, for a long time, such a copy had been made and read a little, and what was it that the Danish People's Party could do with that alien policy, and what was it that they said? Well, at least they said something about an exit center and the fact that criminal foreigners shouldn't be running around freely. After all, it is people who have sold drugs, it is people who have done perilous crime, so they have simply knocked people down on the streets, and they have received a verdict that they should be expelled from Denmark. So, they have been for a judge and were told that they are not wanted in Denmark anymore, and they must of course be locked up. The agreement had also been concluded by the Danish People's Party and the former bourgeois government, so that of course those people should be somewhere until they could be sent home and where we had control of where they were. Then came the new government, and it was immediately said: No, the agreement made between the Danish People's Party and the former bourgeois government could not go at all. It was the wrong place Lindholm couldn't be used. Maybe it was too close to some summer houses. I do not know, but it might as well be that this was something that was involved, and then you had to come up with a new proposal, and then you made a proposal over the night on Langeland, which was also quickly taken away again. And today it is the case that there is no plan for how people who have been to a judge and have been told that they are not wanted in Denmark, do not run freely. People who have done personal crime, sold drugs, who have simply done everything they should not, while they have been in Denmark, can now walk freely. They will be able to do so in 2022, and they will probably continue to do so in the future. We just have to say that it is precisely in a financial law debate that it is put in place that the money is put down by having an area where those people should be, but that has not been done. There is another thing that has happened here. After all, everyone is talking about great growth and that things are going really well, and so are they, but there has also been a great increase in expenditure, and if you just look at something like energy prices, I think most people who have a car have noticed that energy prices have increased. But you may have, for example. electric heating has also seen electricity rising by 15%, and gas prices, if you have natural gas or some other form of gas, have risen by up to 50%, and if you now fire with liquid fuel, that is to say an old oil pine, you have got a price increase of up to 30%, and that is very, very large price increases, especially for those with the smallest incomes. That's why we have also suggested that we should have done a one-time thing, and it should have been a heating supplement for those who have the smallest incomes. Nor could it be included in the Finance Act. So there is not much for those who have the least, but there is a great deal for those who have come here and, unfortunately, have not become part of the labour market, and that is why we have to say when we look at the Finance Act and with the challenges that we face, that it does not actually address it. Do we have equal access to health in relation to a health service on which we believe that a great many Danes measure their welfare societies? We don't have that today. The latest thing that has happened because there is no control over capacity is that, if you have planned operations, you cannot get there. There are examples of people who have walked out there and have been ill, it may be because of a knee or something, and it is of course not life-threatening but has not come to. They do not see that they have a high quality healthcare system, and yet we have to say that this has not been addressed in the context of the 2022 Finance Act. We have one of the world's most expensive and hopefully also best health services, but we do not have one of the best jobs, and we actually believe that a lot of this is also a management challenge. And, of course, we tried to talk about how we organise the regions in connection with the last financial law we helped to make. How do we make sure that with such a big lump it's almost 150 billion? kr. a year we spend on health that doesn't work optimally can do it in a different way? You wouldn't do that, and that's okay, but what do you want? Then you want nothing, then you leave it alone, and then the nurses can stand out in the palace square and demonstrate, and then you can just say that they must do that and that is not our problem. But that is also our problem, because it is we in the Folketing who are setting the framework, and it is the regions that fill the framework, and there is no doubt, if you talk to the staff in the health services, that there is something that does not work optimally, and so it also rubs off on the citizens. The citizens do not get the service they can expect, and we will also count on the money that we put into the machine not to be spent in the right way either. Therefore, we simply hope that the health reform that the government has promised to discuss will soon come into play, because we need to get the Danish healthcare system back in gear, we need to get back the joy of working with the employees working in the Danish health service. Of course we do. So all in all, it is a financial law that may not move so much, and sometimes it may be good if you are a little conservative to say that it was also very good yesterday. But it was not very good yesterday, and we simply need to move forward, especially when we look at our welfare areas. We should also bear in mind that 2 years of corona we think that will give some other swells afterwards. If you look at such things as the primary school area, there are many of the students now who have experienced the corona, perhaps in the first, second, third class, who have been taught on a completely different level. There will also be a challenge in relation to what we are going to see in relation to the care of the elderly, we will see in many of our areas, so that when we are out on the other side, there will be some repercussions that we will have to solve, and there will be no funding for this in relation to the Finance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222110726	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222110732	Thank you. Thank you, of course, to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for the speech, but also to the agreement we made on worthy retirement, the so-called Arnepension. It had 1 year's birthday yesterday. Yesterday was the 1st anniversary of our vote. And that means that, in New Year's, the first of those who have had a very long and hard working life can actually withdraw worthily. We are very pleased that this agreement has been made, but unfortunately some of the friends of the Danish People's Party, or at least colleagues in the blue bloc, have said that they want to abolish it. It may then be that we should not only be grateful that the Danish People's Party actually agreed to the agreement, but that the Danish People's Party can also be the best guarantor that such an agreement cannot be changed. So what is my question to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is really whether one can guarantee that the Danish People's Party does not, because the Left and Conservatives are asking for it, choose to abolish Arnepensionen at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222110833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222110834	Yeah, I can guarantee that. We love profit principles. We would also like that when foreigners and immigrants come to Denmark, so you actually have to be part of the community for the first seven years before you can get public benefits. The government has decided to take that down. Now you can get cash benefits, you can get cash benefits, you can get all public benefits as soon as you come to Denmark as a refugee and an immigrant; we don't think you should have that. It is, in fact, the case that you have to be on the labour market for over 40 years before you can use the right to an early retirement pension, and then we think that the quota has been paid. You have paid your taxes, and you have probably done so with pleasure. And I would also like to say that yes, it is not really about those who have had the hardest jobs; it is actually about those who are in a situation where they say they want to take advantage of the right to say: now I have been on the labour market and now I am going to resign. I would like to say that you are not going to be gold-red or very rich by it. Those who choose this early pension are people who need it. We have no problems with that in the Danish People's Party, and we stand at the goal of it, and we are pleased with the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222110930	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222110931	Thank you. That is clear speech, and I am, by its very nature, very much in agreement, even in the characteristic that the people who have the opportunity to retire here, not on a golden system, but on a dignified system, have earned it. I think it is good that the Danish People's Party says so. So a follow-up question: Conservatives and New Citizens have also proposed abolishing the post-retirement wage. After all, 300,000 people are still paying for their early retirement today. So my question is actually to the Danish People's Party whether it is a proposal that you can see yourself in. Or are we going to reject it as clearly as we reject changes in Arnepensionen?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111005	Yes, I can clearly reject that, we do not want to abolish it. In the past, we have helped to create a system whereby we could withdraw from it and get some tax advantages out of it. I would not deny that we could do that again, but it is a completely voluntary arrangement. I also think it is very important to take note of the fact that the early retirement pay is not only on early retirement; it is actually also the senior job scheme. In fact, you have this assurance that, when you are in your very late working life, you actually have some opportunities to still enter the labour market. There is, in fact, a right to re-enter the labour market. I think there are many who may not be able to talk to that when you look at the early retirement scheme. It is, in fact, a much better arrangement than it is interpreted as. Unfortunately, there aren't that many on it anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111042	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111046	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to ask some of the things that the rapporteur did not mention, but which, of course, take up a great deal in the amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party. After all, it is a very, very large cut in development aid, both poverty-based, multilateral and bilateral, and not least the green one, that is, climate aid. And we are, of course, some who are fighting for more climate aid, because that is how we can actually ensure that more stability is achieved in the world. Then the rapporteur cannot explain: what is this about? Why is it that you want to save so much of what actually helps create a world where people are neither forced to flee nor internally displaced persons and keep the level of conflict down?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111133	Well, that's what we'd like to do, and the way we've pruned isn't actually just cutting away. For the pools are significantly increased, and what we have done is that we have said: What was in them in 2021? and then we have written them with 1.3 per cent, and what has then been beyond what is contained in the government's proposal, we have taken out. Well, it's not a pruning, it's actually maintaining the level that we had in 2021. We have not cut off the figures that were in 2021, because we are very much in agreement with them. We would like to have a very, very strict immigration policy, we would actually like to have closed borders with people seeking asylum, and that is why we also need to help in the neighbourhoods, and we would like to do so, but there is no need to make the massive expansion of these pools, which is what has been proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111214	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111215	Well, beyond what the support parties got through by additional climate assistance of 100 million. There has been no increase, it is still 0.7 per cent that is sought by the government. What is then proposed by the Danish People's Party is, after all, to cut back what, with my aggregation of the various proposals, is 342 million. kr., plus/minus. That's a lot of money to cut. That is, the Danish People's Party will not give 0.7 per cent. We have made a commitment to this as a member of the United Nations in relation to the poorest countries in the world. So how do you see it? I mean, just because we keep a level from when the economy was at a lower level, we give the same thing. How is that related to the way we're gonna fight it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111259	It has to be said that in the political debate that has of course taken place when a budget law has been put forward and that is perfectly fair, I have great respect for that money has been distributed. We do not think that all the money is distributed in the right way, and that is how it is when you are not in the room, but I would like to say that when we have cut the pools, we have not cut everything away, we have cut it back to the level that was in 2021, and then we have added 1.3 per cent, so that they follow the price development that has been there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111324	The next brief remark is to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111329	Thank you for a good speech and also thank you for your cooperation in many ways. Sir. René Christensen is one of the colleagues who has the most control, so thank you for that. In the speech Mr. René Christensen very much that we should move forward, and he particularly mentions a dignified care for the elderly. I think that in the Radical Left we had a slogan about progress at some point, so it's a little hard to be against both. But some of what is also a problem in the care of the elderly, and not just in the private sector, is this shortage of labour. The last figure I remember is that the National Association of Municipalities believes that there are 5,000 people missing to be home helpers and sosu assistants etc., so it is a major challenge for home care and for hospitals that there is simply a lack of labour. A completely open question is: What does the Danish People's Party have of policies to solve the very big challenge, both for private business and for welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111430-2	Well, we are not afraid to talk about reforms, and we are still sitting around the table in relation to the government's initiative. There is not much going on, I should like to say, because there has been something quiet about the meeting activity, but that is the way it is. If I have to say something about it, it is that we have never been nervous about looking at the employment allowance or anything else that makes it more attractive to get the last part of entering the labour market. Just when we look at the care sector, we have tried several times also from this platform to give a song to the municipalities: Now look at how you can make it more attractive to get full time. There are a lot of people in this sector who are part-time. We think this is a pity, but of course we hope that the municipalities will be able to solve it so that we do not have to solve it from in here. But there are also some handles that you can use locally, i.e. drive it in a different way than you do today. But there is no doubt that there is a shortage of labour, and especially in relation to the fact that we live longer and are also caring for longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111524	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111525	It is a good start, of course, that we agree on the problem formulation, because I believe that the greatest challenge in terms of being able to deliver welfare will be whether there are some to carry it out. After all, we have a surplus on public finances, so we can put money off, but if there is no one to be hired, we are equal. What are Danish People's Party's issues? Now Mr. The René Christensen employment allowance, and that is where I know you have to go up to perhaps 4-5 billion. kr., you have to have deposed before it really makes any difference. Then perhaps it is a little interesting to hear where it could be financed and what the Danish People's Party has of other issues in these negotiations, because it is a little interesting to see if we can create this as we would like, namely a very broad majority in order to address this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111613	One thing I think we should also be aware of, especially when we look at the area here, is that it is also a professionality to be in the care sector, and indeed it is also an education to be in the care sector, and that is why we are very pleased that we have actually now succeeded in actually getting paid during training if we take a social and health assistant training course. But again it is not something that we have laid down on anyone from Christiansborg and said that you must now do so, because it is again a voluntary scheme in which the municipalities can put some money in their budgets, so that you can pay in education. Now there have just been municipal elections, and it is their area that is most challenged here, but it is important that the municipalities subsequently go out and use some of the tools we have actually put in the toolbox for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111653	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111655	From 2015 to 2019 tax reliefs were agreed, which will cost 22 billion each year. kr. This meant that our welfare was eroded and deteriorated during the same period. Money that could have gone to welfare and care for the elderly went to tax rebates, including far too much to the richest countries with the support of the Danish People's Party. Then the Danish People's Party has talked a lot about getting an older billion through. But if we look at the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, then not even the demographic move was delivered. In fact, just over 4 billion were spent. kr. Too little. And if we convert it into what a municipality normally spends on care for the elderly, then it's in mr. René Christensen's own municipality, Guldborgsund, 15%. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). It's like what's being used around the country. And then it's actually about 600 million. kr., which in this way was drawn together if we calculate the 15%. out of the senior area. In other words, we are well below 1 billion. kr., while Enhedslisten, for example, in addition to having contributed to ensuring that we get the demographic feature covered in the finance laws we provide, did in itself also make a lasting boost to the care of the elderly of 500 million. kr. in the 2021 Finance Act. So shouldn't we spend the money on welfare instead of tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111815	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111816	It's not a either or. For there are certainly also some tax concessions which are quite well and quite sensible in relation to the debate we have just had about the supply of work and to ensure that there are also some warm hands out in the care of the elderly. In one of the last financial laws we made, we had a lot of focus on quality instead of just spending money. It is such a rather awkward debate that it says that it is just about spending a lot of money. No, it is actually about Mrs Jensen getting cleaned up properly. It is actually about Mrs Jensen meeting a face she feels comfortable with. It is actually about Mrs Jensen being happy when she gets a visit from her caretaker and feels that she has a good life. Although she has grown old and has become a caregiver, she actually feels that she has a dignified life. That's what's important. Because we've seen television shows and much more. We can put a lot of money into the machine, but if they aren't used properly, we don't get the right service. Therefore, I am sorry about the work that we did not get started in the Danish People's Party that in the area of the elderly it was the first place we wanted to start • we should measure something else. Today we alone measure how much money is being spent. There we would have to measure the service experienced, that is to say, what service the individual citizen is experiencing; what level of service the individual citizen is experiencing. That's what's interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111925	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222111926	My point is that if it wasn't about money at all, why does the Danish People's Party care so much about the 1 billion. kr. that was given? I thought it was good to give 1 billion. kr., because it's also about money. My point is that the Danish People's Party has given with one hand and taken with the other hand, while what has happened since the 2019 elections is that one hand has been given, but the other hand has also been given. If we look at what has been added to the area of elderly people in financial laws, we see that it is 0.7 billion. kr., approx. 700 million kr. In addition, funds have been provided in the economic agreements, so we are actually, if we include the 15%. of the funds allocated to the municipalities reach more than 1 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112007	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112009	So it doesn't hurt the Danish People's Party to make tax cuts, so the citizens get a greater amount of money, so it doesn't. There are very many citizens who go to work every day and do not actually experience so much difference between being on passive support and being self-supporting. We'd like to move that line. We do not want the bottom to be lowered. We want to lift the second part, that is to say that you get a little more out of being in the labour market. That's what's interesting to us. And then I completely agree with Enhedslisten that it is certainly also about money. You have to have the resources when we get more and more. When there are more customers in the store, it also costs more. And you just have to say that there are going to be more caring elderly people, and that is why it costs some more.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112048	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112051	I would like to ask a few questions about one of the most important issues of the Danish People's Party: immigration policy. We miss, among other things. a solution at an exit centre where, in the previous parliamentary term together with the Danish People's Party, we proposed that an exit centre be created at Lindholm. But now it seems that the government has given up completely in this area. So I really just want to hear what the Danish People's Party's reflections are in relation to a financial law which increases the benefits for foreigners, has no exit centre and, moreover, has provided money for more quota refugees to enter. How does the Danish People's Party view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112136	After all, it is a government that has given up and the Danes have been abandoned. When you talk about the exit center, you just have to remember that it's not so much about these people going to that exit center for their sake, but it's also for the Danes. It's people who have been convicted. They've done crime so hard that they can't walk freely in society. They have actually received a verdict that they are not allowed to be in Denmark. They must leave Denmark. We do not want them in Denmark anymore, we have been told by a court of law. And then the government says: there is nothing to do about that, and now we let them walk around freely in Denmark. Some of the support parties even say that now you have to separate them and give them small houses around Denmark so that they can have a proper family life. We are just deeply opposed to the government's priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112214	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112215	Thank you. I have one more question on another ball street. It's about tax policy. I really think that the Danish People's Party has sometimes got a little undeserved reputation for being opposed to making tax reductions. So I would just like to hear the rapporteur here confirm that the Danish People's Party actually agrees that we should keep the tax burden down in Denmark so that our competitiveness is not destroyed. I have seen that the Danish People's Party, together with us in the past, has voted in favour of a reduction in corporation tax. Therefore, I just want to ask whether the Danish People's Party agrees with the tax policy that has been here from the government, where taxes have been raised over and over again and raised the tax burden in Denmark. Is this a problem in the view of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112256	We think it is a pity every time it becomes more expensive to be a Dane, because it hits everyone, high as low when you set up taxes, and that is what the government has chosen to do. We ourselves have come up with a proposal which we have called 'capped taxes', in which we were looking at how taxes could be reduced by 3 billion. kr., and it was actually some things that would make there less border trade and other things. There was also a pretty good run-back on it. We have to say that taxes are a policy area like anything else and, of course, there are also very good tax incentives. Of course, there are also some places where we do not entirely agree, and that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112331	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112333	Thank you very much. I'd like to get back to the tax area. It has always been such a mantra for the Danish People's Party that you will not touch the top tax. Now I hear a little different signals from different people in the Danish People's Party, and it is of course interesting in relation to the discussion we are going to have about Denmark can more and the negotiations, and how far we will be able to pressure the government to increase our labour supply. Because there are some of the government's support parties that do not want to touch it, we know. However, if the Danish People's Party actually wants to play a part in touching the top tax limit we are not talking about setting the top tax rate, but perhaps about touching the top tax limit we may suddenly have a majority, for the Radical Left has made the same point of view and has even made a proposal with the Conservative People's Party. And then maybe together we can find a common road that, in a relatively cheap and efficient way, without touching too much on the Gini coefficient, i.e. by moving the top tax limit • could create something more work supply. Where does DF stand here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112446	Well, we don't go into the room and have ultimate demands either on one side or on the other. You just have to remember that the top tax wasn't made to hit ordinary Danes. It was for the broad shoulders to wear the most. That's why we have it. We have also helped to remove the intermediate tax that we once had, because there were too many ordinary Danes who came to pay it. So there is nothing to prevent us from going into that room, but I am also glad that the rapporteur says that touching the percentage is also because the economy there is far, much larger is not immediately among the measures taken in relation to this. That is not the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112529	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112530	Nor do we ever enter a negotiating room with ultimate demands. That's not what I asked either. But I interpret Mr. René Christensen's answer is correct when I interpret it there that Dansk Folkeparti can actually be part of an agreement where you end up moving the top tax line?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112559	That certainly depends on what that agreement contains. After all, we also have some political priorities in relation to what we want to do. That's where you have a trade relationship in politics. But I would like to say that the top tax limit has moved before, and we have sometimes been a part of that too. So it is not new for us to move it in relation to the wage and price developments that are in society. That is also why the border can be moved. So I will not deny it at all will be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112624	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112628	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The Danish People's Party, together with the government, the Conservative People's Party and the Socialist People's Party, has entered into a new multi-year agreement for criminal welfare. It is an agreement which both addresses the lack of prison officers; it provides more prison places; it ensures that we are now sending 300 exiles sentenced to expulsion abroad to serve their sentences before they hopefully have to be sent out by Denmark; we are setting up a new training for prison officers, namely the prison police training in Nykøbing Falster. It is a very good agreement that addresses many of the major challenges facing the judiciary. And we had to understand from the Left rapporteur earlier that they were not in the agreement because it is a really bad agreement. So I just want to know if the rapporteur agrees with that characteristic of the rapporteur from the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112722	No, I do not agree with that, but I do agree that when you make an agreement there are some thistles, and then there are some beautiful flowers sometimes. That's the way it is. And there are some sources of funding in the context of the agreement that we do not think are quite fantastic. But overall, we think that yes, it is a very good deal. After all, we have been sighing for these 300 places that we now have abroad, even under previous governments, where negotiations were also under way. Now we have it. We've been able to see what kind of surroundings we're getting these 300 places in. So, yes, when we look at the overall package, we think it's a really good deal, too, with the thistles that are in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112757	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112758	It is clear that there will always be thistles. One might get the feeling that the times for the Left are more funding than the content, and that in reality we are a little back on an old challenge when the Left is going to make agreements, perhaps especially in the area of justice, namely that their tax freezes are bound to allow them to take on the responsibility that the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives and others are now taking on for the recovery of criminal justice. Does the rapporteur agree that it is a challenge if the Left's tax freeze is so rigid that no legal policy can be pursued? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112829	The Left itself will have to answer that, but I can at least say that we have been waiting for this agreement for many years. I also know that changing governments have been working to get this agreement in place. It's not like it's in place right now. This has been going on for many years, and that is why we are very pleased with the signal that we can also send, especially to these Eastern European thieves and others. When you come to Denmark and do crime, not only do you get a holiday spot in a Danish prison, but you actually go to a prison, and it can also be outside Denmark's borders. We think this is a really good signal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112901	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112905	Thank you. I think it's exciting tones around the top tax line. In other words, if you want to change the top tax limit, it is not just because you think people should have more; you think they should, but it is also because there are some socially beneficial effects of doing so in the situation that we are facing right now. And I'm not asking for you to completely unveil what you bring into the negotiating room here... I understand that part... but if you could try to outline what it is that is important for the Danish People's Party in these Denmark can more negotiations. Because I think everyone should be able to see themselves in something and think they've got something into it. So what is important for Dansk Folkeparti in Denmark can more-debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222112943	It is, of course, when you make the countboard up to the end and look at the job offer, that is, we are sure that the agreement we then make makes it more attractive to be at work, both for those who can get up full-time, those who can enter the labour market, and those who are out there already and can work more, that is to say that the calculation goes up and, of course, you also get a package that, yes, addresses the challenges that we face. After all, we have just had a number of debates on health care, care for the elderly and so on. etc.: We're just missing hands out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113013	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113014	Well, I totally agree with that. Is there not an ultimate minimum requirement or something to increase the supply of work? What's up to now, with 10,000, only goes to zero. This does not alter the need created by Arnepensionen. Then you might think it's not a discussion about it, but it's gonna pull out 10,000. Now, in the government's proposal, we are going to pull in 10,000, but it only goes to zero and does not create any more hands that we agree are missing. So does the Danish People's Party have such an estimate or a figure of how many more you would like to land on, so that you think you have a good deal that actually solves the problems we have with missing hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113056	No, we haven't settled on a number as such. And it must also be said that the course of negotiations that has taken place has been somewhat fragmented, because some negotiators in one room and some debates in the other room, and then you can go from one minister to the other minister to the third minister. So even though it's taken a long time, you're kind of losing track of how this is actually going to end, but we really hope that you end up with a broad agreement that makes it more attractive to stay longer at work. This is particularly true of seniors. We would very much like it to be some of the things that are going to fill up.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113126	The next brief remark is to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113131	Thank you very much. I hope it is okay for the rapporteur to jump a little and talk about something within our criminal justice system. Now a little has been said about the criminal justice agreement. However, without dwelling too much on what happened yesterday, I would like to say that one of the things that came out of the impeachment case against Inger Løjberg is that the costs of the proceedings are not being paid by herself, they pay the community as it were. But that is not the case in the rest of society, because, in fact, I believe that we are the only country in Europe where we impose broad and undifferentiated legal costs when people have been sentenced. It is one of the things that makes it actually quite difficult to be resocialised later if you hold a debt of several hundred thousand kroner which only grows and grows. What does DF think about doing, as virtually all other countries in Europe do, I think, and as we did for Inger Løjberg yesterday, saying that one thing is to get a verdict, but you should not have a double sentence in also dragging around a large debt for the criminal proceedings costs that have been incurred?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113244	I do not think we should compare these two things at all, because the Court of Justice is a little different from what we normally call a court of law, because it is a court of law. But it is the case today that the less well-off can actually get the free process. Then I must also honestly say that my primary competence is not the payment for coming before a judge. But the easiest way to get rid of it is actually not to do anything illegal, because then you don't get into the trouble that you have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113316	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113317	Yes, there were many people who might think about that way, but if you have a goal of ensuring that people are not convicted in the various courts, we have a court of law, and the Court of First Instance is also a criminal court, you could also have that focus if you are a law and order party, as DF would like to be, that it is important to ensure that we have as few criminals in society as possible. And all research just shows that it's much harder to be resocialized if you drag around a gigantic debt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113354	Yes, but you can also see that there are at least some who take advantage of it when they have the free process. It is the case that when it comes to refugees, immigrants and others, lawyers come immediately and offer their help, because then you can get free process and then you can take it to the Court of Human Rights, and you can do everything possible so that you have at least secured your own remuneration in relation to it. So I actually believe that we have a very sensible case law in which some are sentenced to take the costs of the case when they lose, and that is how it has been for many years. But I agree that, of course, there are some who get a massive double penalty in relation to having to pay off the large amount of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113433	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113436	Thank you. Now it has to be about the benefit system. In fact, the government has put forward a reform proposal to ensure a stronger organised labour market, and one of the proposals is an employment allowance for daily allowances of up to approx. 5,000 kroner. for those who have paid to the cashier and been in employment for several years. This is simply something we are playing out with to ensure a stronger labour market and better coverage for people. What I noticed at the first reading of the budget bill was that Mr. René Christensen asked the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, into this with the benefit system and to, if not to, ensure that a benefit system is of value to all employees. I think that's how it was formulated, so that we can ensure a strong benefit system. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can unfold a little more what the Danish People's Party is thinking about strengthening the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113539	There is no doubt that the benefit system is of great value to the worker, but it certainly also has great value to the employer, because in Denmark it is actually easy to be employed, but it is also easy to be dismissed, and therefore there are many job openings that are being created because companies dare to make some job openings on a shorter time horizon. Therefore, it is important that as many people as possible assure themselves and become part of this dynamic labour market that we have in Denmark, and therefore it must have value. The only thing you just have to make sure, as I said earlier, is that the difference between being in employment and being in passive support is of a certain size. But what is being proposed is not, of course, that you should have a very high level of support throughout the benefit period, because it is for a shorter period, and then you should also find out how to finance it. But the benefit system is of great value to the Danish labour market, and it is on both sides of the line, both the worker and the employer, it is very valuable.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113632	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113633	It is with great pleasure that I hear that the Danish People's Party is talking about these ideas, and the rapporteur is to be thanked for that. I would like to know if the rapporteur can unfold a little more what other ideas are being made in the Danish People's Party about how we can strengthen this benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113648	What I think is really important is to discourage the trade union movement from making agreements where it may be more difficult and harder to get laid off, in other words that it is not what has to run it, so that we make sure that we have agreements that also reflect the fact that we have a dynamic labour market. If the benefit system starts to have too little value, I simply think that, in relation to the interests of members, we will start to make some other decisions which will not be of benefit to Denmark and to the labour market. So it is important that we keep following, but we just have to be careful all the time, because it is a knife egg to go on, and it must not become too attractive to be on passive support. But we can talk about that when we get to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113730	The next brief remark is to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113733	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. René Christensen for the speech. Inspired by what the rapporteur mentioned about Arnepensionen, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is a responsible policy to withdraw 30,000 people from the labour market in a situation where we have an extreme shortage of labour around; where there are plenty of tasks that are not being solved; where companies are simply sighing for labour. After all, the labour force of 30 000 people would generate a lot of value in society if it were the case that they remained in the labour market. So does the rapporteur think that it is sound economic policy to withdraw 30,000 healthy people from the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113818	I think it is responsible to have confidence that the Danish people can actually make their own choices, also in relation to their own situation. What I think we need to get very firm about is that the amount of available money that people receive in early retirement is not very, very large. That is why I do not think that there will be many people who, for example, are in full employment 37 hours going directly from there to early retirement. Then you have to remember that many of these are also some who might have been dragged through a labour market process in a job centre and other places and then we save those resources there. So let's take a look at it when this scheme's been running for a few years. In fact, I have no doubt that there will be no such horrible scare picture that you would like to draw. I believe that we will have some people who will be able to pull themselves out of the labour market with dignity. After all, these are some people who, for over 40 years, have helped to pay to the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113909	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222113910	Yeah, 40 years. I can prove that I have paid for ATP for 40 years, so it will soon be my turn if I feel like it. Let me ask you another way: when you pull so many people out of the labour market, there are also some professional groups that you think this is simply not right. The largest group is, for example, the largest group. the social and health sector. We are in a pandemic at the moment, where our health care is laid down. We have so great a lack of capacity in our healthcare that we have had to impose new restrictions. Covid-19 is elevated to being a social-critical disease simply because our health care is so weak that the authorities have great concerns. It risks triggering more shutdowns and more restrictions. Does the rapporteur think it is fair that the elderly cannot be cared for and that our health care is at the bottom of this in relation to the Arnepension?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114007	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114008	No, but what I think is terrible is that the public sector is not a better place to work. Imagine opting voluntarily to leave a workplace which should actually have been a good workplace. But it isn't. If we offered an attractive workplace in health care and if the municipalities offered an attractive workplace in the area of the elderly, then people would stay. There are plenty of people who work out in private far above their retirement age because they like to work. And as the rapporteur himself says: I can prove that I have been on the labour market for more than 40 years and I can go if I want to. But I do not think the rapporteur will, because the rapporteur is well. I can also prove at some point that I have been on the labour market for 40 years, but if I am comfortable with the work I have, then I will stay. So here we also have to look the other way and ask why it is not attractive to work in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114050	The next brief remark is to Mr. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114053	Thank you very much. It's kind of on the same ball street. For many years the rapporteur and I have had a practical working life, and thank you for the many good conversations we have had on the subject, and thank you very much for the cooperation on Arnepensionen. We are, of course, pleased that the first can go to Arnepension here from 1 January. Now we have to understand, Mr President of the Conservatives. Søren Pape Poulsen, that the sosu, the slaughterhouse worker, the craftsman who can go to Arnepension, withdraws from other people's money. Does the rapporteur agree with the characteristic that those who entered the labour market as teenagers have contributed to society and paid their taxes for, and often about 45 years, withdraw from other people's money?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114138	It depends on how to define other people's money. At any rate, they retire in the way that the community supports them with the funds they then get when they retire, and that is the model we have in Denmark, and we have no problem with that. It is the case that these people have also paid taxes, because you cannot get into an early pension scheme if you have not paid taxes. So you can also say that in the 45 years they have been on the labour market, other people have just spent their money. It's not that this is about justice, but it's a strange discussion to have. Of course, there will also be some examples of people who are not very worn out who choose that this is what they want, because they have a legal requirement to do so, but most will choose it here because they need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114222	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114223	Thank you for that very fine answer. The next thing we have had to touch on twice, but I would like to try again to see if we can get it completely crystallized. The political rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, has further criticised us for promising gold and green forests to those who have been granted the right to early retirement. I would then like to know whether the rapporteur agrees that a monthly allowance of just under DKK 14 000. can be characterised as gold and green forests.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114256-2	I think that some of those who have stood up every morning and been physically or for that matter mentally worn out and have had incredibly difficult to go to work every day will see it as a welcome opportunity to leave. It may turn into green forests, when you walk away and you think, how nice it is to have peace of mind, and that you can make that decision yourself and not have to go through some huge process where you have to be completely freed as a human being to be allowed to have this right. I think it'll be that way for some, but gold will never be.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114327	The next brief remark is to Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114331	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the good cooperation we have in getting more young people through the education system. DF has a great focus on young people with disabilities and young people with disabilities, which is why I would like to know if Dansk Folkeparti sees opportunities in the agreement we are going to make with Denmark can more I.D., to spend some of the money on education to ensure that more young people get an education in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114357	Well, it's a very, very big focus for us. There is no doubt, and this is also true in the discussion we have now, about the labour market, that most people are not lazy. They'll go to work. Everyone wants to, if they can. And unfortunately we have in Denmark and you may wonder about it in such a rich society as we are in fact very many young people who find it difficult to enter the labour market. After all, we have still not achieved our goal of 95 per cent. of a year must have an upper secondary education. We have still not achieved that as one of the richest countries in the world. That is why we will do everything we can to achieve it. You can also enjoy the things that are in the Finance Act, because you always stand and reproach it, but there you also strengthen the fucking thing and other things in connection with the Finance Act. You also have to remember the good things that are in it. But yes, it is a huge resource out there for Denmark, but it is also a huge help for the individual that you can enter and be part of a working community.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114445	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114446	I fully agree with the rapporteur on this. It is, in fact, a disaster that we are still away from where we stand today, where 20%. do not receive a qualification. So thank you for that statement. The rapporteur himself mentions the fgu, which we in the SF are very proud of, but which has certainly also had its starting mistakes and a under-financing. And that's why we're very interested that some of the money we hope to find with Denmark can be spent on the fgu in addition to what we've found on the Finance Act. Is that something that the Danish People's Party can support?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114517	Of course we can. One should remember that the stu, specially organized education, came through at the time by a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, so it is a focus that we have always had. Those who can and have the opportunities must be part of a working community, and even if you cannot be part of a working community a hundred percent, you can be a little less. There is no doubt that we, as people, need to be part of something bigger, and so are we when we enter the labour market. So, of course, we are in favour of all the measures that can be taken in this direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114547	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Halime Oguz, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114551	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I got a little curious about something. On the one hand, the Danish People's Party wants to help more in the neighbourhood, while at the same time wishing to cut development aid. Could the rapporteur make me a little clever on this issue and explain how this can be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114614	What we have done is that we have looked at the pools that have increased significantly. I would just like to say that these are not all pools that we have examined, because we have chosen some, and then we have done so, that we have said that some of the money we want to spend on something else, and then we have written them with 1.3 per cent, as you do, so the money you had this year, that is to say today, you also have tomorrow plus 1.3 per cent. So it is not a cut, but it is, of course, because we have given priority to spending the money on something else in connection with the financial bill that we have tabled. That's politics. We want to give the elderly a decent old age, we want to give them some proper cleaning, we want to do something good for the staff in the hospitals, and we have found funding for this, not by cutting, but by maintaining the level that they had in 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114700	Mrs Halime Oguz
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114701	Thank you. In the SF we are also interested in strengthening welfare, but on the other hand we also note that if we are to ensure good welfare, we must also give priority to development aid. I understand that this is, of course, a matter of priority, even in relation to what efforts should be made, but as things stand now and as the world currently stands, the development aid we are providing to these countries is far from enough. Will the Danish People's Party, with the welfare society in mind, give further priority to development aid so that we avoid a refugee crisis, as we saw in 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114751	Yes, that is actually our declared policy, and that is also why we have not cut the pools away. Because if you just say you want it all gone, you can find a lot of billions, because there's a lot of money there. That is why we have chosen to say that we have projected 1.3 per cent so that the money available is not cut. There is no doubt that when you have a strict foreign policy in Denmark we want as few migrants to Denmark as possible... you have to help them where they are, namely in the neighbourhoods. That is also what we can do, and that is why we have not cut the pools, but we have left them still, if we may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114823	Thank you, sir. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. It will therefore be possible to make brief comments to the rapporteur, but we will interrupt the sitting at 1 p.m. 12 p.m. to resume it at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222114902	Yesterday was a dramatic day. Other days we also have strong political discussions and sometimes real arguments. Some of us don't like each other's politics, some of us have good chemistry, others don't. Nevertheless, I have noticed something interesting, both when I was pregnant and now as a baby's mother, and that is that there is an incredible amount of questioning to each other's children. Even those who do not have children are interested in the children of others, and that is something for which I simply did not have a look until now, that is, the interest of both people who have children and those who do not have children. I heard Rasmus Prehn yesterday, who rejoiced that his eldest daughter now lives close to him again. There is my colleague, Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who has the classic guilty conscience towards her daughter back home in Kolding. There is Lea Wermelin, who tries to juggle in logistics and children's agreements during a break from the hall, which is Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, who proudly shows me pictures of his newborn, and the same goes for Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard when she had a new grandchild. Pride and joy shone out of their eyes. When it comes to our kids, we're actually kind of the same. I am sure that this is the case at every workplace, at least those I have been to different places and different people, but the interest in children, grandchildren and other children is the same, which leads me to the political message, for the private is political. After yesterday's statutory requirement for minimum standards, we now have to legislate something that we in the SF are very pleased we got through in the Finance Act: the right to postpone school start, not as a rule, but for the young children who need it. It is quite unreasonable that children should be pushed through the system and have a bad school experience that puts themselves in them for life, and it is basically part of SF's work that we as a society have more peace, that our children should have the right to be children, and for some it means an extra year in kindergarten. Another children's area that we are delighted to be included in the Finance Act is a class ceiling of 26 in the small classes. Mega classes of 30 or more give everything else equal noise, more unrest, less time for the individual child. We see far too many megaclasses, and learning, well-being and working conditions for both children and adults are affected. Our goal is a class ceiling of 24 students, so expect more from us in the coming years. In addition to the schoolchildren, the smallest children are the newborns, indeed, before they come into the world. There is much too much work to do in the maternity wards, and babies are sent into taxi between hospitals, midwives break up crying out of fatigue and frustration, unsafe, newly baked parents are sent home before they feel ready. The start of life must be a joyous event with calm and security, but for too many it is not like that today. That is why I am very pleased that we have had more than half a billion kroner earmarked for the feeding routes over the next four years, which must now be implemented. In addition, I would like to say something about our health services, although what several people have mentioned did not become a major part of the Finance Act, but it got its own partial agreement. I agree with what I think the rapporteur for the DF said, namely that we have a health service in massive problems. We do. There are, of course, coronas, but there are also a lot of other diseases that we do not talk about very much, which are also pushing, and there are humps from the past, there are overtime hours to be held, there is a massive sickness absence. There are many reasons for this. Both that we have been through a pandemic for almost two years, but it is also rooted in an unequal salary and an official reform, which now results in massive frustration among a lot of employees. I am really glad that we made the partial agreement and set aside some money for health care right now, but that does not solve the long-term structural problem, and that is why we in the SF will also continue to work for a dispute with the civil servant's pension, fight against unequal pay, and we are rather sorry that the government will not put money behind words, so that we guarantee that funds will follow when the work of the committee is available and we are going to start work to ensure equal pay. I would also like to say a little about the green in our Finance Act. As I have said a few times, I called the draft Finance Act when it was presented by the government, the world's most boring Finance Act, and I think that the Minister for Finance took it as an honor, at least when it came from me, because it was as if the division of labour was that the boring thing should be in the Finance Act, and all the exciting things should be in the reform work Denmark can do more than just now, which is a little quiet, but hopefully we will get back to it again. But I think we can say that the result is not boring, and that is one of them. Because of the green prints that made the deal. I would, of course, like to thank the government and the Minister for Finance, but I would also like to thank the other support parties with whom I think we had a formidable cooperation in the green area. Thank you to Radicals and thank you to Enhedslisten. We, I think, worked very well together to get the marine environment written into the agreement, and I would also like to commend Radicale for a fantastic boost of VE, that is, sea wind, so that we now double the effort we have made for over 30 years, in one financial law. It's a very good job. It has actually ended up being a very green finance law after almost not being green at all. We have also got two marine natural and national parks, and there is a huge area which is now going to be trawl free. I think it was Mrs Mai Villadsen of the Enhedslisten who said that our seabed is the pre-school of the sea. That is where the small fish must grow up, that is where the biodiversity of the sea must develop. And when you run trawl on it, you destroy future life below sea level. Finally, I would like to mention something that was incredibly important to us in the SF, and that was to have a drinking water fund. Our drinking water is under threat. We are one of the only countries in the world where we can drink our water uncleaned, but we cannot do that in the future unless we do something very serious about this. In half the drinking water wells, poisons are found. I believe that it has been found in the City of Copenhagen in 100 per cent. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances. The cocktail effects actually mean that we don't even know how bad things get in the long run, because there are so many years of delays, compared to what it does to our bodies, our chemistry and our children, and therefore it is absolutely crucial that we do not pour poison into the areas where we drill for drinking water. We have a drinking water fund in the Finance Act which now allows land to be purchased around drinking water wells so that we can ensure our drinking water in the future. That is absolutely crucial. I would also like to say a little about the discussion which has taken place on the right by several parties and which has filled a great deal, about the shortage of labour. I also had a discussion with Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen about it. What I am saying now is not to ignore the need for labour, because there are very many places, both in the private and public sectors, where there is a massive need for labour. It is there in our hospitals, in our day care institutions, in our care for the elderly, it is there in our master craftsmen, in our industrial jobs and in the liberal professions and in our tourism industry, that part of what has actually survived corona. With that reservation, I would say that shortage of labour is both a good and a bad thing. The bad thing is obvious to many of us, but I do not think that the things that should make us reflect on this have filled enough in the debate. When we talk about the solutions for labour shortages, we are talking about lowering the threshold so that people outside the European Union can come here and compete on labour. We are not looking at all the people in Denmark who are hiding away from the picture we have of that we hardly have unemployment in Denmark. But we do! The people who are outside that picture are the 76,000 young people between the ages of 15 and 29 who are not in education who are not in jobs. Who's doing anything for them? There are the 26,000 unemployed seniors who really want a job and who have a lifetime of experience to draw on, there are the 49,000 people with a disability but who can work. Now I see that I have to finish, so I just want to mention all the people who can work who want to work, and I think we should give them an honest chance. I was very fond of Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen's response and I hope that we can make an effort to get all those people into our jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222115919	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There will be just one brief comment and the sitting will be suspended. The first brief remark is to Mr Seligman. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222115928	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The last thing that the rapporteur concludes with, the whole question of labour shortages, I think may well be a little more unfoldable in relation to how the SF then thinks that this problem can be solved, when the SF also recognises that it is both and it is not either or it is not. What, then, is SF's ambition when we can hopefully make a political agreement in 2022? What is the level of ambition for an agreement? How much labour supply needs to be made and how does one see the weighting between classical reforms and what is more to be talked about: how to improve and optimise systems in relation to some of those outside the labour market who want to have a link with the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222120013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222120015	Thank you for the question. It is not polemical, but I would like to answer the question as if the rapporteur had asked me what I would do to increase employment in order for more people to get to work because the rapporteur used the term labour supply. For us in the SF, labour supply is a theoretical size which may be transformed into more hands, into employment, but which for too many years has been completely synonymous with a reduction in people's rights, a reduction in their wages and working conditions. We want to ensure that we now secure jobs for all the people in Denmark that we can get into work and who want to work, all those who are involuntarily part-time, all the seniors who want to work, etc., all the groups I mentioned. And then there is a more structural, long-term level where we need to get control of sick leave, which is gallopingly high in some sectors. Finally, with regard to foreign power, I would like to say that we have 15 million unemployed Europeans. We have a European community. Shouldn't we try to secure some of them jobs if we can't find labour at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222120120	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222120121	Thank you. In relation to that question, it is true that you can talk about job provision or you can talk about employment, but if you zoom in on the second part, which is about what you can do in terms of reducing sick leave, what you can do in relation to more part-time workers becoming full-time employees, what exactly does the SF think should be done there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222120146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222120147	We think that we should have a tripartite and a general discussion on how to get more people who want to enter the labour market or want to go from voluntary part-time to full-time. There are very many people who both can and will work today, but who for various reasons do not. Compared to sick leave, we have, and I think corona has also been a bit of a magnifying glass for that, some working conditions too many places that do not suit real people and where you get sick from going to work. I think that is the case in the private sector, but we have seen that in hospitals and elsewhere too, and we have seen that sickness absence increases when working conditions become too poor, and that is what we have to do in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222120240	Thank you to the SF rapporteur for now, because the sitting is now being suspended. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130002	The sitting is resumed. We shall continue with brief comments to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party. The first is sir. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130016	Thank you. Although we have taken a little break, I can now remember the rapporteur's speech, so thank you for it. What I really want to ask is whether this is an exit centre thing. It was the case that before we had the elections in 2019, a location had been pointed out to an exit centre. Then the new government came and said that it was not a good place and that now you wanted to find a new place. Has the SF as a supporting party in any way been part of discussing where the new exit centre should be located? Langeland was proposed and then taken away. There I also remember that SF thought it was a bad idea. We thought so in the Danish People's Party as well. However, in the context of these financial legislation negotiations, has a debate been held on how to deal with the people who are now moving freely in Denmark and who actually have a expulsion judgment?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130106	No. That's the short answer to the question. We don't. It goes without saying that people who have been convicted of crime and have to be expelled from Denmark must be somewhere with due regard for their fundamental rights, etc., until they can be sent out of the country. I've visited Kærshovedgård myself. Now we talked a lot about Danish values yesterday. I think it is absolutely fundamental that even people who have committed serious crime and who should not be in Denmark, but who should be sent out when they can, should have reasonable conditions to live under. So it was really just to put a little more words on the short answer, namely that it is not something we have discussed in the context of the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130206	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130207	Then I would very much like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not find it problematic that the government for which the rapporteur's party is a support party, before the elections promise the Danes, is now going to get this sorted out and set up a third exit centre in relation to the convicted criminal aliens, and we saw here two and a half years after this task has still not been completed. Then I am well aware that there has been a single bid that came over the night like this, and there was, as I said earlier, SF very much against it. But does SF have a suggestion about what's gonna happen to these people? For the situation now is unsustainable both for the people who have been convicted, but indeed for the local area in which they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130246	Well, I agree that this is an unsustainable situation in the long run, but basically I believe that it is the responsibility of a current government to resolve that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130258	Thank you. The next one is sir. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130301	Thank you for a good speech, especially the introduction with all our children sitting right in the eye. I think, of course, that the praise of the Radical Left did too, so thank you for that too. One of the things on which our two parties have worked very much is the green transition, in terms of nature, the environment and the climate. Now, in the new year, we are going to start these very important negotiations on a green tax reform, and there we have come up with a proposal in the Radical Left, where we are walking on two legs and where we are both introducing a CO2 That means that there must be room for manoeuvre. How does the SF view this in relation to the negotiations we are going to have? Do you also think it is important that there should be a green room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130406	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130407	Without having to go through a lot of semantics, we have discussed this with room for manoeuvre many times, and the SF's position, just to make it clear once and for all, is that the existing room for manoeuvre must be spent on welfare, otherwise we will not be able to maintain the current level, and then we cannot invest in relation to the demographic trait. It's just to tell you. But let us at last call it a green room for manoeuvre, we can do that. You can call it a lot of things. In other words, what is crucial is that we get funding for the necessary green conversion, as I know the SF and the Radical Left agree entirely on that. It can be said that the first step was taken with the tax reform, which we did not agree with so much as a hundred per cent in the design of, but we went along with it and which was done over by Mr. Morten Bødskov, in relation to saying that we must, on the one hand, provide a framework for companies in order for them to move in the right direction and, at the same time, there are some fundamental things that need to be changed. And as a former tax rapporteur, it is an old dream for me that we are so upset because there are really a lot of stupid taxes out there and hopefully a CO 2 will come.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130520	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130522	I thought that was an interesting answer, and I also agreed with much of that. However, the rapporteur says that the existing room for manoeuvre will not be used, because it is reserved for welfare. This means that a new room for manoeuvre must be created, that is to say, some other money which can then go to the climate area. What does the SF think of there? Because I do not see how we can achieve the green transition if we do not spend some money on it too. How are we going to get money if we are not allowed to use those who are in surplus in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130555	Well, one of the new things we do and which I do so much but there are more who are responsible for it... would like to commend my colleague Rasmus Nordqvist for being the author of, are these green government bonds, so we say to the outside world that if you invest in this, it goes to green conversion, and the good thing is that it has actually been extremely market driven. There is a huge demand for it out there, to buy these, and as far as I remember from the figures from the Ministry of Finance, just that part can provide only in the vicinity of 10 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130633	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130636	Thank you and thank you to the SF rapporteur. SF and Enhedslisten agree that one of the major negotiations this spring is the media negotiations, because it is basically about whether we should have unique Danish content in the longer term that can be compared to the products of international capital groups. That is what this is all about, which is why it is extremely important. We have the problem of starting with a starting point of minus 150 million. kr., compared to when we made the understanding paper, where we stated that Danish public service should be strengthened. Therefore, it is also good that SF and Enhedslisten have been together to make an addition to the Finance Act that funding should be available if you can otherwise agree on it, so that we can get it supplemented up. But my question is: what is the reason why the SF has helped to obtain funding of hundreds of millions, 645 million, in the criminal justice settlement? kr., over the period taken from Danish content? It may not be all that is taken from Danish content, but a large part of it will be taken from Danish content. I mean, how do these two things fit together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130745	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130746	I am pleased to have the opportunity to answer that question, because it is one of the things that has filled a bit on top of an otherwise really good agreement on criminal justice, on which I am really proud that my colleague Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt put on a lot of SF images. And this artist's VAT, I've also had a lot of inquiries about myself. One is that it was simply an EU requirement. After all, there has been a judgment that says that you cannot do this kind of thing I do not know whether it is technically state aid, but de facto we must not exempt it and therefore VAT must be imposed. It is not the case that artists should sit and make individual VAT accounts etc., but they are indirectly affected because their services are made more expensive. We are not happy about that, but it is an EU judgment that has fallen and that is where we need to correct it. And so it is true that some of it will be a financing element in the agreement on criminal justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130846	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130847	Yes, it is true that an EU judgment has fallen, but there has been no judgment on how it should be implemented. Why do we not implement what they do in, for example. Sweden? What is the reason why you choose the form in which you go for the television packages, which are the ones that bring public service and through the streaming charge fund a huge part of what goes to Danish artists and rightholders? There is no requirement for it to be financed in this way. Neither the Radical Left nor the Enhedslisten were involved in this, and we would have liked to have made an agreement on criminal justice as well. We just agreed that this funding is not acceptable. But then it means that the SF with us will commit to finding the 100-150 million. kr. that then goes out of the system, in relation to the media deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222130936-2	It does, because our ambition to ensure public service and to secure Danish content is one hundred percent. So it is more important than ever that, as a community and society and state, we say that this will be a guarantee for the future too. So I would like to guarantee that here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131019	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131021	Thank you. After all, we have reached the point of the green transition that every time the Folketing decides that more offshore wind farms should be set up, the Treasury makes money out of it. The latest offer of Thor Havvindmøllepark will result in the Treasury earning money from the fact that there are some private people who will pay to be allowed to set up wind turbines on our common sea, so that is why the agreement that is part of the Finance Act here, where the parties to the agreement have decided that more offshore windmill lands should be offered, on which the state can then make money in the future, is an agreement on something that all the Danish Parliament parties want to do. I don't suppose it's really something the SF or the parties to the agreements can beat their chests off?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131123	As far as I remember, the rapporteur has been a minister not long ago, so he could have done that himself, that is, if it is so easy. We have done what we have made the decision. But then I would like to make a comment on the obvious ideological differences on Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and myself. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen says with utter outrage in his voice that the state as if it were something different from all of us can afford to make money on our common sea. It was sir. Ole Birk Olesen's expression that our common sea is being used to set sea winds on. I think it is very good that the state, and thus all of us, is making money from the fact that there are private people who are also going to make really good money on sea winds.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131208	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131210	Well, that's how you can spend your answer time on rhetorical chatter, claiming that I'm supposed to mean things that I don't mean. I have no problem with the state selling our oceans to set up offshore wind turbines. On the contrary. That is also why I conclude by saying that this is something we are all in favour of. And that is why I ask once again: when you make that agreement and you say that it is now in the Red Finance Bill that the majority of the financial bill is greater for more offshore wind turbines, should you not, in all honesty, say that the policy you decide is a policy of which the whole parliament wants to be a part, but that you are now just doing it in a financial agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131248	No, I don't want to do that, because sir... Ole birk Olesen was a minister and the Liberal Alliance had a climate rapporteur, it was the last party in the Folketing that was climate-denial and denied the common scientific belief that climate change was man-made. That's right. At the same time there was a head of government, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who had an expression called green realism, which really meant that you would not do anything. So no, it doesn't matter what color the government is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131322	Then it is Mrs Susanne Zimmer of the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131326	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur mentioned the marine environment. We know that, like biodiversity on land, half of the species measured are in decline or are seriously threatened, so is our marine environment. It's a sea that is actually two and a half times as large as our land area. So I want to know whether the rapporteur thinks it is ambitious enough to put 10 million. kr. a year for stone reefs and 10 million. kr. a year off to national parks and then a drop for trawl in the belts. At the same time, we know that what threatens the sea is bottom trawling, it is traffic at sea, it is nitrogen and phosphorus emissions, it is oxygen loss and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131422-2	Thank you for your question, and thank you for the rapporteur's continued work on green conversion and the environment, nature and sustainability. It is true that life below sea level and biodiversity in our seas has been overlooked for far too long, which is why I am really glad that with this finance law we got some big footprints here. I do not think it is a small thing that we had two marine national parks or that we had a large area for trawling or that we had money set aside for rock reefs. Because it is not always the money size that matches the consequence it has. For example, the drinking water fund is of historic importance, but it does not cost all the world. And in relation to marine national parks, it is also a matter of regulation; it is not just a question of the money being dropped off. We would have liked to have gone much further, but I do not think it is a small deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131527	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131528	Thank you. Then I'll go to a completely different ball street. Could the rapporteur say a few words about how the negotiations are conducted between the support parties and the government? Because we have heard that the Minister for Finance has been very fond of a strict financial law, and at the same time I can hear SF urge that both the green and the welfare should be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131554	Thank you. It was also one of the things I myself tried to discuss a slightly more general discussion of earlier, namely this famous foot on the brake. How can you do that when you obviously have an economy that is heated in many areas, in some places overheated? There, of course, there are various political and ideological tools in the box for this. After all, I and the SF also presented to the Minister for Finance the possibility of introducing a wealth tax or similar, which has a dampening effect and which, at the same time, can also provide some funding. The green stuff does not contribute to the activity as it is called, so it is easy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131640	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131642	Thank you. One of the lessons I have learned over the last year here is that the SF has a very talented and professionally interesting financial rapporteur, who actually has a very good sense of nuance and to unfold the nuances. But she also sometimes has such a good ability to unfold the nuances that I can get a little confused. First of all, let me say that I fully share Mrs Bech-Nielsen's point of view when it comes to corporate responsibility, also to take the applications that come from, for example. people of my own age, 50 plus, seriously and not just pour them into the trash, and also responsibility for taking apprentices when it comes to work provision. We have a political responsibility not to reduce the living conditions of those who are on the edge of the labour market or outside when we try to favour labour supply. I totally agree with that premise. But I'm getting a little confused, and I'm gonna have to go back to the answer she gave to mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, ask something: Does the SF recognize that there is a problem with job shortages, or does it not recognise that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131802	We recognise that there is a problem with hands or people in employment. We think that there is a major problem, as I also said to Mr Beazley. Troels Lund Poulsen that we lack hands in the health sector, in the elderly sector, in the day institutions and in many other places in the public sector. There has just been a criminal justice agreement that will hopefully solve the problem that we have an historic crisis among our prison officers because they are being worn out. We also recognise that there is a problem in the private sector. What I was just trying to show, rather polemical, is that there is another side to that coin too, and that is that if you do not comply with that agreement for years, for example. If we are to help train the professional labour of the future and not take apprentices, then we are suddenly missing them, because this is the historic agreement we have made between the state and the business community, namely that we train people on the school bench, and then you take them out internship and finish their training there. And there are 10,000 people missing an internship, and that figure has been like that for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131908	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131909	I look forward to further negotiations on that, but it is only crucial that we are on the same planet and recognise that there is a problem of job supply that is relevant. That is why we do not have the answer to the question put by Mr Seligman. Troels Lund Poulsen. What is really the ambition of SF in terms of increasing labour supply? I am deliberately saying the work offer, because I heard the distinction made by Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen in her speech, but now I am talking about labour supply, and what is the ambition here at the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222131945	The crucial thing for us is that all those who can and want to enter the labour market should also have an opportunity to do so, both in the short and in the long term. There are some things that are going to take a very long time structuralally to correct, also in relation to sick leave etc., but also something that we can do in the short run, and it is in a hurry to train the many who lack an internship. Some of them are a year away from graduation. We have a lot of people who want to go from part-time to full-time, they want to do that, and you can make sure they come from tomorrow. So there are some things we can do right away if there is a will.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132023	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132028	I would like to ask a few questions about the SF's position on the Kattegat link. I will, because there has been quite a lot of resistance to this connection, not least at Røsnæs, for that matter also Asnæs, who has been at stake, on Samsø, which is cut through the connection, in East Jutland at Hov, where it is to go ashore, if I may say so, and taken up through East Jutland to Aarhus. I believe that many opponents of the project are calling for SF's position on the connection, and I guess the SF is actually calling for the fight against the connection, unless you think it is a very good connection. First of all, it is a motorway link that generates more cars along the way, more congestion, more climate congestion, etc. etc. So I think it would be very rewarding if the SF's rapporteur could inform the opponents of the project of where the SF is actually in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132137	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132138	I would like to answer Mr. Henning Hylllested, but I'm afraid I can't. This is not due to a lack of will. It is because there is a process in our party and there is a rapporteur in this area. I do not want to stand and speak on her behalf, especially when it has not been part of the financial law process. This does not mean that I cannot understand that there is that demand or that the question is not right. Because it's a huge project and we're gonna make a statement, but I can't do that from here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132213	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132214	That's fair enough. That is a real answer, I must say. It will be the case that we will have to take a position on this in future financial laws. There should have been a preliminary examination done by now. It hasn't finished yet. It won't be until spring. There is no money in the infrastructure agreement. It's not a single penny set aside for this. So this is something we are going to discuss in the financial law negotiations of the coming years, that is to say, to allocate money for further investigations, if you think it is a good project to proceed with. But may I make a final appeal to the rapporteur and SF: I think that we should listen very much to Ulla Holm from SF, who has been elected to Samsø City Council and who is one of the leading opponents of the project. She's really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132258	Ulla's really good. I know her well, and I really appreciate her, so that advice is taken along.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132307	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132312	I would like to ask you something that is not quite as shaky as well, and that is the fact that, unfortunately, the SF has contributed the crucial mandates to the criminal justice agreement that has been concluded, which means that prison places abroad, and not just abroad, should be set up, but in Kosovo. How does the SF feel about that anyway? We have seen that Norway has had experience of this before, where prison places were placed in the Netherlands and where it was very difficult to live up to the rights of the prisoners, and that was in the Netherlands. Here we are talking about Kosovo, where, I think, we can safely say, we are not talking about a country that has the best prison system in the world. So how does SF actually feel about concluding an agreement and delivering the crucial mandates for placing prison places abroad now on SF's crucial voices?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132410	I think that is a perfectly reasonable question. That is something that has flourished a lot. I cannot speak on behalf of all the SFs, but I would like to say on my own behalf that I am comfortable with it, and there are several reasons for this, and I know that our legal rapporteur, who, moreover, I believe, has fought for a criminal justice service that takes account of the 90%. inmates and not the 10%. This has been the case with health, with regard to the right to see your children, etc. In many ways, this is a fantastic deal. Sometimes you have to look at the conditions in the iron industry, and the fact is that we haven't had so many inmates since World War II. Our prisons are completely overcrowded. Our prison officers are being worn out to the sock holders. When we talk about, for example... Our hospital staff, who are both underpaid and worn out, can really say the same about our prison staff. The absence of sickness is thunderous. This situation cannot continue. It takes 10 years to plan to build a new prison. That is not an answer to the current situation. I would like to respond further if the rapporteur asks me again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132523	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132524	Well, there are language barriers. After all, we cannot be sure that people who are going to serve, for example. English and we cannot be sure that the prison staff in Kosovo can use the English needed to communicate. We are dealing with people who may need to be imprisoned and who may be part of a family with children, where both parents and children can be born and raised in Denmark • people who we would actually see as Danes, but who have done something that they should not, and who then do not have Danish citizenship. Isn't it a huge problem that we make these prison places in this way when there are these big problems in the agreement that has been reached?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132605	I do not think so, because these are people who have been sentenced to expulsion. They're never going back to Denmark again. They are not to be integrated into Denmark, and they are not to live in Denmark. They have been sentenced to expulsion for very serious crime, and those who have children come to the end of the queue, so to speak, to come to Kosovo. This isn't gonna be a prison on local terms. It will be a prison with Danish management and with Danish trained staff under the supervision of various Danish authorities as well as DIGNITY. So it will be something quite different, and it is true that the Dutch experience is something that needs to be taken further. I am confident that this will be done, and this is being followed up on a regular basis. I just have to say that the current situation is unsustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132651	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132653	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen for the rapporteur's speech, but I would nevertheless like to make one comment in relation to it. You give priority to what you think is most important when planning your rapporteur's speech. I noticed that the SF's rapporteur only mentioned the elderly in such a casual comment about the shortage of labour at all. I am surprised because in the past we in the Danish People's Party have been able to put such little faith in the idea that SF put the elderly area high on the agenda. After all, we are at a time when there are a great many elderly, caring elderly people, the most vulnerable elderly people, who have stomach trouble, because the municipalities are cutting back on help for them, and now an emergency response has been made, where you will go even further. We are talking about municipalities where you only get cleaned up so that you don't get sick from being with the dirt that is then in the home, or we talk about personal care that they can't help the elderly with and then at a Christmas time where everyone should be able to go to the next few days fairly safely. What are SF's comments on that? I think it was missing in the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132759	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132800	That is also true, and it is not because older people do not matter to the SF. Actually, my colleague, sir. Karsten Hønge, a major focus on especially the most vulnerable and poorest elderly, for the elderly is a very mixed group. After all, the elderly have also been included in the Finance Act, where money has been set aside for the area. But I don't want to underestimate what this has meant for older people. I also have an old grandmother who sits very alone because of corona and fortunately is fresh enough to live at home, but corona has had huge costs for many and not least lonely elderly people. I just have to say here from the platform in relation to the corona-related expenditure that the municipalities have, that the Minister for Finance has promised that the additional costs that are will be guaranteed. I just have to say that again, because it seems that there is some discommunication between the municipalities and the Ministry of Finance, because many municipalities are saying that they have additional costs. Yes, we know that; it makes sense, and that is why they are also covered. Then get to work out there! It's so important, even with cleaning.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132912	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132913	I'm sure that was a good answer, but that's just not what I was thinking about... not the financial conditions for the elderly either. I am thinking of the care and care of the elderly who cannot take care of themselves. On my table in front of me, stories from the country's municipalities are pouring out, cutting down on aid, and this is done in letters that are sent out to older people like this. Elders The case has, I think, quite rightly said: is it even legal? Should we not make an individual assessment? But it's happening right now out there. Elders The case then goes to the Ankestyrelsen to get this overruled, but one must also politically take some responsibility among the parties that have the majority in here and ensure that we have some dignified conditions for our most vulnerable elderly people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222132959	When Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl asks me an economic question as to whether there is financial coverage for the additional costs so that the elderly can have what they are entitled to, the care and care they are entitled to, and I have to say that we have discussed this in the financial legislation negotiations, and the Minister for Finance has put a thick line under the fact that there are corona-related additional costs, and they are covered by the state. For it is clear that this is an extraordinary situation which the municipalities cannot cover with their normal budgets, and that is why I can only say again that the municipalities must, of course, comply with the law and the extra costs they have are covered.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222133038	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Here you go, sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222133116	First of all, thank you to the five parties with which we have made an agreement. This was a good course of negotiations and we welcome the results. Thank you, too, to the North Atlantic colleagues who have also contributed some, we think, sensible steps in this financial law. Of course, we intend to vote tonight in favour of the amendments implementing the agreement and then vote in favour of the Finance Act at the end, but I will of course also give it a few words along the way. Denmark has a strong economy, and this means that through the Corona crisis, the pandemic, we have been able to borrow money to compensate businesses and businesses, for compensation for wages, for vaccines and all sorts of other things. This is because our economy is so good that very large loans do not burden our economy so much. Our economy is strong because changing governments have shown responsibility and due diligence in making reforms for years. Never have so many people been in jobs in Denmark, and it creates a breeding ground for a dignified and free life for the individual and good finances for society. That is why, in Radicals, the criticism of the Financial Law Agreement is also addressed to us in terms of employment. If our economy is not to be in crisis, we need to provide labour, as has been done in the past, and here we just have to say that yes, the financial agreement lacks initiatives. However, we have been pleased to note that the Finance Minister and the government have made a move which we are negotiating over these weeks and months, and that is important after 21⁄2 years with this government, which has not made reforms, but has pulled 10,000 people out of the economy. In view of the acute situation we are facing with a shortage of labour, that decision is becoming increasingly incomprehensible. We have noted that the playout is called "Denmark can more I" and there you will close the hole that has been created. We are now in the middle of a Christmas season, and we would like to see the II, the III and the IV and the V and the VI get started, because we would certainly like to see the level of ambition raised in those negotiations. These will be some of the most crucial negotiations next year, and we look forward to being able to take part in them, hopefully. The financial agreement for next year tightens the economy slightly because we are removing the housing job scheme for the part that is about craft work. The building goes out there and there's no need for that arrangement. Next year it will be removed and the money will be put in the box, so we will tighten the economy. In addition to that, it is a financial law agreement that does not significantly increase economic activity, and it is responsible, and we are grateful that the government has held on to it in particular through the negotiation process. We used the financial law negotiations again this year to make decisive green decisions. I have said before that sometimes it feels more like being a pusher than being a support party when it comes to cooperation on climate, nature and the environment with the government. We find it incomprehensible that a decision had not long ago been taken to establish renewable energy, which is a prerequisite for achieving our climate targets. Without electricity from renewable energy sources, we cannot achieve the goals we have set ourselves for CO2 We got through this, thanks for it, not least for the cooperation with SF and Enhedslisten. We also adopted two new national parks in Lillebælt and one in Øresund. Now we are also starting to protect nature at sea, and we are pleased about that. It follows on from the agreements we have made in recent years on investments in our nature so that biodiversity can come up. In August, the Radical Left presented an ambitious children's and school initiative. One in six children leaves primary school without basic skills in writing, reading and arithmetic, and too many children and young people are miserable. We simply cannot be aware of this because it means that too many young people do not have a dignified, free and meaningful life. We must be able to do better for both their children and their grandchildren's opportunities, but also for society's sake. In the past, we have set a billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of teachers who, yesterday, a broad majority could also adopt minimum standards in our day-care institutions. We have removed rules and bureaucracy, so time is spent on the task in our school, and so confidence is shown in the professionals, who are, of course, the ones who, together with children and parents, have the task. Of course, we would have liked to have carried out our whole major school play in this Finance Act, but we did not know that we could do that, but we gave priority to two parts of our initiative: an increase in teacher training and a boost in leisure education, what is called the SFO and club where children go after school. Good teachers are, of course, a prerequisite for a good school for our children, and with the Finance Act here we return part of the money saved by the previous government, among other things. in teacher training. In the Radical Left, we are satisfied with the results we have achieved in this agreement for our children, our school, the children and young people, and not least for the climate and biodiversity. We are very much looking forward to next year, when the parties of the Folketing will be negotiating green tax reform, negotiating how to get more labour into the economy, and we hope to be able to be part of that, so that we can also create a green, free and strong society in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222133740	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the brief remarks. The first one's from sir. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222133745	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. What I would like to hear a little more about from the rapporteur, who did not fill so much in the speech, but it may be because the Radical Left has embarked on a new course here towards the turn of the year, was the whole question of what ambition is in terms of job supply. One of the things that has somehow been in the radical DNA is that we have to conduct a responsible economic policy, and we fully agree with that. It is not a secret that the Radical Left has clearly expressed their priorities, but I also think that it might be interesting to hear here in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222133826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222133827	I now think it filled a great deal, but now I can have the opportunity to put it into practice a little. One of the things that we think is most important is international labour. Right now, of course, there is a slight decline in the economy due to decommissioning due to corona, but otherwise the problem outside these walls is huge, whether public or private. International labour is one of the things that can enable us to get some people into the economy right away and solve the tasks we lack. The second is a tax reform, where we would like to see enough in contrast to the Left that you look at the housing area, look at the interest allowance and then do something about it, cut it and then provide tax relief on work. That is where we agree with the Left that we should look at the top tax limit, i.e. when we start paying top tax. It is one of the most effective means of bringing people into the economy if you change it. The last thing is that if you now have the so-called Arnepension, early retirement, senior pension, senior job scheme, it could be that we could start discussing some of those schemes, because there is at least plenty of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222133928	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222133929	Thank you for that answer, which was very clear in many ways. This brings me to the whole question of the short-term and long-term challenges. Because there is a short-term challenge now, I think it also recognises the rapporteur with the labour market that we are facing, but if we just look forward to the future in 2023 and 2024 and 2025, then there will also be a structural challenge in ensuring that there is a large supply of labour. What is the Radical Left doing about it, because this is not something that just goes over in the course of, if you may say, a year or two?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134007-2	I think this is a job that you get back to again and again, because it's just that the more people working in Denmark, the bigger the social cake, and the more time in the wheels there is, and the more tasks we can solve together. That is what has been our economic policy for many decades. My answer is still the same in the specific area: a really substantial tax reform that shifts taxation away from work and into housing and pollution will be very obvious, and then, of course, to look at some of these different withdrawal schemes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134042	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134044	Thank you. And thank you for your good cooperation in relation to the Finance Act; I really do think so. There are some things that we look at very similar things, and then there are some other things that we look at a little more differently. I would like to ask you about some of what I have also promised earlier today in the debate about the many people in Denmark who want to enter the labour market, but where there are some barriers today. This applies to young people who are neither in education nor in jobs; it applies to seniors who want to work; it applies to those who want to go from part-time to full-time; and it applies to the 49,000 people with disabilities who actually want to contribute. I think that the answer is a little too often given with a one-eyed focus on foreign labour. Perhaps that is also a little harshly cut, but would the rapporteur not like to say something about these many people who actually want to contribute and whom I also think has a right to enter our labour market, that is, that there will be room for them when they want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134145	In fact, I think I spoke a little about the people in the speech, because they are one of the reasons why we, together with the SF, have now also fought for minimum standards for primary school. When one in six goes out of primary school without basic competences and so many mistrusts, it is clear that then you end up with some of the figures that the rapporteur has just mentioned, and we must prevent that by strengthening the institutions and our common primary school, so that people have the prerequisites for being able to commit themselves. It is clear that it cannot remove a handicap. It is, after all, too much to ask of primary school. But too many don't get those opportunities in life from already almost minus 9 months. So that's one of the things that needs to be done. And then I think we should consider how we can create a labour market in which some of those people can enter, for example. social economic enterprises. You could also look at the Igu scheme, which the scheme we have created for refugees is called, where you can get into a little lower pay, build on competences and then get up on ordinary terms. Because, of course, we must also try to get these people going, and one does not exclude the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134249	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134250	Thank you. Can I conclude, then, that the answer is not only foreign labour in relation to the labour shortage that is actually in both the private and the public labour market? Of course, I am aware that some of the things we have to do are at the structural long-term level, but there is also something that we can do now that will have effect in about a year's time. Again, there are 10,000 young people who do not have an internship and they cannot complete their training if they do not have it and, for many, they can contribute in one year's time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134324	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134326	But, as I said, one does not exclude the other. And I will say, as I also answered Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen states that the more people who are in work, the stronger the economy and the stronger a welfare society we can have. So yes, the rapporteur can easily deduce from it that it is not just about international labour; it is also about some of these people and also about whether some of us who are in work can deliver more. We are willing to look at it all in order to create a strong welfare society and solve the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134356	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134359	I note that there is no mention anywhere in the draft budget of any kind of daily allowance. However, I have heard Radicals say during the year that the level of coverage is too low, and then I shall hear whether it should be understood that the Radicals expect that if something is to be done in this area, it should be in the context of the other negotiations that are taking place and whether, in that case, the negotiations should be expected to be cost-neutral.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134428	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134429	Yes, we expect it to be during the negotiation process in connection with this Denmark can more I·, as the government has put forward, and it is true that the level of compensation is too high for some groups. Now the government has proposed that it is for all groups, even where there is no such problem. But it's in those negotiations. When the questioner asks whether it should be cost-neutral, I would say that it may well be that you choose to use some of the room for manoeuvre, but that is because there is money available in the economy. I wouldn't deny that. Basically, however, we are a party which of course thinks that spending proposals should be financed, so it should of course be linked, otherwise it is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134509	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134510	Well then, I would like to ask, because that means that if you are to finance any improvements in the benefit coverage, it must be done by taking them from the graduates. It is the only place that is planned for some changes to be made. • Whether it is the opinion of the Radicals that it is important to reduce the graduation rate very significantly in order to bring about other measures in the field of unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134534	Now you can take the money from somewhere else. That is the government's proposal, and there is a reason why it has not yet come through. We want to help look at the graduation rate, but we think that what the government has put forward is too hard. We would like you to start at a slightly higher level and make a staircase down. This is one of the issues we are debating, and I do not think that I am revealing any great secret by saying that this is also one of the reasons why what the government has put forward back in August, or was it September, has not yet come into being because there is no majority in favour of what the government has put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134605	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134609	I tried not so long ago to have a sensible conversation with SF's rapporteur about the stage at which wind turbine production in Denmark has come. It fell on stony ground in rhetorical chatter and an unwillingness to deal with reality, but now I will try with the Radicals. That is the fact that we are making a financial agreement to set up more offshore wind turbines at a time when we have already reached that point, that setting up offshore wind turbines is no longer a cost to the state; that is something that the state receives revenue from. It is certainly not something that can really be boasted of in a financial law context, because it is actually something that the whole parliament wants: both to set up the offshore wind turbines and that the state should get the revenue from setting up offshore wind turbines.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134658	I now think it is a good thing that we can boast that green energy has come to the point that it probably costs zero kroner in the Treasury. After all, it is an expectation, and I can say that one of the reasons why it was not on the surface is that it may be that expectations will not be met in five years' time or at some other time. That is why the Ministry of Finance looked very carefully at the risk that it might cost money, and that is why it was not on the surface to get it through, because otherwise that was also what I mentioned in my speech that the government would have done it a long time ago, but it is very gratifying. That offer, sir. Ole Birk Olesen mentions, came, I think, a few days before we published the agreement. And if all the offers we are now making go the same way, then it is a very good news that without having to spend taxpayers' money, at least not through the Treasury, we have to spend money on renewable energy, because it opens up some great prospects for getting a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134755	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134756	I would like to believe that if these negotiations have taken place before we were informed that Thor Havvindmøllepark will not cost the state money but will contribute to the Treasury, then perhaps it could have been some rather tough negotiations with the Ministry of Finance. But now we are there that we can already see that the current wind turbine supply is generating revenue for the state, and we also know that only one road has been taken with offshore wind turbines, namely that it has become cheaper and cheaper to set up, and we are gradually finding solutions to make use of the flow and make more money out of it. So for the future, we all want to help make this sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134835	It has been heard, and we really would have liked it to be done in a broad agreement, but as I said in my speech, our assessment was that the block was not the opposition, but the government, and that is why we took it up there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134850	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Susanne Zimmer of the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134854	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Free Greens had an ultimate requirement to include an anti-racist action plan in the Finance Act, and as you know, that is not part of the Finance Act; on the other hand, there is an effort in relation to hate crimes, and I think the rapporteurs I can agree that both are needed. So now I want to hear from the rapporteur: is the Radical Left satisfied that there has been no anti-racist action plan that we clearly need?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134929	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222134930	Unfortunately, we obviously need it. There is discrimination and racism, unfortunately, and that is why we are not satisfied; it was not something the Social Democrats were willing to do anything about. But then they were willing to do something about hate crimes, which is also a problem, and then we took it with us. However, I fully agree with Free Greens and Mrs Susanne Zimmer that it is incomprehensible that one cannot agree to spend 1 or 2 million. kr. to draw up a plan of action against discrimination and racism. You should agree on that in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135001	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135002	Thank you for your answer. I would like to move on to something quite different, namely agriculture. I also think that we agree that agriculture represents a burden corresponding to approx. one third of our CO2 emissions from agriculture actually come from animal production. So my question now is: will the Radical Left work to convert more of agricultural production from animal to plant-based production?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135039	Yes, we will. We arrived six months ago, I think, with a big proposal about more plant-based production. Now that I have been a member of the Danish Parliament for 10 years, and when agriculture and climate have been discussed over all the years, I am delighted that I have been known for the first time, for the first time, for the first time in fact, an agreement has been reached broadly in this Parliament to set some targets for reducing agricultural greenhouse gas emissions. And yes, there is much work ahead, and much has not been resolved with that agreement, but now we are in the process, and a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament has said to agriculture that future agriculture must be climate-neutral. I would like to start by welcoming this and saying that many years and months of work lie ahead of us, but now the goal is set, it is important, and most parties have been involved in it, so we can finally get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135135	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135137	I'd like to follow up on sir. Troels Lund Poulsen's question about labour supply. Of course, I must not refer to the negotiations, but I can say that the first thing I said to the Minister for Finance at the first meeting was that I thought that the proposal on which Radical Left and Conservatives had agreed in the summer had been implemented at least in relation to the employment allowance and the top tax, in other words that we should move the top tax line a tiny bit. This has a positive effect on employment. Now we get into these negotiations about Denmark can more, which is why the natural question is to Mr. Andreas Steenberg: Will Mr. Andreas Steenberg and Radical Left help KD implement Radical Left policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135234	Why don't we put it in such a way that we're gonna help each other? I also believe that the Left and the New Civil and Liberal Alliance agree with this. And I think we just need 10, 15, 20 mandates. Then we will have to see whether we can get either the Social Democracy or the Danish People's Party on board and also agree on funding, because that is probably where there may be some disagreement. So, yeah, let's help each other with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135257	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135257-2	We should be able to find funding for this, not least because it has a positive effect on employment. And that's a bottom job. Now, I'd like to change paths, and that's to follow up on Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen's entry into the whole of the energy situation and the fact that the state is gradually making quite a lot of money, by the way, also on the rising energy prices. I asked Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen about it earlier in the day. In fact, it is now also in Denmark that some have to be compensated for rising energy prices. Will the Radical Left help to reduce energy taxes so that people do not have to leave home because of rising energy prices?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135346	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135347	After all, the government has put forward that the electricity tax should be looked at, and we think that is sensible. We are more likely to look at the employment allowance and the top tax limit, as Mr. Jens Rohde mentioned it in his first question because it provides most on labor. However, we are also quite open and support the fact that we can look at the electricity tax. It is also a sensible approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135411	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135415	I would like to follow up Mrs Jette Gottlieb's question about the graduating rate. The Radical Left is incredibly concerned with theoretical labour supply in the Treasury calculator, which is something other than employment in the real world. One is a model, the other is the real world. Radical Left is very focused on it and will have 10,000 in increased theoretical labour supply. The government then comes up with a proposal that it should be possible to achieve this by reducing the daily allowance, i.e. reducing the daily allowance for newly trained and newly trained people. How does the Radical Left feel about this? Is it sometimes the case that even in the Radical Left you also have to be a little careful about what you really want, because you can risk getting something that is a really bad thing and something that you might not want? And how far is the Radical Left willing to go here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135509	First of all, I have to say that this speech from Mr. Rune Lund and Enhedslisten on theoretical labour supply have been designed to make it sound like it doesn't exist. That's not true. All the reforms that have been made over the past many years are the reason why there is room for manoeuvre which Enhedslisten has no difficulty in using. So what is going on in the Ministry of Finance is not just theory, although there are of course about all sciences and all models are prerequisites and science that evolve. But yes, I would say to Mr. Rune Lund, there are limits to what we want to do. In other words, when we say that we want to be financially responsible and secure people in the economy, there is, of course, a limit to what we want to contribute to. And we think what the government has put forward about the graduating rate is too hard. We are not dogmatic and we are not saying that we cannot look at it, but we think it is too hard. We think there should be a stairs down where you start higher in crowns and ears than what the government has set up. We are trying to get this through in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135608	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135609	I would like to arrest the view that it should have been documented that with the deterioration in daily allowances and other benefits that have been made, a room for manoeuvre should certainly have been provided there. We have seen that there are great uncertainties about those predictions, among others. in the area of unemployment benefit, where the prediction was that it would not matter much. But it ended up throwing thousands of people out of the benefit system. We have also seen as recently as last year how the Ministry of Finance changed the calculation methods in relation to what comes out of the deterioration of retirement age with an increase in retirement age. It was just with a fingertips made over 10 billion. kr. less expensive to permanently stop the increase in retirement age. So will Radicals abolish the graduation or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135701	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135704	I think there were several questions in it. We are not in favour of what the government has put forward, nor has it been part of our economic initiative, that is to say what the government has put forward about the graduation rate. So we are negotiating to get another stairway, another start, that is to say, that you get more money at the beginning when you have finished training. That's what we're trying to get through. And then there's the thing about the official work in here trying to figure out what's of the effect of something. Of course there are uncertainties, of course mistakes are made. But I think it must stand up to believers what is being put before us by the professionals, and we must believe that this is the best man's command.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135742	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. When the radical rapporteur has just gotten a little spit off, we welcome the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Thank you very much. Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222135813	Thank you, Madam President. We shall then deal today with the amendments to the Finance Act, which give effect to the agreement reached by the government with a number of other parties, among others. Enhedslisten. And let it be said straight away: it is an agreement of which I am proud and of which we in the Enhedslist are proud, because it is another good financial law. We had the financial agreements for 2020 and 2021, which were the best for 10 years. And again this year, we have negotiated a very good financial law, a financial law that shows what we can afford when it is not the bourgeois parties that are in power and where the money is thrown into grams in the form of tax reliefs, which far too much benefit the richest, while welfare is deteriorating and starving, and while bourgeois parties, also in government, are doing everything they can to juggle the figures to hide from the general public what negative consequences their policies have on welfare. The absence of bourgeois parties alone, when the budget law is being negotiated, means that we are making a good deal of progress. And we've done it again. In Denmark, in 2019 we gained a new majority, a welfare majority. And so far we have delivered, among other things. a boost to psychiatry, the first steps towards minimum standards, so there are enough staff to take care of our children, a plan for 1,000 more employees in the care of the elderly and much more. But we're not finished at all. We need to develop welfare so that the community promises more of us. The Enhedslisten has therefore as the main requirement for this finance bill debate on welfare that we should have a visionary expansion of our welfare society, namely that we should make the dentist free of charge in Denmark. And we have taken the first step. Until the age of 18, the community covers the cost of dental care, but when you are 18 years old, the dance card must suddenly out of your pocket if you have teeth problems. It is far too expensive, and many simply choose to stop going to the dentist. This means that many later in life must suffer serious consequences in relation to the teeth because they were not examined and treated in time. It just doesn't work out, and it doesn't make sense that it can cost you thousands of dollars if you break a tooth, while of course it's free to break a leg and get treatment at the hospital. So we've got a free dentist for the 18-year-olds, the 19-year-olds, the 20-year-olds and the 21-year-olds. We have secured this together with the other parties behind the Finance Act. I am immensely proud that we are now getting a whole new welfare right and that we are not just patching gaps in the welfare society, but actually extending it. This can be done by allowing people to continue in municipal dental care. At the same time, we have also started an investigation and analysis work in relation to the mess of systems for dental care for the vulnerable and for the elderly, because here there is an area that we did not solve with this budget law, but which needs to be resolved. We also get better conditions in the maternity wards with more midwives, a lift of the handicap area with among others. more hours of help and better legal certainty by withdrawing help, and we get a lowering of the class ceiling for 26 students in the 0-2th class, better opportunities for late school start, an increase in the education area with more funds for, among other things. adult education and fucking education. There is a great deal of good in this Finance Act. At the same time, we also received 1 emergency billion for the employees of our health services. It can benefit nurses, sosus, midwives and other employees in our health care, so that it can benefit patients. This has only been achieved because health professionals have been called out all over the country. They've been yelling and pushing. I can say that I and the Enhedslisten in the negotiating room have fought for you. We can also say that if it hadn't been for you and if you hadn't fought and shouted, it wouldn't have been for you. We went for 2 billion. kr., but it only succeeded in pulling 1 billion. kr. home, and it is not a solution in the long term either, but it is a concrete step right here and now to show recognition and show that we, a majority in Christiansborg, want to do something quite concrete to stop the employee flight. We are by no means in the end, but it is a step forward, and the next step is, of course, a battle with the consequences of the civil service reform, so that we in Denmark can ensure a proper salary for the welfare heroes who today receive less than they deserve. We also got a green partial agreement on the Finance Act, two new marine national parks. The Belt Sea must be trawl-free, a fund to ensure our drinking water, money for rock reefs in the sea and also a doubling of the wind capacity we can get at sea with wind turbines. We have also been allocated funds for climate aid, 100 million. kr. It is beneficial, but it is sad that it has not succeeded in getting close and much closer to the promises of the Paris Agreement and to new additional funds of 5 billion. DKK to be delivered on. It is sad that we failed to convince the government that more money is needed for the poorest in the world, both for long-term development aid, for humanitarian aid for refugees in the neighbourhood, for green development and for the fight against corona. On the other hand, in the green area, we have also been given years' work to the consumer ombudsman, to fight greenwashing, greenwashing, that is, when companies produce their products in a way that makes them more green than they really are. It is also a pity that we could not go further. We would have liked, for example, that we should have. This financial law could have introduced air fares. We did not achieve that, so there is still a fight that stands there, that is, a significant step in combating the threat of climate change. And well, then, we actually managed at least to get rid of the artisan part of the housing job scheme. Now there is only the last part left where wealthy people can get the community to finance their cleaning services. But such a burgeoning system, or bourgeois, is apparently impossible to get the Social Democratic Party to abolish, at least this time. We're just gonna have to try again, and that's what we're gonna do. We are not in the end, because we have not met the high expectations that exist. We have made a good financial agreement, yes, but we do not imagine ourselves, either ourselves or others, that we are in the finish line. For the Finance Act is just a step on the road to rebuilding and restoring our welfare after many years of cuts and deterioration. It is only one step on the road to our common task both to combat the threat of climate change and to ensure this recovery of welfare. There is a need to find solidarity funding and to increase equality. There is a need to take additional hold with the big companies that have shoveled money into the last 10 years. These companies have received tax relief, tax reductions, lighter depreciation rules, and in many ways tax relief has been granted to the richest Danes, which is totally unnecessary and unreasonable, and now we lack funding for the green transition and for the restoration of welfare. Just take the latest settlement on owner-occupied housing tax from 2017 with subsequent adjustments that give a massive tax relief to the wealthiest homeowners. In fact, it makes Fogh's tax stop on owner's homes look like nothing more than equality. In 2025, the 2017 Housing Tax Agreement will take 10 billion. kr. of the scope compared to if Fogh's tax freeze had just continued. And the amount will continuously rise towards 2040 to approx. 15 billion kr. There is a need to increase taxes on the highest incomes. Unemployed income must be taxed at least as much as income from work. Companies must contribute more and send less money into shareholders' pockets. It'll be good for society. This will increase equality, and it will ensure a fairer contribution for businesses to the common welfare and the welfare society that they also benefit from. So when we celebrate today that a good agreement has been reached on the budget law for 2022, we are also looking forward to a year in which it will be crucial to keep the course. And the Enhedslist will stand firm that the government must deliver on its promises. Climate action must be taken, welfare must be restored and inequality must be reduced. We have promised each other that we have promised the people. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222140720	Thank you for that, and then we will start with the brief remarks. The first is sir. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222140724	Thank you. Thanks for the speech that I didn't agree with, but it doesn't make much of a difference. I would like to know whether the Enhedslisten's rapporteur agrees with what the Socialist rapporteur said earlier in the debate, namely that the reason why there is a possibility of prioritising a large number of initiatives are some of the reforms that have been made earlier on the welfare agreement back in the early 00s, the pre-retirement reform, the unemployment allowance reform. Does the Enhedslisten recognise that it has been necessary reforms that enable the Enhedslisten today to help sit and translate the money available due to the fact that the room for manoeuvre has increased?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222140757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222140758	I think it is a good thing that we have that discussion, because I think it is important to make it clear that the impact of most reforms has not actually been investigated. On the other hand, we have seen, among other things. in relation to the daily allowance, the figures underlying the loss of benefit, which, according to the estimates of the Ministry of Finance, meant that very few people would be affected, turned out to be wrong and thousands of people were thrown out of the benefit system. We have also seen, in relation to the increasing retirement age, that just after the summer break last year, with a fingertips, the Ministry of Finance changed the calculations in such a way that today it is actually over 10 billion. kr. cheaper to stop the rising retirement age at 68 years than it was before. This actually means that we can rightly say that there is a very, very great uncertainty about the calculations underlying the major deterioration of our social safety net. So it is perfectly fair and proper to say that there is very, very great uncertainty about the calculations and the effect on the room for manoeuvre. But they have created great inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222140911	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222140913	I was not wiser than to say that Mr. Rune Lund didn't answer. That's so fair, I can't force him to. Could Mr. Rune Lund then tell what it is that Enhedslisten has taken of initiatives that have helped make Denmark richer? What are some of the things that have increased the room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222140927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222140929	We think it is important that we also increase employment in society. We think we should look at what we can do to ensure that more young people who today do not have an education or a job there is approx. 50,000 gets started. We think it is important for the elderly, who have the opportunity to remain in the labour market, to have an inclusive labour market which ensures that they can contribute if they have the opportunity. We think it is important that people working in the public sector, who are part-time but who want to work full-time and cannot be given the opportunity to do so today, should be allowed to contribute more. We are very concerned about what can increase employment in society, in the real world. We are less concerned with a theoretical supply of labour in the Treasury calculator, which is just a stepping stone to pursuing inequality-building policies.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141014	Thank you. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141017	Thank you for your cooperation. I just have to acknowledge the rapporteur's enormous knowledge of the details. Now we're not gonna tell you anything from the negotiating room, but sir. Rune Lund impressed many of us many times. That's why I'm gonna follow up on Mr. Knox. Troels Lund Poulsen's question and the debate we had when Mr. Rune Lund asked me where the money in this room came from. For Mr. Rune Lund continues to call it a theoretical labour supply and models that do not last, but one can see that, when such a financial agreement is made, we translate about 1.5 billion. kr. It is therefore money that has been provided through the reforms that are then theory. I'm having a bit of trouble making sense of that when I know how much mr. Rune Lund is in the numbers. So how can one with good conscience sit and spend money, one thinks is only a theoretically founded?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141119	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141121	That is because the money we are negotiating is theoretical money. Most people out there don't actually know it, but we're negotiating calculated money. The room for manoeuvre we are debating lies, after all, as a calculation below the structural balance, which is a calculation made on top of the right cash flow in and out of the Treasury, which is the actual balance. So everything we are negotiating is calculated money, and therefore it is incredibly important how to calculate the room for manoeuvre there is. It is just important to say this when we say, for example. Talking about the room for manoeuvre that comes from raising the retirement age, it is incredibly interesting that the Ministry of Finance, with a fingertips, does it over 10 billion. kr. less expensive to maintain the retirement age of 68 years. This actually means that, with the deterioration in the retirement age, there are 10 billion. kr. less than you thought. How, then, can this be solved in the account? This is solved by saying: okay, but then we assume that people will work voluntarily, that is to say they will work, even if they are not forced to do so, which has always been Enhedslisten's argument for not reducing the retirement age of those who are not able to work anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141233	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141235	It is true, of course, that everything we adopt here has tried to make some calculations. This also applies when the user fee is removed on dental examinations for young people. Then you've been trying to calculate how many people would go extra to the dentist and something like that. It just seems a little strange that Enhedslisten only, when it's something that Enhedslisten is against, thinks it's theoretical, but that when it's something that you're too much for, for example. also that there are now more people on Arnepension than they had been expected to do so is not a problem. Isn't this supposed to be connected? Shouldn't you believe in the calculations, whether you're for or against the measure?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141318	We are just allowing ourselves to have a professional discussion of the way in which we are calculated in the Ministry of Finance. And I can only note that Enhedslisten has long said before changing the calculation methods in relation to what, as far as the room for manoeuvre is concerned, comes out of the increasing retirement age: it cannot be that, according to your calculations, so many people will work more if you reduce the retirement age in that way; we do not believe in it. On the other hand, we said at the time that people will continue to work no matter what. That is what we can see today. People are working longer today than they need, even before the rise in retirement age has occurred. We can see that, and that is also the dynamics, and that is why we need to do the probes, and we think it is important to discuss the calculation principles in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141408	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141410	I understand it this way on the Enhedslisten that it is here that young people who are 18 years of age should have free dental examinations, whereas those who are 19 years old should not have it, because it is they who are 18 years of age, who get it both when they are 18 years of age and when they are 19 years of age, and when they are 20 years of age, while those who are already 19 years of age do not get it when they are 19 years of age, when they are 20 years of age or when they are 21 years of age, because it is being phased in over a few years, I think, but there you can correct me that Mr. Rune Lund looks skeptical... is the beginning of all dental care in Denmark having to be paid by the government, and there I would like to ask Mr. Rune Lund: Is this really a desirable scenario? It's probably 15-20 billion. kr. or something like that, and when that happens, we know that there are then some who brush their teeth every day and use toothpicks and floss and conscientiously go to it and who are not going to cost the public so much, while those who do not brush their teeth and never use floss and the like will cost the public very much. Is it really a wish that we should have in Danish society that it should be so?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141519	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141521	That's such a pretty funny argument, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says. One could use the same argument and say that people who are better at taking care of themselves and not slipping on the sidewalk should also have more right to have a broken leg treated in the hospital than others, or what? Well, basically, I do not understand the premise of the question. With this financial law we get free dentist for the 18-year-olds, the 19-year-olds, the 20-year-olds and the 21-year-olds, and we think it is fantastic and visionary that we are now not just patching holes in the welfare society, but actually expanding it. And the reason why a phase-in has been made is that we also want to do it in a sensible way, which is, of course, that we also have to ensure that there are those dentists and the clinic assistants out there who can actually go in to ensure that this is not just something we adopt on a piece of paper, but actually is something that is going to happen in reality. That's why there's a phase-in in what's decided.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141617	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141619	I mean, I find it very difficult to understand how what costs 260 million. kr. In 2024, only 40 million can cost. kr. in 2022, if it is not the case that it is those who are 18 years of age next year who will be able to have this free dental care, and so will they when they are 19 years of age and when they are 20 years of age, whereas those who are already 19 years of age do not get it when they are 19 years of age or when they are 20 years of age. That must be the case, since you spend only 40 million. kr. Next year on it. But that's the way it's supposed to be: no matter how badly you take care of your teeth, you just have to have your neighbor pay your dental care. I understand that is the ultimate wish of Enhedslisten, and it must cost the 15-20 billion. kr., it costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141702	It is true that there is a phase-in and it will probably be a phase-in in the way Mr. Ole Birk Olesen describes, unless we get the opportunity to do a faster phase-in if possible. The concrete phase-in must be agreed here afterwards. We think there should be a free dentist for everyone. We have received an answer here in the Danish Parliament saying that it will cost 7 billion. kr., but then there may also be some behavior effects, compared to the fact that more people who do not go to the dentist today will make use of the welfare right. So it may be expensive, but I would just like to say that tax incentives have been agreed, which will cost 22 billion each year. kr. They were agreed between 2015 and 2019, and if only you hadn't done so, there would actually have been money for this • ample advice.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141742	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141746	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur insists that something good is being done in relation to children, and we also recognise this in the Greens. However, what we are very concerned about is that we still have 40 000 children living below the poverty line, which we in the Greens think is totally unacceptable. We now also have young people and children suffering from the corona, and in the Capital Region there are 27 per cent. several references to psychiatry. This means long waiting lists, and it also means that the young people and the children who have entered the psychiatry have been hit harder. So there must be a lack of money here to address these major problems. What does Enhedslisten think of it, Enhedslisten is satisfied with the amounts set aside in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141838	No, we are not, and something needs to be done here, and that is why there will be negotiations. Of course, we already have discussions with the government on combating poverty, including child poverty. What we are concerned with here is, of course, firstly, the abolition of the 225-hour rule, the ceiling on cash benefits, the benefit of integration and, at the same time, the provision of supplies to combat the growing inequality. And it has to be said that too little has happened, including since the June 2019 elections. I think that the Social Democrats in the run-up to the parliamentary elections had an issue of inequality, which was very tumorous in rhetoric, and I think that what is actually being put forward by the government now is not quite appropriate in relation to the tumorous rhetoric that was so used up in the run-up to the parliamentary elections. So we think that the rhetoric used must be followed by concrete action, because then we can get to a better place than we are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141943	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222141945	Thank you. I am pleased with the critical attitude towards these shortcomings that are emerging, and I also hope that the Enhedslisten somewhere has a pain limit in relation to what you want to be a part of the blue stamp. This also applies to an anti-racist action plan, which I also suppose Enhedslisten would actually have liked to have included in the Finance Act. I can hear that the Radical Left would have liked to have brought it in. What does Enhedslisten say that there is now a financial law where there are only measures in connection with hate crimes, but nothing about anti-racist action plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142019	First of all, I would like to say that I am glad that hate crimes were included after all, because that was something we put a great deal of emphasis on on on the part of Enhedslisten. I can also say that we attached great importance to the fact that we could have a plan of action against racism, against discrimination, and that was actually something that we spent a great deal of time on, but it ended up not being included, and that was because it was something that all parties did not agree on. It seems to us that this discussion is not over at all, because we think it is quite grotesque that we cannot allocate a small amount of money to investigate something that we should all be interested in in here to investigate on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142054	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142057	At any rate, I agree with Mr Seligman. Rune Lund in. Well, it's completely outside the number that you can't agree on it. But peace be to it. Now I was teasing Mr. Knox. Rune Lund a little earlier in the day with that he had so come in blue jacket and light blue shirt, so one could be completely worried if he was going into the Mærsk dynasty. But then I heard his speech, and then, like again, the slogan: Bombard headquarters. That's nice, because like Niels Hausgaard, who is politically close to Mr Hausgaard. Rune Lund, says, unity makes stupid. And that is why I was particularly uplifted to hear Mr. Rune Lund's speech, when it came to the part about the supply of labour and what that theory is, as Mr. Rune Lund thinks it is. I am not sure that the business community agrees that this is theoretical talk. But now the question arises, because we are in the process of negotiating on this very point: will the Enhedslisten overthrow the government if it is the way the government moves into taking in more foreign labour and touching, for example. The top tax line?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142209	Let me put it this way that I do not have the imagination to imagine that a government elected on the basis it is and with the understanding paper we have produced will introduce legislation that will lead to social dumping or that will create inequality in Danish society. Enhedslisten's position on the things that Mr. Jens Rohde suggests, I think, is known. We do not want foreign labour to be opened up in a way that undermines Danish pay and working conditions. And we do not think that there should be any reduction in the top tax, which benefits the richest, which increases inequality and takes the money away from the recovery of our common welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142253	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142254	I think sir... Rune Lund must put her imagination to work, for the government may in fact be forced to seek a majority elsewhere if it is the case that Enhedslisten does not recognise that problem, but simply says that it is theoretical, namely that there is a lack of labour supply. And there's a lot of good for the government to know, but also for those of us who want some of these tools to be looked at in a balance where we also strengthen the trade union movement when we pull in foreign labour, because we also don't want social dumping or bad working and wage conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142335	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142336	If one day we had to decide to overthrow the government, at least I can tell Mr. Jens Rohde, that Mr. Jens Rohde will probably not be the first to know, and certainly not from Parliament's platform. But I can say that we have adopted an understanding paper in which we had some very intense discussions about the exact relationship between employment and inequality. We have landed on a paper of understanding which clearly says that inequality must be combated; we have landed on a paper of understanding that says that we should not weaken the social safety net, that we should not increase the economic divisions in society and that we should not pursue a policy that increases inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142420	Then it's mr. Kim Valentin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142422	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to begin by congratulating the Enhedslisten and the rapporteur on this financial law. This is an amazing piece of work that Enhedslisten has done. Imagine being able to sit in the finance minister's office and put the pen on a finance bill. That's amazing! Congratulations. You're gonna have to celebrate big from here. We might as well be a little sad at the other end that we didn't get any more influence. I think the Danes will be. They will be very sorry that we are not seeking a broad majority and that parties such as the Enhedslisten are allowed to pursue as much of the economic policy as has been laid down in this Finance Act. But let me ask you a question. In the past, the rapporteur replied to my colleague, Mr Seligman. Troels Lund Poulsen, but didn't really answer the question about what has been done by Enhedslisten to make the Danes richer? Can I get some concrete answers? What has the rapporteur done through the last three financial laws to make the Danes richer?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142535	We have pursued a policy of inter alia: Corona, a policy that has held hands under Danish economy. We have done so, and we have had to argue against, among other things. Left, compared to the fact that the Left has conducted a rhetoric and a campaign against a majority who wanted to pursue an expansive fiscal policy and invest us out of the crisis, where it was depicted as if it were a debt orgy and you were driving Denmark off the edge. It has saved thousands of jobs. We have invested in green conversion, among other things. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of We are backing up, for example. also strongly up on the proposal to the Danish Investment Fund, which lies in the proposal that the government has put forward in connection with Denmark, can more I.D., which will mean that we will be able to hold companies more closely at home, rather than being listed or moving abroad or being bought by foreign capital funds. So there are many proposals that we have supported and worked for that increase in employment: the real
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142644	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142645	What Enhedslisten says here is that it is better to get 50%. out of 100 kroner. than getting 40%. out of 200 kroner. That is, in fact, the argument that Mr. Rune Lund is here. But let me ask you something else. The fact that the debt is growing is relatively easy to see. 25% the debt is growing, and there are good reasons for this. But will the Enhedslisten help to repay this debt, or is the government going to get that majority from the blue parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142719	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142720	The debt can easily be repaid, and it could be even more repaid if, for example, it were to be repaid. not such that from 2015 to 2019 the bourgeois parties had agreed on tax incentives, which will cost 22 billion each year. kr. If it had not been done, we would have had a negotiating reserve of 22 billion. kr. bigger, for this Finance Act... durable. I mean, it's really about the bourgeois parties pursuing a policy of emptying the box. We have made tax concessions, among other things. in relation to the landowners, which I mentioned in my speech, and then they have tried to make it as if there was enough money for welfare, even if there was nothing at all. That is the difference between the policy being pursued now and the policy being pursued before, we are actually honest about what we are doing, contrary to what happened before the June 2019 elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142804	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142808	What are the tax concessions that the property owners have received against which Enhedslisten is opposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142818	The 2017 Housing Tax Agreement will mean the same as if Anders Fogh Rasmussen's tax freeze had just been continued. The housing tax agreement means that by 2025 there will be a move on the room for manoeuvre of 10 billion. kr., as would not have been if Fogh's tax stop had just been continued. That amount will rise to approx. 15 billion kr. in 2040. I can send Sir. Rasmus Jarlov replied to the question I asked in that case, and then Mr. Rasmus Jarlov read it with his own conservative eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142851	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142853	I am well aware of the housing tax agreement that we have helped to conclude. It's a funny rhetoric that Enhedslisten has, because you start by saying: if the housing taxes had risen very much. Then you take it as a starting point and say: Now housing taxes are increasing less. And then it is claimed that the landowners have received tax relief. So, because you do not charge even more than the large increase in housing taxes that has occurred in the period, Enhedslisten believes that this is a tax relief. Yes, it is an absurd rhetoric that it is said in this way that higher taxes on housing are a tax relief because you could have charged even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142929	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222142931	I note that if Fogh's tax freeze had only been continued, by 2025 there would have been 10 billion. kr. more in the room, rising to 15 billion. kr. more in the room in 2040. It's a fact. And it was something that was introduced under the bourgeois government. This means that the room for manoeuvre has been emptied from a very large amount of billions, and that money has not been spent on green conversion or on our welfare. I really think the 2017 Housing Tax Agreement is a core example of how economic policy has been conducted under the bourgeois: you empty the box of tax cuts, and then you pretend that there is enough money for welfare, even if there isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222143011	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no more brief comments, which means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222143046	Thank you, and thank you for many good contributions in today's debate already. As far as the Conservative People's Party is concerned, this year we have again presented our own draft budget to show that it is possible to pursue an economic policy that makes Denmark richer. If our draft budget were adopted, Denmark would be 58 billion. kr. richer a year, and about 57,000 additional people would be at work. Danes would be allowed to keep more of their money, but thanks to the extra growth in the economy that would be created, it would still be possible to allocate more money to health care than the government has done in its draft budget, and we could also allocate more money to the elderly, culture, climate and nature than the government has done in its draft budget. It would be a richer, greener and healthier Denmark; it would be a more conservative Denmark. It is actually not so difficult to make Denmark richer. The recipe is ready, and it's pretty simple. It's just a matter of wanting to do it. Priority must be given to reducing taxes on work and on businesses, to keeping things back in the public sector, and to not creating more schemes that reward people to stop working. It's not harder. Unfortunately, however, the government insists on the opposite to continue to raise taxes, on the growth of the public sector and on making arrangements that pull people out of the labour market. Fewer and fewer Danes therefore have to support more and more people who do not work. The government has for the third year in a row made a finance agreement with Enhedslisten, SF and Radicals. It is three parties that love finance laws that lower Denmark's gross domestic product and withdraw people from the labour market, so that is what has now been agreed for the third consecutive year, also in the Danish Finance Act 2022. Denmark's economy is otherwise sensible. There is high growth and there is high employment, and when I hear the government take credit for it, I come to think of children driving veteran cars in Tivoli. The cars run on some rails laid by others, but the children sit in the driver's seat and turn on a steering wheel and think it's their fault when the car turns. The tracks for the Danish economy are laid by an international boom, sharply rising stock prices, huge purchasing power among the Danes, a large domestic consumption because people cannot travel, and not least by the reforms that previous governments have made and which have created a strong Danish labour market with more in employment. At the same time, we can thank the Danes for having been vaccinated and shown very responsible corona behavior. That's why it went well for the Danish economy in 2022. We could almost return to a normal everyday life this autumn until we were hit by a predictable new wave of infection. But if you look in isolation at government policy, not much good has been done for the Danish economy. 22,000 people, we hear now, are being withdrawn from the labour market with an Arnepension, the public sector has been expanded by 20,000 people here under corona, and the Finance Act here increases transfer income once again and even more. That is, in fact, a very honest priority. There is a pension for Arne, and there is money for the trade unions • higher deductions to the trade unions want the government to implement. Higher taxes and higher transfer income are apparently more important to the government than a strong Danish economy. That is a fair priority. It's an honest difference of opinion between the government and a party like ours. What is just a bit double moral is that at the same time one prides itself on having an economic policy that strengthens Denmark's economy, because that is not the case. We would like to resume the tradition of strengthening the Danish economy, which all Danish governments in the last 40 years have confessed and honoured. It has to pay to work. Denmark must be one of the best countries in the world to operate in so that we can earn all the money that is the basis of welfare. At the same time, we want to give priority to health, the elderly, climate, nature and culture, and that is something we can afford if we want to. But it is clear that we cannot do it all, and when we make a financial law like this, where we do not actually point to a single place, as far as I can see where less money can be spent, it is clear that there will be no more money for other areas, and that is actually amazing, I have to say that we have a budget of 1 100 to 1 200 billion. kr., public crowns, and yet there is not a single place where you can point to savings proposals. There are, in fact, many budget lines in such a budget of 1 100 to 1 200 billion. kr., so it should be possible; when you looked beyond it, there should be some places where you thought that here we might be able to handle it a little more efficiently than we did in 2021. But all the expenses are passed on, and then you spend a little extra, and then you raise the tax. We would like there to be a little more responsibility and to be obliged to look at the costs you have carefully to see if there were not some places around where things might be done a little more efficiently. In our view, it would be right to show the respect for taxpayers who go to work every day and work hard to prioritise all the things that we spend money on here at home. We look forward to future reform negotiations with the government. It's a little stalled, I guess. We hope that this will soon get under way again. As the government knows, and as I have said many times, I think I have said it every time there has been a debate on finance law, we are always available to help the government if it wants to make the reforms that make Denmark richer, that is. raises gross domestic product and gets more people into work. So the government has a choice: it can choose to make that type of reform with us and the other bourgeois parties, or of course it can choose not to. Our door is open and we are very much looking forward to starting, hopefully, with the reforms that the government has been neglecting for nearly two and a half years now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222143722	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222143727	Thank you. Civic voices working! Thank you for concluding a joint agreement on criminal justice, which also followed up on the joint agreement on police last year. On the basis of the tax freeze, as I understand it, the Left would not be part of either of the two agreements. I am quite happy to have a partner in the Conservatives, where it is not a blockage. So on the question, which of course is about Arne and the statement that your President, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen came to the Chamber the other day when he said that Arne is retiring for other people's money. I think that is quite a statement anyway. We are talking about people who have been on the labour market for over 40 years. Then the Conservative Finance rapporteur could not explain to us what is meant by retiring for other people's money, having contributed, perhaps as unskilled, and actually working and paying taxes for over 40 years on the Danish labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222143819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222143820	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left was previously surprised to be asked about Arnepensionen because he had read up on the tax stop instead. I would say that I am not so surprised because I have now heard the Socialists put the question about my party chairman's statement to, I think, three other rapporteurs here earlier in the debate. So it's probably the least surprise in the world that I actually get the question, since it's our party it's all about. In other words, we are not in favour of Arnepensionen, and we are not generally in favour of increasing transfer income in Denmark, because transfer income is, of course, that some other people are paying. They go to work and pay taxes, and then that money is spent on transfer income. That does not mean that you are a bad person because you end up on a transfer income. There may be all sorts of good reasons for this, and when politicians provide some services, they are, of course, perfectly entitled to choose them. So there is nothing wrong with choosing the arrangements that are made available, but we think it is wrong that so many services are provided. And in the case of Arnepension, it is a question of some people who are less worn out being able to choose to retire early, and then some who are more worn out must continue to work and pay taxes to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222143926	Thank you. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222143927	So the statement that it's for other people's money really just covers everyone who goes on a folk pension. Is that how the answer from the Conservative rapporteur should be understood? For down here in the Chamber it sounded like you were such a bit unsolidarian and antisocial if you do like Arne, who has worn and dragged on this labour market, and quite rightly not so worn out that you actually get some years of retirement and have some years with your grandchildren. These people we are talking about are, after all, people who, on average, live at least 5-7 years shorter than the rapporteur and I. But perhaps what was meant was that it was all about everyone who is on a retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144003	Thank you. Then we'll get answers. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144005	I do not yet know how long I will live, but of course there is a difference between how long different groups of people will live on average. And we all have a healthy old age and that you can retire and have some years when you are healthy and can retire. But Arnepensionen is then an extra early pension compared to the ordinary retirement age, where we already aim to have them there approx. 141⁄2 years on average on retirement. And we think it is a little violent that we should then lower the retirement age even further.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144039	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144041	Thank you. I hope it's okay that I jump a little to Conservatives' own policy, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov also mentioned. We have also had a debate elsewhere, for example. on Twitter, about this, but I would also like to bring it in here, because I think it's exciting when we have these ideological differences. Your play, which I can read to it, will give the richest percentage of 33,000 kroner. more between hands, while the poorest 10%. will get 550 kroner. out of it. That way, of course, you can do the rhetorical trick of saying that everyone gets something out of it. Now, of course, there is also a bill to be paid because there are a number of elements to fund it here, but the rapporteur does not think that it reinforces the image that the Conservative People's Party is such a party for the wealthiest and that those who have more must be given more. It's a huge difference between who gets something out of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144146	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144148	The Conservative People's Party sees itself as a party for the industrious and industrious, and that also means that we believe that it should pay more to work than it can in Denmark today, where you can pay well over half of what you earn from the last hours you work. We simply do not think that is fair. You can hardly put the tax down without it having the effect that the people who pay the most in taxes also make the most of it. So it's very, very difficult. So if you use it as a criterion and say that we do not want to make any reforms that make those who pay a lot of tax the most of it, you cannot put the tax down. So in Denmark we now have the OECD's highest tax burden, and it cannot be right that it should be the mantra in here, that it should not be put down, and that one is antisocial if one wants to make reforms that make the Danes avoid being the people in the civilised and developed part of the world from whom politicians take the most money and spend it on all sorts of items. kr. do not find any savings at all on anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144255	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144257	It is, of course, because we do not think that their savings should be made, but rather that they should be invested in. However, I fully agree that we should be allowed to change our tax system, which I actually think would be dressable, but when Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is now very concerned that it is worthwhile to work, why is a tax regime supported, where there are a large number of work-free gains that are taxed very low or not at all, whereas work, even with the Conservatives' proposal, is still being taxed relatively high?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144331	That is also what we are trying to do about. We are trying to make working more attractive. It is quite true that there is a paradox in the fact that it is better to go and improve your home than to do your job in Denmark, and that is wrong. But there are two ways to make the paradox less, and one is of course to raise housing taxes, but you can also put the quite unduly high taxes on work a little lower, and that is the way we want to go so badly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144357	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144359	The Conservative People's Party, before we got a new majority in June 2019, has agreed on a lot of tax incentives. From 2019-2019, 27 billion was agreed. kr. In the case of tax relief on a permanent basis, it is approx. Twenty-two billion. kr. a year. It's a lot of money, and they could have been spent on other things. Now, in this financial law, we have given priority to welfare rather than tax relief, among other things. to expand welfare with a new welfare right, namely that we get free dentist for the 18-year-olds, 19-year-olds, 20-year-olds and 21-year-olds. So my question to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov and the Conservative People's Party are: If there is a new majority in power after the next parliamentary elections, will the Conservative People's Party preserve what has been adopted with free dentist in the 2022 Finance Act, or will the Conservative People's Party abolish it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144455	Thank you for the praise for our fiscal policy and the great achievements we achieved in the bourgeois government after all. We are very pleased that we have permanently reduced the tax a little bit. After all, we are not opposed in principle to tax-paid dental care for young people, because that is not a bad thing. This is not something we would like to abolish if it did not cost anything, but we find it difficult to see that it is fair that we should levy even more taxes to finance it, so that is where the problem lies. When we vote against this later today, when it comes to the vote, it is because we find it difficult to defend that the Danes have to pay as much tax as they do, and that is why we have to prioritise between different things. But we are not in principle opposed to better public-paid dental care, because that is a good thing, but we just do not have as much money to distribute as Enhedslisten has, because Enhedslisten is always ready to tax the western civilised world's most heavily taxed population even more than they already do. But I do not give any guarantees as to whether or not that arrangement should take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144600	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144601	It's a clear speech. I find it appalling that the Conservative People's Party will not support the extension of our welfare society, so we will have a free dentist for the 18-year-olds, the 19-year-olds, the 20-year-olds and the 21-year-olds, and I have to understand that the answer is that, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov says that you will consider abolishing it, roll it back so you can spend the money on something else, for example. tax relief. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144635	Well, I think it should be understood the way I said just now. I think we should not go around being shocked that there are some who have a little different priorities for economic policy than we have ourselves, because then I think it can quickly be hard for the psyche to be so easy to get out of control. In general, I would like one to refrain from having such a violent rhetoric. We disagree about the size of the state, and Enhedslisten is always ready to raise taxes, and it seems that there is no limit to how high the Enhedslisten thinks the taxes should be while we are very concerned about keeping back with public spending.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144710	Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144712	Thank you. Now we know that aviation is one of the major CO2 so how does the rapporteur think it is related to the need to have a CO2 and if aviation is to continue to expand, what should be dropped compared to CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144743	It's a bigger picture. There are many things that should be dropped compared to CO2 We have been in a number of agreements and hope that there will be even more. There are, among other things: I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. There isn't one specific thing like that. Broadly in society, including in aviation, we must reduce CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144817	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144819	Thank you. Is the Conservative People's Party in favour of one's CO2 having to pay just as much in CO2 or should there be any imbalance, so that means that what agriculture does not pay should all of us jointly pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144840	Yes, in principle we are in favour of a similar CO2 but in practice it is incredibly difficult and almost impossible to make a similar CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144915	Sir. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222144916	It was actually a very interesting discussion. It should also be remembered that agriculture and transport are not part of the ETS system. Then you choose some other instruments. So be careful to compare apples and pears in this context. We're gonna go play a little bit with the idea that sir... Rasmus Jarlov's president could be a suitable prime minister in this country. Yes, one laughs at that in the Enhedslisten, but then one has to raise one's back, but it also requires it to base itself on such a balance point. Now we are faced with these labour supply negotiations, and that is where we very much share the view that we should have some tax reliefs not on the basis of such a reasonable consideration because we simply have to get some more work supply, and that is one of the best ways and cheapest ways to do it, and it does not increase very much on the Gini coefficient, by the way, if you move the top tax limit. But if you're gonna get someone to eat that wood snail over there on the other side, then we're gonna have to be willing to give in to something. What could it be in conservative optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145028	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145029	First of all, I would like to say that we are always for sale for flattery, so thank you for the initial words of praise. I am very pleased about that, although I do not think that is exactly what we should spend the most time on. Yeah, I just don't know. I think that the left, the government, the Socialists themselves must make their wishes known, and then we will take a position on them. I could define some things for them that I would like them to want, but they're probably better at it than I am. Of what the government has put forward by reformists in what they have called Denmark can do more, that is not all we are opposed to. There are, then, some sensible elements that we can take part in. For example: This is a reduction in the graduation rate, one of the things that we actually think is sensible and that can finance what you want to spend money on, among other things. tax relief, if you wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145126	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145127	I'm thinking that graduation is a whim to blue. We've heard that too. It's not like the left is a good idea. But we are of course of the opinion in the KD that if that is the case, if, for example, we are going to have to do something about it, then we are going to have to do something about it. If we say that we have to have some foreign labour, then we have to strike a balance, that we also strengthen the trade union movement. In fact, this is what the government is trying to do: to strengthen the trade union movement. Balance! If we make tax cuts, they should not be paid by the most disadvantaged. Then we will have to agree to discuss, for example. poverty benefits. Can the Conservative People's Party see itself in such a debate with a balancing point?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145209	We can certainly see ourselves in a discussion on poverty benefits. We are very concerned that there should be no poverty in Denmark; there should be no doubt about that. We are also concerned that there is the balance, that you do not get more on transfer income than you do in low-paid jobs. So that's what we keep coming across: that we should, like, be just a little bit below what you get out of being in a low-paid job so it pays to work. However, we are very concerned about this discussion and also about having a well-functioning labour market in addition. We think it has gone a little far in the government's proposal to spoil the trade unions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145243	Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145245	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to drill a little bit in this from the rapporteur, in relation to what is right and fair. Does the rapporteur recognise that those who have the shortest and smallest education and also the hardest jobs have less time for retirement than those who have long education and less physically demanding jobs? I simply need to know whether the rapporteur actually recognises that there is, of course, reasonable reason why they should also have the opportunity to retire earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145325	I believe that there is an over-representation of people who die early, among people who have had very hard jobs with low wages, compared to the average of the population. So, yes, that connection I think is there. But it is not the most accurate indicator of when you die early; it is, of course, to look specifically at the state of health of people. And that is why we wanted early retirement to be granted on the basis of a medical assessment of who needs it, rather than on the basis of such automatic criteria that if you have been part-time for many years, you can retire early, as was done with Arnepensionen. We find that difficult to find reasonable. So we simply think that it is a matter of the fact that the criteria for Arnepensionen are unfair and do not affect very precisely those people who need to be able to retire early; for them we would like to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145415	Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145417	In other words, the rapporteur simply does not recognise that if you have worked as a sosu assistant or as a slaughterhouse worker, or if you have cleaned up a part-time school, or if you, like the one who walled my bathroom, have got up every day with aspirin to drag bricks and walls people's houses, experience being hard hit and need an Arne pension. I find it sad that the rapporteur does not recognise that there are actually people in this country who have worked so hard to build the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145451	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145452	I think that Mrs Camilla Fabricius should just go home and hear again what I actually said, because I actually acknowledged that there are some people who, on average as a group, will, of course, die earlier and get old earlier than others and that there is the connection that there is an over-representation of them in low-paid jobs. So I did not say that I did not recognise it; I actually said the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145516	Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145519	Thank you so much. I recognise that the rapporteur says so. That is why I also think it is very relevant that we should take a look back to 2006 when the welfare agreement is being drawn up. It's made because we Danes live longer. If we are to finance our welfare societies, we also need to stay longer in the labour market. So, with regard to the rapporteur's recognition that those with the shortest education, those with the hardest jobs, are living longer, will the rapporteur not recognise that it is not in this way in relation to the intentions of the welfare agreement in 2006 that we are now removing all the opportunities for these people to withdraw from the labour market in the past and to be worthy of dignity? Because, as I understand the rapporteur, one must almost have a wheelchair or a few crutches if one is to be allowed to leave the labour market if it is up to the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145616	Well, it's not serious from Mr. Knox. Anders Kronborg's side, because it's just something he invents. After all, no Conservative has ever said anything like this at all, nor does anyone have the view that one should almost sit in a wheelchair before retiring. That is simply a point of view that does not exist. It is very convenient to play up against it and then pretend that you mean the opposite, but it is not very honest when that view actually does not exist at all. I mean, we are in favour of people who are worn out being able to retire early. We do not believe that the criteria of Arnepension affect that group very precisely, because we believe that these are unfair criteria, which are not about being worn out, but about some other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145654	Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145656	Let me ask you another way: the rapporteur recognizes the welfare agreement in 2006 and the retirement age is increasing gradually as we live longer. So there are some citizens, some who are in the labour market out there, who are actually insecure. They can feel a wear on their own body. They need to take painkillers to take care of the working day. Does the rapporteur not fear that, if all the opportunities to withdraw from the past are removed, it will also be possible to move people's support to the welfare agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145726	No, I don't. I think we should explain what the welfare agreement is about. We've got one of them. We made an agreement that we aim for a retirement time of an average of 14.5 years. So instead of going out and making scare pictures that young people are very, very late in retirement, so that even at a young age they begin to inculcate that picture, you should tell us that we aim to have about the same number of years of retirement as you have today. I think that is honest and fair and also the right thing as a society. For it is, of course, easy to distribute pension rights, but it must also be paid for by fewer and fewer people who have to support more and more people. It's hard to make it stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145802	Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145804	Thank you. I think it's probably because Conservative voters often haven't had very hard physical work that they can have that kind of strange views. However, I would like to ask another question: on the issue of criminal justice, where Conservatives are involved in a settlement. I understand that we need to rent a prison in Kosovo for the prisoners we do not want in Denmark, and then they can take care of them. It's one thing. Another thing is that it has to be financed with VAT on culture, and then you also take some money from development aid. It is a quite cynical way of making politics when we do not want to take care of our prisoners ourselves. Is it really conservative policy to put VAT on culture in order to spend it in a prison in Kosovo?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145858	I think it is very similar to a debate on social media when you start by saying that Conservative voters are such people who have never had a hard physical job. In other words, it is such a competition to insult each other as much as possible, rather than exchanging honest views in this Chamber. It is our policy to be part of the agreement on criminal justice, where we have some prison places in Kosovo. We think that is a good idea. So funding is not something we have come up with, but that we have accepted. And, as I understand it, it is a VAT on cultural activities dictated by the European Union and which we cannot therefore avoid from coming. It then gives some extra money in the Treasury that we've agreed to spend this way. But it is my understanding that we cannot help but have that tax, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145946	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222145948	Now it was with the work honestly meant it wasn't something I just populistly suggested. But we'll take that during the break. You charge VAT on culture, and then you say: it is because the European Union wants to. But could it not then be said that a hard-pressed cultural life, as it is at the moment, among other things. Because of corona, of course, should that money be returned when you are forced to collect VAT on culture? It is really harsh to say to culture, which is almost lying down because of corona, that it must then provide extra. I don't think it's very decent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222150024	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222150025	I do not know whether this is actually obscene, but I agree that it is really a pity that there is an extra tax on cultural life. We would like to talk about making tax cuts that are targeted at cultural life in one way or another. We would very much like to enter into that discussion. I think it is going to be difficult to make it happen to the same people who are now being charged something more in taxes, one to one; then you probably break with the EU directive, because you then really do not levy that tax. So I guess that's not possible. However, some discussion in the direction of helping cultural life is something that we would like to take part in.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222150058	Sir. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222150059	I think that when we keep drilling in this Arnepension, it is because we do not really have an understanding of the people for whom it is intended; an understanding that after a long working life you do not want the humiliating situation, it may be, to go through the job centre and explain your misery, then to be entitled to an early retirement pension or to go on a senior pension scheme. That is why we wanted to give it as a right. I recognise, of course, that it is an honest political priority to give it here as top tax incentives instead. But when your political rapporteur, Mette Abildgaard, says that Arnepensionen is almost a life of rush and dus, and accuses the Social Democratic Party of promising gold and green forests to a certain group of Danes, as if Arnepensionen were to give access to a luxury life, I ask the rapporteur again if he perceives a grant of just under DKK 14,000. a month before taxes like gold and green forests.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222150201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222150202	No, I don't. And I do not think it has been said in this way either, as if it were an expression of a luxury existence, with the benefits resulting from Arnepensionen. But it is an ancient discussion between Social Democrats and Conservatives, and it has been there since the 1800s, so all this about whether rights should be universal, that is. to all or whether they should be targeted people who really need them. There we have always been in favour of targeting services to people who need them. So there is nothing new in that discussion. I believe that if members of parliament from the 1800s were to appear for discussion, they would recognize the positions of the Conservative People's Party or Right, as it was then called "the Social Democratic Party." So I guess that disagreement's gonna stay there. We do not therefore believe that people should be asked to go to work every day and pay taxes to provide benefits to some people who do not actually need them. I believe that it should be targeted at those people who really need it, including people who are worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222150301	Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222150302	And so the rapporteur cleverly avoids dealing with the situation that some people are facing, namely that with the hat in their hand they should be approved to be miserable enough for them to come up with a scheme because it was invented for them. Well, that's fair enough. Some, as Conservatives like to promise gold and green forests, are already the most affluent. Conservatives will both provide top tax incentives, lower share taxation, lower the tax ceiling on personal income and abolish the tax on employer-paid telephones that are at their private disposal. This will give 100 Danes a tax relief of 1 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222150343	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222150344	The latter must almost be a misquote, because what we are proposing gives more than 100 Danes a tax credit, which gives very many Danes a tax credit. We're pulling 100,000 out of the top tax. Maybe that's what was charged. But thank you for enlightening all the good things we want to do for the Danes. We certainly believe that it is something positive and fair that we are allowed to keep more of the money that we have earned ourselves. So, yeah, we think that's basically fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222150410	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no more brief comments. And after a little bit of despriting, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222150437	This is a Social Democratic Finance Act, which is made together with the socialist parliamentary basis of the government, yes, and then the Radicals, and that is what it is. And when it is someone who is made by the Social Democratic Party with the fingerprints of the Socialists, there is no surprise that we in the New Citizens cannot be involved, and then there is no need to spend any more time on it. So I would like to spend a little more time talking about New Citizens' Policy, and it is quite simply because I think it is much better and because I think it addresses some of the problems that are actually facing us. Denmark lacks labour, we look into a lower growth, we have not solved the problems of foreign policy, and the money in the public sector spends quite wrong, and the consequence is that people experience worse basic core welfare, and the employees who have to deliver it experience that they are under pressure. Many of these challenges we are trying to solve, not specifically with the proposals we have for this financial law, but generally with the economic plan we have put forward, the direction we have set in New Citizens, for a long-term new economic plan and for a new direction for how the public should be run and what freedom citizens should have. There is a key element in our plan that I would like to focus on here today, and it is about cleaning up the massive and long-standing greed and the error priorities that have taken place in the public sector. It is an ambitious project, but it is also a necessary project. We have committed ourselves to finding 6 billion in our plan. kr. greed and unnecessary use of tax dollars every year. We recognise that many politicians and parties before us have talked about this, but it hasn't always really been delivered, and it often ends up as consumed punks in the media and up here from the platform. In New Citizens, we say what we mean and we do what we say. That is why we are also taking the first step this year and we have found the promised 6 billion. kr. the budget as far as the individual items are concerned. The 3 billion. kr. We are giving back to the citizens in tax reliefs and the other 3 billion. kr. We are targeting real, tangible boosts in specific areas of public, bourgeois core welfare. And this year, these are 3 billion. kr. from the frå area to lower registration fees for cars down to max. 85% and a significant reduction in the electricity tax. It's a total of 5 billion. kr. Now maybe some people are thinking: Hey, 5 billion. kr., how can they do that? It is actually because it is such a good idea that you can lower taxes for 5 billion. kr., and then it actually costs only the Treasury 3 billion. kr. In addition, we raise the elderly cheque for pensioners with the lowest income, and that is DKK 7,500. a year after tax. Those people are actually experiencing significant increases in their fixed costs right now in this winter, for example. electricity, heat and other things, and these people don't have the same opportunities as others to raise their income, and we think it's quite fair that we give them a hand to help them in this period. There are also many other groups that are actually being hit in these days by rising electricity prices, heat prices and other things, and we would urge the government to call for some negotiations on how we can address this problem, because it is on their budget for this. The 3 billion. kr., which we would like to use to improve the basic core welfare, we recommend this year to spend on health care for a massive annual boost beyond the planned. To ensure that the funds we put out do not just go to more cold hours, more project and more work that does not go to the bourgeois core welfare, there are some conditions, some guidelines we put on this. It is not because we have to run it in detail, but we think it is fair to set some guidelines, some conditions. We believe that there should be a demand for a greater proportion of the health tasks in the municipalities and regions to be put out to tender. We believe that there should be a demand for unnecessary bureaucracy to be reduced. The nurses themselves point out that 4 million. hours of the documentation they do does not give any value whatsoever and should be removed. We must listen to this, and we must also put it as a requirement for the regions out there. We believe that the overall capacity of the health service should be increased. I don't think anyone here today would say that would be a good idea. The level of activity in health care simply needs to be raised and the satisfaction of employees for those working out there must also increase. So, yes, it is possible to give priority to the basic, bourgeois core welfare and also much more than what the government and its support parties are actually proposing in this Finance Act. All it takes is for one to be willing to look well into the state budget and look at the massive greed and the misguided use of the citizens' tax dollars that are going on. We find, for example. the money this year by reducing the consumption of integration costs, the consumption of journalists in DR and the consumption of foreign aid to various lobby organisations. In short, we have begun cleaning up in the new citizens, and we are moving the funds to where they benefit, to the citizens and to the citizens' core welfare. We know that this means less power for politicians and more power for Danes, but we are happy to do so, because we think that is good civil policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151106	Thank you. There are brief comments. First of all, it is from Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151109	Thank you. Lars Boje Mathisen You're welcome). I am quite happy that the rapporteur says that what you say is what you want to do, because then there is something here, including historical ones, that we need to correct, Mr President. rapporteur. It is in fact the case that New Citizens write on their website that it is fair and fair to allow previous pensions for those who have been most years on the labour market, and yet New Citizens voted against an Arnepension. So now I ask New Citizens: will they then, according to what they say, correct it and join the Arne Agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151153	Well, that's absolutely correct. We agreed with the principles that we should do something for the elderly and the people who had been on the labour market for a long time and who were worn out. We agreed entirely with that. That is also why we entered into quite specific negotiations with the Minister for Employment until the end. There we could not get the ends to meet, because with the way the agreement was made, it was a right that was not based on whether you were really worn out, and we wanted an assessment to be made so that it was actually the worn-out that applied here; then we could easily have seen ourselves in it. We like the principle of looking at the people who have been on the labour market for a long time • those who are worn out and we think that we should improve that, and that is why we also think that the senior pension scheme as there is should be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151243	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151245	I just repeat from New Citizen's own website, where it says that it is fair and fair to allow previous pensions for those who have been most years on the labour market • most years Lars Boje Mathiesen Exactly). That is why I am also asking the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party: does this mean that if, God forbid, a bourgeois majority should come back, then New Citizens will vote in favour of abolishing Arnepension?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151311	We have not yet taken a position on this at all. There is no concrete proposal about it. If the majority changes and a new government basis is to be created, we have to take it there. If there are other parties wishing to do so, it must be there. I'm not taking those negotiations here from Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151329	Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151330	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It's always good to talk about what you want. It's always an advantage. I just have a question. We also had a debate last year on some of it, and then it was 100 billion. The rapporteur says that 6 billion have now been found. kr., and that some of them are also used for tax relief in relation to car taxes, and that can be positive enough. But then you also return 3 billion. kr., and as the rapporteur said in his speech, the money is being spent quite wrongly out there. There is simply so much money to be found in the public sector, so what is the reason why new citizens are adding 3 billion to health care. kr.? If you think that the money is being spent quite wrong, why is there a need for more money? Can't you just spend the money right?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151415	Yeah, well... When we say that the money is being used incorrectly, it is because it is being spent in the public sector, and there are also places in the health services where we believe that it is being used incorrectly. If we look at posts, we believe that the increase in the number of academic posts in the regions versus the number of nursing posts is a missed priority. But we're not gonna sit around and do business. That's why we put four directions that we think is fair enough to put down over this. But there are a large number of areas that we wonder about in the health service.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151447	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151448	Yes, but that means that only 3 billion have actually been found. kr., for the 6 billion. kr. After all, you have returned in that ugly machine called welfare, so that means there is a shortage of 97 billion. kr. in the economic plan to provide tax relief. Are they coming that fast? Because I can then understand that, in order to make savings in the public sector, public money needs to be provided. In order to stop health care from spending money on greasy, crazy, and other things, you have to add money out there. So how will New Citizen find the remaining 97 billion? kr. for tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151524	Oh, it was a good try anyway, but you don't get a scam teddy bear for that one. It is clear that when you make an economic long-term plan that goes over 15 years, there are some of the measures you can start right away and others you can move. When you make a long-term plan, that's what you're looking at when the time comes. And I think the financial rapporteur is very well aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151542	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151543	Thank you. I think it's really good when people go to extremes. If you don't bother, you don't have to leave at all. Now New Citizens have taken over the Enhedslistens slogan that we say what we mean and do what we say. In my opinion, all parties should have that as a parole. I've been looking at this plan, which seems a little far-lifting. For many years we have been blamed for not financing what we are proposing. We have been doing this for the last 15 years, and still the myth is that we are not financing it. But now that New Citizens are proposing something, I'm going to try to find out how to get to those figures... I can't figure out how many civil servants are going to be dismissed. If I figure it out one way, it's 100,000. If I figure it out the other way and it's your own numbers I'm using then it's 180,000. I don't understand. Can the rapporteur tell me how many civil servants are to be fired according to this plan? When are they going to be fired? And is that net or gross?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151654	When the rapporteur mentions that there are these two figures: the one that we have in our plan, and then the 180,000 figures, it is because we take the AE as the starting point, which has done an analysis of what the figure will be if we put forward the continued growth of the public sector, but we do not want to do that, so we cannot count on 180,000. So that's the technical explanation for the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151714	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151715	I was not much wiser because if demographic trends say that we are going up to the figures that AE says, it is 180,000, and that is why I ask: is it 180,000 full-time people? Is that 180,000 people net? Or how are you supposed to do that? And if it's only 100,000, I'd like to explain how to look at the equation, and is it people net, or is it just the number of heads?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151742	There maybe the Enhedslisten's finance rapporteur can help the rapporteur afterwards. It is, of course, a computational figure, and it is so that if you reduce something, you assess the costs, how many are public employees, and that is why it is adjusted, and then there is such a figure that is calculated technically. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151802	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151810	Says what he means and does what he says. I went to the polls in 2005. Lars Boje Mathisen and you're still here! No, I'm sorry, I can't say that. Yes, yes, but a few years later I had left Christiansborg, and then I saw that Enhedslisten went to the polls on it. Now it has become a slogan for New Citizens, and that is excellent, because politics is not about copyright; it is about getting people to steal your ideas, so we become many enough to implement them. So it's a good thing if it's a mantra for everyone, but it was a little story about it. Freedom, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, I know that NB is very concerned, at least for the right ones. And then I thought, when I heard Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's speech: Why sit and dose the freedom from in here by saying that now we do this and then make lots of demands, by giving some money to something and then making a lot of demands on it? Well, that's the medicine we've always used in here. Why not give the municipalities the freedom to dispose of services and taxes themselves and give the regions the freedom to do the same and then perhaps hold us back from in here a little bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151924	I think that basically is an excellent idea. I am a huge supporter of decentralisation. In fact, we go a little further in New Citizens, knowing that we are actually sending out the money even more decentralized than just out to the municipalities; we are sending them all the way to the individual institutions, to the individual schools, to the individual nursing homes. So we are huge supporters of that idea. I am very, very opposed to centralisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151945	Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222151947	Then I do not really understand the rapporteur's speech, because it is precisely about giving something there, and then we make some demands, and then we give something there, and then we make some demands. And again it will be the same medicine where we dose the freedom from in here and so they can sit out in the municipalities or out in the institutions and eat the bread of mercy from our hands. I guess that's what we need to get away from. If you mean something by freedom, then set the municipalities free, set the local democracy free, set civil society free. Instead of sitting and making all kinds of demands from in here, let them define it for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152025	Well, I totally agree with that. And if we're going to have a discussion and do some legal work about creating a different structure in terms of how the regime is going on, then I totally agree. After all, this is a fiscal debate on how we are going to prioritise the funds that we have, and it is like a different debate. However, I would very much like to take the second debate on how best to organise our society, because I do not think it is very well organised as it is right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152044	Then it's mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152045	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand that New Citizens want to finance part of their plan as it is called, by phasing out the post-retirement pay. It's still the case that 300,000 sensible people in this society contribute to their own old age by having the opportunity to go on early retirement. Could the rapporteur not explain how New Citizens are going to implement the phasing-out of early retirement? It sounds simple to do so, but it does affect the ability of a whole lot of people to have a dignified withdrawal from the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152131	Yeah, that's right. We don't have an element of it in this year's Finance Act. We don't. But it is true that it is an element of our basic long-term economic plan. There is, of course, a phasing-out from 1966 onwards, which means that we will begin phasing-out in seven years, so that the phasing-out of the early retirement is completed. It is not a complete winding-up, but a phasing-out and phasing-out of the early retirement in 15 years' time. So that will be what will be the dividing line. Those who have already paid for their early retirement will, of course, be able to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152207	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152208	Yeah, it's gotta tickle a little bit in the stomach of these 300,000 that's reasonable, but then leave it alone. I did not quite grasp whether New Citizens will abolish Arnepensionen, but what I have read out is that New Citizens operate with the fact that if you are to have an early retirement from the labour market, you have to be asked for state medical supervision, which somehow makes an assessment of whether you can leave the labour market earlier, despite having been there for at least 44 years before you have been 63. I would just like to ask: where is the decentralization that Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen spoke so beautifully about?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152250	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152250-2	In here in the Folketing we can just report ourselves ill and then walk around that right, you might say, doesn't have the citizens. What I hear the rapporteur talking about is that you should not assess whether you are actually worn out, but you just have to say: I feel worn out. Then you can withdraw from the labour market, and then some others will have to pay for their lives. It is not a principle that we basically agree with, we have a different approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152325	Then it's mr. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152326	Thank you. This is a very good place to pick up, because I would like to follow up my colleague's question. The same place on the New Citizens' website, where you write that it is fair and fair to give the possibility of an early pension to those who have been most years on the labour market, you also write that you must get away from a system based on the right to spend other people's money. Does the rapporteur think that you withdraw from other people's money when you go to Arnepension after having started working as a teenager and have contributed to society and paid taxes for nearly 45 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152406-2	I would recommend that you may just get your employees to coordinate it next time when you send out questions, because then you don't have to answer the same thing again. But that's fair enough. The fact is that you do, and you do, because the politicians in here have used rubs and stumps and a little more of the money that people have continually paid in taxes. So when you introduce an Arnepension, there is not a big treasure chest over there with our good finance minister, whom you just take the money out of, because they have been saved up year after year, because politicians thought it was okay with a little moderation, so we have something if we need to spend it, and that is so money that we have to find out. So it's for other people's money that has to pay them into taxes at this time and in the next few years to finance this. So, yes, it is absolutely.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152458	Sir. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152459	I still think it's a bit of an insult. The same place on the website you can read that New Citizens want the Danes to be many years on the labour market and out of the job centres so that they can have a dignified treatment, and I admit that it is a bit in the same order as everything else. However, I do not understand why New Citizens both want to abolish the remnants of the early retirement pension and do not want to support the Arne pension, which gives the Danes, with the longest and hardest working life, the opportunity for a dignified withdrawal from the labour market. If New Citizens believe that this group is entitled to dignified treatment, why are you working for them to be subject to the discretion of others?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152533	What I think is fundamental when we talk about mocking is that it is an insult that these people have worked so many years on the labour market and have been subject to such a high tax burden that they do not have the opportunity to withdraw themselves with their own resources when they actually feel that they are worn out. After all, it is the real insult to the people out there that so much money has been demanded from these people year after year from the Folketing and spent many of them on immigrants who have come here and could not work, many of them have been sent abroad, so they are now standing and are worn out and do not have a savings themselves. That is the real insult that has been made to the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152613	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152614	I have also read New Citizens' Plan on the website, and I understand that 100 000 posts must be closed in the public sector. New citizens will not tell whether it should be sosu's, whether it should be nurses, whether it should be primary school teachers, or whether it should be educators. I think that is questionable enough, but I am also in doubt as to how many public employees really have to be removed according to New Citizens' plan, so my question is this: New Citizens writes in the plan that today there are 840,000 public employees, and when 100 000 are to be cut, it is because you want to reduce to 740,000, or is it to be understood that, when they write in the plan, there will be 50,000 additional public employees up to 2035, so that you reach 890,000 employees, you will cut down to 790,000 employees? So what are we gonna end up with? Is it 790,000, or is it 740,000?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152720	I do not think it is surprising that we are not explaining which office worker is sitting on some project in Horsens municipality in the year 2032, which may not be working anymore. I think it is no wonder that this is not being explained. The Enhedslisten has just helped to create a climate plan where you make a contrast, a percentage goal, and then it is then filled out. So I don't see anything strange in that, I must say.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152750	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152751	I would like an answer to my question because I asked a question. Does the economic plan of New Citizens mean that the number of public employees will be reduced to 740,000 or to 790,000? The reason I am interested in the question is to find out what New Citizens really think. One is a reduction of 100,000, but the other is actually a reduction of 150,000. So what does New Citizens really mean here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152820	Under current policy, and if we had 90 mandates and ran economic policy, it would be 100,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152827	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I would ask the rapporteur just to wipe off. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222152851	Thank you. When Mrs. Helle Thorning-Schmidt was president of the Social Democratic Party, a slogan called "Den Danmark du kendt" was elected. That is also the slogan that this government has made its financial law policy and its policy in general, because you manage just like the one you know about Denmark. It is an administration government, and the red majority behind this government is an administrative majority. You just prolong boards. If we spend 1,200 billion in 2021. kr. in the public sector, in 2022 1,200 billion will be spent. kr. plus a few more percent. This is how it goes on infinity immediately and immediately, and then it's just a little more billion kroner every year, because you have the idea that the Denmark we have today is just perfect, but just a little extra billion kroner is missing every year, so we have a perfect Denmark. There can be no fundamental change either, there can be no medium-sized reforms, there can be only small adjustments, which are then called reforms, and sometimes they are also adorned to be historical reforms, but the reality is that these are small adjustments and that they are a little more than several billion kroner each time, and that is what we are content with. Therefore, like the previous finance laws and the government's other policies, this Finance Act does not address the challenges that are in Denmark, because sometimes challenges require more than just adding a little extra billion kroner. I would like to mention three challenges today that the government does not address. The first challenge is that many Danes think they have a hard working life, and they think they deserve an opportunity to withdraw earlier, but the economy we have set up in Denmark, the tax burden we have in Denmark, does not allow people to make savings unless they have a very high income, so that they can retire early, if that is what they want. We in the Liberal Alliance have proposed what we call a free pension. Our proposal is that every Dane who is at work should be allowed to set 675 DKK. tax-free of each month in a free pension account. If you do so for 40 years and if you have a very moderate return on your savings of just 3%. a year, after 40 years, you will have a savings of DKK 600,000. This corresponds to almost five years' payment of the old-age pension, pension supplement and post-tax old-age check. So with our proposal, free pension, you can save tax-free to withdraw from the labour market with your own savings almost five years early, if only you have been on the labour market for 40 years. The government doesn't like that kind of freedom. Perhaps the government also thinks it is too expensive, because it costs the Treasury 8 billion. kr. to grant a pension free of charge per year. The government prefers something that is cheaper, but the government then boasts much more about, namely Arnepension. It only costs 3.3 billion. kr., not 8 billion. DKK, but only 3.3 billion. kr., and that's good enough, though, the government believes that only a few people have the opportunity to go to Arnepension. In order to retire, at the age of 61, you must have been on the labour market for at least 42 years. If you have been, you can get a year earlier off the labour market. If you have been on the labour market for 43 years at the age of 61, you can retire two years earlier. If you have been on the labour market for 44 years at the age of 61, you can retire three years earlier. This is what can happen with this government, and it is a relatively limited part of the Danish workforce that has already been so many years on the labour market at the age of 61. Our proposal, and that is why it is more expensive, and that is why it is a better offer to the Danes, is that everyone who goes to work should be able to save up to withdraw earlier. So there has been a lot of talk in this Chamber today, where civil parties have been freed, whether they would abolish Arnepensionen. And the answer has been yes, that perhaps they will, and I can say yes to that, but that is because I want to introduce something that is much better. I want to introduce a free pension, and the Liberal Alliance wants to introduce a free pension, and that is much better. Another point where the government does not address the challenges that Denmark has is the question of getting more people in Denmark to work. We are in a situation where the demand for people who want to work is huge in Danish society, and everywhere you are looking for people who want to make an effort, but yet we have close to 700,000 Danes of working age who are not working in Denmark. We can get more people into work in Denmark, it's just that it should pay better to work. The tax on going to work must be lower, and some of the benefits granted when not working must also be lower, so that the difference in amounts will be greater. We know that in this way we can get more people to make their labour available for the demand that is out there, and we also know that it is not a good society that has a world record like the Danish one, in proportion of the population of working age who are not in work, on transfer income. It's not a good society. A good society has a greater share of people of working age in work than the Danish society does, but it requires some reforms, and it is not something that this government wants, nor is it something that this government can do with the parliamentary majority it has. A third point on which the government has failed enormously is in relation to our health services, where we just have to note that we are now faced with decommissioning again in Danish society. The government and a majority in the Folketing have decided that a number of sectors in Danish society must shut down, children are sent home from school, young people in upper secondary and higher education are also sent home because things cannot be done with the rules that the government has set, because health care is simply so strained by the fact that there are currently 35 corona patients in the respirator that we cannot have a free society anymore. 35 corona patients are currently in respirator, and that is why we cannot have an open society. 35! Back in 2020, when we were preparing health care for the fears we had too many hospitalised, more than 1,000 respirators were provided for corona patients who were feared to come. Of course, the maximum was only about 130, but 1,000 respirator seats had been provided. Now we are shutting down society because we fear that the health care system will collapse because there are 35 corona patients in the respirator. It is quite crazy that we have such a fragile health service, even if the government was prepared for new varieties of corona. What did they do? We did nothing, we did nothing, and we are now being forced, it is claimed, to shut down society because health care cannot take more than 35 respirator patients with corona. I mean, it's really so bad a job, it's just... it's just... it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... For these reasons, we cannot vote in favour of this budget law. It is a Finance Act that just tells people that you need billions, because then you solve the challenges of society, but in reality the Finance Act does not address the challenges that are out there in reality, and that is why we will not vote for the adoption of the Finance Act, so we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222153812	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's Brian Bressendorff, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222153814	Thanks for the speech. I think the rapporteur has rather misunderstood this point by simply managing and wanting the status quo when we have a government that has made the greatest improvement in the Danish welfare society in my lifetime, namely with Arnepensionen. And that's exactly what I'd like to ask you a few questions about. Because at the first reading of this Finance Act, the rapporteur said that 'and I would like to read out: first of all, extends the rights to live on other people's money and removes the obligation to support oneself away, most recently with Arnepensionen. Those are the words that fell. I would like to know whether the rapporteur really believes that people who have been over 40 years on the Danish labour market have worked hard since they were teenagers, have paid taxes over all the years and done their duty, really withdraw from other people's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222153910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222153911	First, in Denmark we have public expenditure of over 1,100 billion. kr. Then the assertion by the questioner is that it is spending 3.3 billion. kr. more on an Arnepension for a select group of people, is simply a huge reform and a re-orientation of the Danish welfare society, i.e. because in a budget of over 1 100 billion. kr. an additional cost item of 3.3 billion. kr. You have to go further into the country with something like this. Next, if for 42 years you have worked most of your part-time work during the age of 61, down to 18 hours a week, you have received with one hundred percent assurance more benefits from the public sector during your life than you have paid from taxes during your life. That's what Arnepensionen is entitled to. You can be on parttime work down to 18 hours a week for all 42 years and still be entitled to Arnepensionen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154017	Brian Bressendorff, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154019	With the logic put forward by the rapporteur, I would also like to understand that it applies to all people who receive something from the public sector, whether it is free education, whether it is they who get the help of a midwife when there is a small baby to be delivered, whether it is when roads and bridges are built, so that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen can drive into the castle and sit. It's kind of all the parts that shouldn't somehow be there, there's somehow an extension of this spending other people's money. Is this really how the rapporteur sees our welfare society, in other words, that we are using other people's money?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154103	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154103-2	No, it's not. But that is because the questioner asked: having worked a long life and paid taxes in a long life, do you not have the right to get some of that money without it being other people's money? And to that there is only to say that the money you get at the time is not someone you earn. They're some you get from some other people. And if during your life you have been part-time down to 18 hours a week for 42 years, then with a hundred percent certainty you have paid no more to the public than you have received from the public. On the contrary, they have received throughout their lives, and now they have to receive again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154138	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154139	Since there was a new majority in June 2019, we have had to clean up after the bourgeois majority that was before. We have seen how the bourgeois parties conducted a policy which meant that tax reliefs for 27 billion were agreed. kr. Twenty-two billion. DKK, this will cost a year while the welfare was underfunded. One of the things that was underfunded was that there were only temporary appropriations for the police and temporary appropriations for our tax administration, and what has happened since the June 2019 elections is that now, since then, we have made a lasting increase in the tax administration's budget of 3 billion. kr. In fact, it is more than twice as a whole of what the government was proposing to be the negotiating reserve in this year's Finance Act. It's a very large amount of money. How does the Liberal Alliance actually feel about pursuing such an irresponsible policy of spending money on tax cuts, while leaving the bill to other parties to ensure that the basic pillars on which our society stands in Denmark are financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154249	But that's not how it's been. During the years of the VLAK government, of which we were a part, a sustainable fiscal policy was pursued, and that is to say, it was on the track that a broad majority in the Folketing supports, where we are striving for balance in the structural balance of the public sector, as does this government. It was also the case under the VLAK administration, so I do not really understand Mr. Rune Lund's question. It seems like Mr. Knox... Rune Lund has invented her own calculation methods.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154327	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154329	No, I just note that between 2015 and 2019 we were willing to set aside an amount of EUR 22 billion. kr., in permanent tax reliefs, permanent expenses, while when it came to financing our police and when it came to financing our tax administration, and in fact also funding our criminal services, the only thing that would be helped was to make temporary appropriations. And then I just ask: why is it that we are prepared to make permanent expenditure on tax relief, which is too much to benefit the richest, while temporary funding is only given to the basic pillars of society and which means that we now have to pick up the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154410	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154412	There is nothing in the way we drive Danish society that is permanent. Sir. Rune Lund is welcome to make the tax cuts temporary by proposing their abolition and if Mr. Rune Lund can obtain a majority for it in the Folketing, they become tax relief temporary. So I don't even understand this distinction between whether you put it on as a permanent expense or a lasting relief, as we did with so many other things, or whether you finance it for the next year or for the next two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154445	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154445-2	Thank you. I owe you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen an apology. I think it's been six months or three quarters of a year since we had a discussion on labour supply, where I said that our effects on the supply of work in our 2030 plan are significantly greater than that of the Liberal Alliance. It was vertically wrong. We can't match the Liberal Alliance at all. So let it be said here, and then the entrance to my question, namely: in the negotiations on Denmark we may have more of a common interest in seeing how far we can draw the government in terms of increasing the ambition of a positive effect on structural labour supply. But we also know that we are not achieving our objective or the objective of the Liberal Alliance. You'll have to have a good imagination to imagine that. So where is LA gonna make a cut here? Is it all or nothing, or is the party prepared to go in so constructively that we may be able to push the government together into something that will a little more than what is on the table?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154600	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154601	No, we believe that more Danes are going to work, and if there is a proposal on the table that says that it is 1,000 more who are going to work, by a method that we like, then we will vote in favour of it. If it's 10,000 as the government proposes, we'll vote for it. We have some challenges with what the government wants to spend the savings on. Well, we don't like making a saving on graduation money. We want to save on graduation money, but we do not want to save on graduation money and then spend the money on something else that we think is completely crazy, and we think it is quite crazy, for example, to raise the ordinary daily allowance by 5,000 DKK. for the first 3 months. There are also some other things in the government's proposal that are not our policy. So that's where we are. We are happy to do anything that is good for Denmark, but if you use the saving to do something else that is just as bad as what you save, then we are in the same way, we think.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154658	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154659	I agree with that, and I also agree that there are a number of elements in the proposal that cannot be called bourgeois politics, but what if one then peels off a bit of it, as I also asked Mr. Rasmus Jarlov about? If, for example, we are going to do something like this... We must have more foreign labour, and if we are to have the government's support parties to back up the fact that it must be easier to get here to work, it might well be that we should say: okay, then we agree that we strengthen the trade union movement. Is it even an edible model for the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154740	We try in such agreements, where there are sometimes both bad and cinnamon, to assess whether the cinnamon fills more than the shit, and then we can join in. So that would depend specifically on what the agreement says. For example: The proposal made by the government to close down such services as Wolt, which has a more flexible recruitment model than we traditionally know in the trade union-led part of the labour market, seems to us to be extremely problematic, and that is why we will find it very difficult to participate in an agreement that closes down this more flexible way of hiring.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154812	Then it's mr. Alexander Grandt, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154813	It is, of course, quite extraordinary to criticise the government for not providing labour when we all know that we are in historically high employment, never seen higher in this country. But enough about it. I would like to ask the rapporteur about these 700,000, which is also a rather puffed-up figure, for example. is on early retirement, etc. So if we make the group even smaller, for example. Speaking of these 50,000 young people without training, without employment, does the rapporteur not recognise the need for measures other than purely economic measures to get this group to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154858	Yes. A better primary school to take care of such young people, better guidance of such young people, more encouragement of their parents to be in work so that they can get rid of them, many things can contribute, but what very much also contributes to the lives of these young people is that they must have a feeling that they have a significantly better life if they embark on a working road than if they embark on a cash service route. And it's also about economics.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154941	Alexander Grandt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222154941-2	Then I am surprised that the Liberal Alliance is no longer interested in making second-generation reforms, because we are facing the challenge that, if we are to bring the last of them along, we cannot continue in the direction that the Liberal Alliance has led and has wanted Denmark further along, which is just to lower taxes and lower transfer income and to push these people further financially. Why is it not that the Liberal Alliance can get to grips with the fight for second-generation reforms, which could actually take these people into the labour market, into education?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155017	However, what the government has called second-generation reforms, we would also like to work on. We are just not in favour of saying: Well, we do not want to make real reforms; we only want to do second-generation reforms. For our view is that real reforms batter more than the so-called second-generation reforms that the government would rather do because they do not really hurt anyone. What doesn't really hurt anyone sometimes doesn't really good in Danish society either, not because it has to hurt, but because the prerequisite for doing something that moves can well be that you mess with some acquired rights that people don't want to get rid of.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155057	Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155058	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which in many ways signaled commitment and direction that is always good. Then I would like to ask questions about the relationship of the Liberal Alliance with the compensation schemes that have been quite central to the recovery that has taken place since we were cut off by the corona. The aid packages, not least the wage compensation scheme, have been crucial in limiting economic setbacks and thus helping to support the strong economy we are facing on top of the corona. The Ministry of Finance, the Economic Council and the National Bank have concluded that this is how they have worked. In this light, I would like to ask: does the rapporteur accept that the compensation schemes have had that effect? And then it hasn't been a mistake that the Liberal Alliance doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155207	Well, the Liberal Alliance has been involved in voting compensation schemes throughout most of the corona months. Recently, we have become somewhat more sceptical about whether to continue this effort, but in the months when there were hard closures of Denmark, we have considered it not as compensation schemes, but more as compensations for professions that had been appointed to be those who should bear the bulk of the responsibility for reducing the activity in society. We have voted in favour of them because we think it was fair. We recognise that this should be done in those situations and I believe that the questioner has a wrong view of what the Liberal Alliance has voted for and voted against in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155252	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155254	I just have the experience that the Liberal Alliance negotiator left the negotiations on the compensation arrangements quite early and did not participate in bringing them together. Nor was the Liberal Alliance to be found when they were to be carried out in the votes here at Christiansborg. So that's basically just what I'm asking: Does the Liberal Alliance regret its backward shape in terms of making the strong net under what hit an entire society, especially the business community, by not wanting to join?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155332	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155333	For most of the hard corona periods, we have supported these compensation schemes, which we consider to be compensation schemes. We have recently stopped supporting further, because we do not think it is a viable path to go at this time, when corona does not fill as much in Danish society; there are not so many admissions, and the shutdowns there are are not as hard as they were before. However, when we had severe decommissioning of Denmark, the Liberal Alliance supported compensation schemes and voted in favour of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155407	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155409	Thank you. I would actually have asked what the Liberal Alliance thinks about the new opportunity for young people to have free dental care, but I can see in the paper that it is quite unnecessary to have such arrangements because the young people drink too many beers and so they can afford to pay for themselves. This is quite a sloppy attitude towards young people, but the Liberal Alliance has to do so. I'd like to comment on this free pension. Now people have to be eaten off with a folk pension if they go on early retirement before because they are worn out. I would like to remind the rapporteur of one thing. We have a class of low-wage people who do hard work and important social work, who have never received education or received very little education and who live less time than both the rapporteur and I will come to because we have had a little less hard work than we might have had before, but I do not know what the rapporteur has done before. People who have been subjected to the beating injustice now have to eat off with a folk pension allowance for a few more years. That is quite, quite unfair. First, you have to have inequality in work after inequality in education and then then inequality in old age.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155526	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl! Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155526-2	What we are proposing is that, after 40 years in the labour market, you can have a savings of DKr 600 000. After all, it provides an opportunity for five years to be paid out 10,000 kroner, which is not taxed, per month. Now I don't have a built-in calculator in my head with draw percentages etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155557	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155557-2	But let us try to sit down and take a calculation, because I know what an ordinary worker saves in retirement on account of contractual pensions, which are savings-free when they are earned and then have to be paid out on a regular basis. This is a much better result than this, and that is why I am so indignant that these people have to live in inequality from birth to death and they even die up to 10 years before the rapporteur and I. It's quite, quite obscene to the class that carries this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155632	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155632-2	In the absence of Mr. Christian Juhl's internal calculator is simply screwed up the rhetorical volume that is used in abuse, etc. Taxed I actually think that the 10,000 untaxed crowns are of a higher value than the 13,000 taxed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155658	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222155726	Thank you, President. The alternative is included in the financial law of the year, and so are the Christian Democrats. The support parties sometimes forget to mention this, even when they talk about ideas that we were the first to mention in the alternative. This is true, for example. marine natural parks, as the Alternative already mentioned in the Finance Act last year. In the alternative, however, we are happy when other parties take over our ideas and we can rely on the old saying that you can get through with anything if you don't care who gets credit for it. However, that has been said with a great Christmas smile, because we do not forget the support parties or the government either. We would like to thank both the government and the support parties for their work in making the Finance Act a political agreement that realises some of the things that we have been discussing for a long time at Christiansborg, not least that children can go to school one year later and free dentist for the 18-21 year olds. And we would also like to thank the support parties for their major contribution to the green part of the Financial Act. Of course, when you are part of a financial law, it is about figures and amounts, the economy, the state budget and balance sheets, and the debate today, of course, has also been about that. But it's also about the reality behind those numbers. It is about realising plans, it is about realising dreams, it is about starting a whole lot of work around the ministries to make the initiatives of the Finance Act a reality. We look forward to that in the Alternative. We look forward to the negotiations in the Ministry of the Environment to make Øresund and Lillebælt marine natural parks. Because even if we are talking about marine natural parks, as if it is something we all know what is, they do not actually exist yet; we must first define them. We need to find out what it takes to protect a marine nature in the Øresund, where there is both a unique untouched nature and where nearly 50,000 ships sail through each year. So the Finance Act, which we are discussing in this Chamber today, is going to take us down below sea level in the Øresund, where we have a unique marine nature because there has been a ban on bottom trawling for almost 100 years because of shipping. The Finance Act will take us down to Øresund's widespread eelgrass belts, which are the most food-rich areas in our inland waters and upbringing area for lots of fish fry, not least cod, which swims on into our other waters. The Finance Act will take us down to the seals, to large flocks of guinea pigs, our small whales, and to the flocks of tuna that have begun to visit Denmark in the summer. Now we need to find out how best to take care of the unique nature, and not least how we give it the opportunity to develop and realise its potential, not only in the Sound, but also in Lillebælt. I'm really looking forward to that in the Ministry of the Environment. I am also looking forward to putting the two small fingerprints of the Alternative on the Finance Act, namely 20 million. kr. for a pool for certification of CO 2 DKK. to support local energy communities. Both ideas also testify to the alternative's belief that small businesses and local communities can play a much greater role in the green transition, if we have the will to help them just a little on the way. With the 20 million. kr. for the certification of CO2 inventory and climate labelling, we will allow small and medium-sized enterprises to document and communicate their climate-friendly and climate-neutral products, so we consumers know how much CO2 Normally such labelling of a green product can easily run up to several DKK 100,000, which can be a big and regrettable obstacle for a small company, which otherwise has a competitive and more climate- and environmentally friendly product. In particular, the public market is increasingly awarding contracts on the basis of whether the supplier has a particular label or certification. Now the pool has to be negotiated with the rapporteurs in the right ministry, don't you think it's gonna be the Ministry of Business? The second pool of 20 million. kr. In our opinion, local energy communities have the potential to launch a wave of local change initiatives or to reinforce a wave, one might say, as there are already good projects going on in many places around Denmark. Specifically, the pool must support citizens' involvement in the development of renewable energy locally. The pool must provide new air for the establishment of wind turbines, solar installations, heat pumps, etc. in communities all over the country. A visit a few years ago to the Nordic People's Centre for Renewable Energy in Thy, in my former constituency, a centre that fortunately received support for the continuation, also in this year's Finance Act, led me to understand the importance of local ownership of local energy projects, for example. folk mills. The example back then was the popular windmills in Hvide Sande. The mills were large, and they nodded as much as other mills, and they saw as much as other mills, and they might have encountered great resistance in other contexts, but that was not there. For it's a little easier to accept the sight and sound of mills when earnings go to your own local area when earnings help to ensure that there is still a school and a nursing home and a use in a potentially remote region. Many mills in Denmark are owned by foreign companies, some of them barely pay taxes in Denmark. In the alternative, we are in favour of revenue from energy projects going to the people who live where the energy projects exist. That is why we believe that the money from the 20 million. kr. in this pool should go to activities run by local communities in cooperation with advisors and potential suppliers. These must be transparent solutions where the economy is shared according to good, well-tested cooperative principles, and the pool can be handled by everything from the state administration to a consortium of civil society organisations that establish an independent and competent structure to handle funds. We have to negotiate all this in the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply, and I am very much looking forward to it. Let me just say one thing: of course it is to thank both the government, the support parties and the Christian Democrats for supporting these pools, because it is clear that all the parties behind the Finance Act have nodded to them, just as all the parties have nodded to all the other things in the Finance Act. Finally, I would like to draw attention to what we call love treasure. I hope that my colleagues have noticed that there has been a small group of slightly wet protesters in the Parliamentary Farm today because they feel a little forgotten. It is the activists of the TAAGF, the Total Abolition of Mutual Parental Duty, who had expected a small Christmas present, namely the abolition of what we call the love tax. The tax on love is when pensioners and early-retirement pensioners are paid because their partner or spouse has a job. Now I know that the funding does not come from the Finance Act; the abolition of the love tax for pensioners and early retirementists is part of the government's Denmark can more I.D.E., where the funding should come from the taxation of share gains. In the alternative, we approved the proposal and the funding, and we had expected the agreement to be in place before Christmas, but apparently it has stalled somewhat. So I just want to remind the government that we have to finish this work so that Christmas can also sink over the hundreds of thousands of people who are affected by love treasure and, if not now, at least on the edge. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222160612	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222160618	Thank you, and thank you, to the rapporteur for a passionate speech and for the good measures that the Alternative has taken in the Finance Act. In Free Greens, like the Green Student Movement, the Grandparents' Climate Action, etc., we would have liked to have seen more focus on reducing CO2 We would also have liked to see a greater focus on economic inequality, so in Denmark we did not have 40,000 children living below the poverty line, or an increasing number of families seeking Christmas help and Christmas packages, and on an anti-racist action plan. But, of course, when you're in a debate like this, there are things you don't get. So my question is actually: what would the alternative have liked to have done if there could have been a majority in favour of it? What was the greatest wish that was not included in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222160713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222160714	I think that the idea that comes from the Free Greens of an anti-racist action plan would have been very, very good to have got along with, but in fact some of the other proposals that the questioner makes are also some of the things that are very, very high on our wish list.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222160732	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222160733	Thank you. I'm glad to hear that, of course. Something else that I think is really sad in this financial law is climate aid to developing countries. 100 million has been set. kr. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. kr. off. We are simply going away from development aid and we are actually using half of that development aid at home. That is, of course, very unsatisfactory to the Greens. Does the alternative agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222160807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222160808	I would say that the questioner is capable of stepping on the sore toes. I'm gonna hurt my feet. I'm gonna hurt my feet. It is clear, of course, that these are also some things we have been thinking about. Now that we've gone along with it, it's because in our opinion, the positives outweighed the negatives in this round. However, we are about to look really, really strongly at climate support, and we are not going to turn foreign aid into climate support. We must have a very high level of climate support for developing countries, and that would be a huge help for self-help, because we are also risking an incredible number of climate refugees fleeing from both drought and floods.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222160843	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222160846	I'd like to say that's something that I think hurts a lot of people here. On the whole, foreign aid and the way we manage it and the way we move around the boxes are a huge problem that we have to deal with. And I hope that more and more parties will help address that issue. But I wanted to ask you something else. Because I must also admit that I am completely immigrated to this marine nature park thing, and I really don't know what's in it. Now Mr. Torsten Gejl was so excited about it, and it sounds great too. But that depends on what criteria are being laid down. What criteria do the alternative envisage for such parks?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222160946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222160947	Thank you for that question. That is indeed relevant, because that is what we are about to discuss. They don't exist, as I said. We don't have any marine natural parks in advance that we can look at. One of the things that is incredibly important to us is that it is a little the same as the national parks on land. So that we get real protection for the unique and wild nature and that nature in those parks will develop on nature's own terms. This means that biodiversity is absolutely paramount. And it takes a whole lot of grip, a whole lot of protective grip. The reason we think it is important that the unique nature is recreated as originally possible is that we actually have less than 1%. Wild nature back in our waters.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222161041	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222161042	But can you? I am simply asking because I am completely blank in this respect. What's it gonna take? Can't anyone sail over? As I said, I would be very pleased to be informed of the detailed criteria for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222161106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222161107	We can't stop the 50,000 ships that sail through the Sound. The first time I proposed it in the Ministry of Finance, their departmental manager got pale and said some things to the Minister, and it was something like that if we do this too powerfully, we will have a huge major political conflict where there are a number of countries that are a little afraid that we can stop thousands of boats carrying their goods. We can't. We must do this by creating some zones where there is complete freedom of development for the unique nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222161147	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no more brief comments. I would ask the rapporteur to spritz off after him. Thank you. And then I would like to say that the next rapporteur is Mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222161209	Thank you. There is such a lot of discussion at this time that there was also a small debate on television the other day about what the middle of Danish politics really is for a size. Because if it's just a position, it's not worth much, because it's something like that that can move, and if you just define it as a position, you run the risk of others defining where you stand. That is why it is quite important to put some substance into a discussion of what the centre really is. I think I was regarded in the 00s as at least a little to the right of the middle of the immigration policy, and today I feel very far to the left and have in any case considerably more reference frameworks with what is going on on on the left than what I have to admit, which has happened on large sections of bourgeois and once so liberal Denmark. So that's how the positions can move. When I mention it, it is because the balancing point is crucial for us when we define ourselves as the middle party. In other words, when we argue that more foreign labour is going to Denmark, that the limit must be reduced, we know that it can bring challenges elsewhere, and we say at the same time that we must strengthen the trade union movement. We have put that in our 2030 plan. When we say that we must eliminate all the poverty benefits, integration benefits, everything that makes children and families poorer on the edge of the labour market and outside the labour market, which we think is so unfair, then, on the other hand, we make demands for the benefits to which everyone should be entitled if they meet objective criteria. When we say that the tax is going down quite drastically at work • we want to move the top tax limit to 800,000 DKK and we want to increase the employment allowance from, I think it is 10.6 per cent. or something like that today, up to 26.6%. We are also saying that we want the regions to be strengthened by having the tax credit returned to the one that I myself helped to remove at the time, and that was a capital roar; that is something I recognise blankly. In fact, the Social Democrats once thought that it was a capital roar, and today it is a little difficult to resonate with the view that it was a bad idea, but I think it was a bad idea. And I think that the negotiations on the agreement with the nurses showed this because it is not really Anders Kühnau who is negotiating with the nurses because his hands are tied, and it creates an inflexible situation and thus also a vulnerability, not only economically, but towards the entire Danish labour market model in the public labour market. This is how we constantly try to balance what we do. We know that when we propose something in one place, there may be consequences elsewhere that need to be taken into account, and we need to have an unideological view of that. Balance! We've agreed to the invitation to be part of this Finance Act because we think it has an excellent balance. That is not exactly the balance we would like. That is the way it is in a democracy, and that is the way it is, and we must live with it. When you have a mandate, you cannot negotiate as if you had 20 or 25 mandates. This is the reality of the political iron industry, and we must recognize that. Because if you don't admit it, you don't get a seat at the table. However, we are pleased that we are part of this financial agreement. We are pleased with every degree of influence we can have as long as we think the direction is right and the social profile also holds. After all, we know that this is not a financial law which contains the major reforms nor the reforms that we would like to see. This cannot be the case, because the Minister for Finance announced that he would come up with an accounting bill, and he did so. In view of the situation, we also have to see that we are in a situation in which it may not be the major experiments that lie ahead, but where there is a need to step on the brakes we think that a balanced financial law has come out of it. The small amount of money that has been available has actually been well spent or well spent. We are very pleased with the initiative for women who are giving birth. We believe that this is a strengthening of families. This has been needed for a long time. We are pleased with the green investments. We are also pleased with the health billionaire that has come, i.e. the emergency aid that has come to the hospitals. We would say, however, that this does not solve the structural challenges that I, among others, am facing. mentioned, in relation to whether or not we should consider another financial structure of our health care, but we know that this is not exactly what is being negotiated in a financial law. It has to go into another negotiating room. So we think there are very good initiatives, and of the small things that we have a special ownership of, I would like to mention the green gardens in Copenhagen, so that we can have some more green breathing holes in the residential areas of Copenhagen. We have also been allowed to get money both for AroS and for the Old Town in Aarhus, which are important cultural institutions. We have received funding for a strategy that is being run between three municipalities in East Jutland and that goes on to go from having 1,000 music school pupils to 10,000 children in contact with the music schools, among other things. in Viborg, what we think is an important and a real vision and mission. Children cannot get too much music lessons, and too few people are in touch with music schools today. This is also one thing that could be dealt with a little more one day, but it is certainly something for which we welcome the fact that we have included in the Finance Act as our fingerprints, and for which we thank you. We thank the government for being invited inside, but also thanks to the support parties for being able to join us. That may sound a little weird, 'cause you have to, if you go with it, and something like that. But I myself have been negotiating finance law in the past, and I have seen the juves of parties that did not want other parties to join. So it is not self-evident that the door is open, especially when you are not a support party for the government. So we welcome that. Having said that, however, I should also like to say that we believe that the challenge of energy prices, and hence our own electricity taxes, is quite serious. We need to address them for the sake of our businesses, for the sake of the people and for the sake of support for the green transition. I've told you before, that's what yellow vests are made of. We've seen that abroad. This is a serious challenge that needs to be addressed, and it is also a very serious challenge that we do not have enough manpower to deliver the hands that are needed in our welfare societies in public services and hands enough for private companies. We look forward to these negotiations, hopefully, to getting some ambitious and good and solid results out of, and very, very much, with a broad majority in the Folketing, so that you know what you have to comply with in the coming years. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162222	Thank you. The first brief remark is to Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162226	Thank you. Now I have heard the rapporteur, sir. Jens Rohde, on several occasions today talk about the abolition of poverty reforms. This is something we have fought a great deal for, not least in the last session of Parliament, where the ceiling on cash benefits came into play and so on. etc. We have worked for better conditions during the early retirement reform and the flex-job reform, yes, in general, the integration benefit mentioned by the rapporteur. So it is really, really nice to have one more party paying attention to the fact that we should not become too poor, that it should not be the case that everyone else is constantly getting richer and that, therefore, there is always someone who has to become poorer at the same time. It's a political choice. That won't be necessary. Now the rapporteur is talking about abolishing some of these benefits, in exchange for meeting objective criteria. There I am curious: what is the rapporteur thinking there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162327	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162328	Yeah, you gotta negotiate on that. But in the first place it is one of the things that is in Denmark that can be more than just immigrants and people of foreign origin, who are so busy chasing, but who must also apply to all of us that you have: that is, right and duty belong together, and you do a job if you can take care of the money you receive.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162359	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162400	What is the rapporteur's view of the fact that in more and more countries there are attempts being made to provide cash aid without counter-claims, where there is a group exempted from the compulsory employment system, and a group which is still away is a control group that remains there and where the group that is exempted from sanctions each time finds as much work or marginally more work than the group that is still subjected to sanctions and thrives better and has better health? What does the rapporteur think about this type of experiment? Could it really be that we should base some more of our efforts on trust?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162437	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162438	I think I might be a little too reactionary to give a positive answer, or at least the answer that Mr. Torsten Gejl is looking for, in this respect. I think at once in trouble, and that is what we sometimes have to try not to do. But for the time being, I'm not that super... No, I would say that I will be worried about the consequences of it, but you have to try to access such thoughts with an open mind without slamming the door in immediately, so I'd like to put a little more on that in my head.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162517	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162521	Thank you. And thank you for your speech to Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde, and thank you for one, I think, constructive cooperation around this year's Finance Act. I think it makes sense that we can make a broad financial law and a financial law where we are able to gather parties on both sides of the middle to make what I think is both a responsible financial law and also a financial law that takes some initiatives that move Denmark in a better place. So thank you for your cooperation. The rapporteur devoted time to the energy crisis, both in connection with the speech but also in connection with Mr Seligman's speech. Jens Rohde asked you questions earlier. Would the rapporteur like to reflect a little on what solutions the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party themselves see in relation to the issue he raises here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162605	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162606	As I understand it, there is an extra revenue for the state qua the high energy prices and CO 2 DKK. We pay fewer subsidies, because that is our structure. We pay fewer subsidies to wind turbine owners and biogas owners when energy prices are high. It is actually a pretty good system, you might say, that has been set up there, and we get more money into CO2 when we do that, we in the KD believe that we should send that money back to our companies and to our consumers, to the Danes in the form of lower taxes. The Social Democratic Party itself has mentioned the idea, because it is already in Denmark that more can be done than only 400 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162712	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162713	But it is not because, as such, I disagree with the direction of action in relation to what is being proposed. I am just concerned that we are abandoning the tradition of structural budgeting; that is, I am afraid that what we are approaching here will mean that when revenue goes up, we will create new expenditure. It may be reasonable expenditure, but it does mean that if fluctuations mean that we have less expenditure, then we must also be ready to cut back, and that is the part that I fear there is less support for in the Folketing. That is why we are making a structural estimate and budgeting it. Is the rapporteur worried about leaving the way of budgeting?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162754	In fact, I have the basic point of view that we should be very careful about pursuing short-term policies because, in the long run, it creates structural problems. After all, I think that this is a good example, and we can agree or disagree on that. So you have to be very careful about that. But we are faced with totally abnormal increases in energy prices, which cause so many people so much trouble that somehow we are going to address it no matter what. And I know that SF has also tried to address it in the budget negotiations. I just don't think, no matter how we turn and turn it, that we get around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162832	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162835	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Jens Rohde has, of course, taken a great interest in energy prices earlier today, and last week we actually had a consultation in the Committee on Finance on rising energy prices, and that is what leads me to the question. Because that is not because it is reflected so much in the government's financial law agreement, and the Christian Democrats are also part of that agreement, but have some strings been laid on the fact that we will come back to discuss it here? Because this potentially has quite a major impact on some of the people who, for example, have been involved. is dependent on gas, and in some of the other examples that we have seen, and indeed Jens Rohde has already mentioned this in some of the questions. After all, it is those with the lowest incomes who are most affected. I'm afraid that's the way it is. So it was just more to hear if you can expect something to come as a follow-up to the Finance Act, which, of course, does not give much priority to this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222162930	After all, you have to ask the government that, but I hope that we can share the pressure because we do not get around it. Yes, it is always the case that taxes turn the heavy end down, and from that point of view one may wonder a little bit about the government being a little handy. But on the other hand, I understand and know very well, and Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Poulsen on his excellent report. But I am just saying that we all have to deal with this, and I also hope that the Left and Conservatives and other bourgeois-liberal parties will help to address the issue of finding solutions. And in our optics, the obvious solution is to lower the world's highest power charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163027	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163029	It was more of a comment. Now it is not often that I can have the opportunity to praise Jens Rohde, so I would like to take this opportunity to do so. It's almost Christmas and much more. But whatever it is, I think it is a relevant discussion, because it has filled too little in relation to what kind of economic battle there is. So it is actually a commitment that we are also engaged in discussing it here, and so it was also a sincere attempt to ask about the negotiations that we have not been part of, but of which the Christian Democrats have been part, i.e. whether there is something that lies for further discussion in the future. Because I think we have to deal with that with the energy prices that are now affecting us in the way they are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163106	Thank you, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen. I can only say that I also know that Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen has tried to address this and that it is essential that we all deal with it, including the government, and there the government has already left a trail. Because I think it's 400 million. kr. And then, of course, we can continue along that path during the negotiations. At least there's a door open there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163144	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163147	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I think it is really nice that we have a rapporteur in the Danish Parliament who can also hear Camus and Sartre from each other and a lot of formation etc. I think it's really, really nice. What I wanted to ask the rapporteur in this respect, and a little more secular or down on the ground, is precisely in relation to the green taxes. 'Cause I'm gonna share sir. Jens Rohde's concern about tax increases. They are violent, and we do not know what is going to happen in the coming months, and what is going on in Russia and elsewhere is also unpredictable, and this really only shows that we in the European Community will have to solve our problems together, because it is rubbing off on all of us when there are problems. In relation to the green check: is it not a panacea to maintain the balance that Mr. Jens Rohde also talks about just compensating groups when it bons out too much?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163258	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163259	Well, maybe it is. However, the green cheque is a symptom treatment and we would like to see another way of doing taxation, the tax system, be looked at. As it is now, it is, of course, an instrument for holding hands under those who are hit hardest. But if this is a particularly good solution, I do have a little doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163335	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163336	Thank you. After all, the Yellow West in France was both a response to rising petrol and energy prices, but also a frustration at the class policy that the President had led to make some rather biased changes to the tax and wealth system, and the two elements together created the perfect storm. And that is also one of the things that we in the SF are concerned about, that is, if we do not show that the green transition is also socially fair and then we can have different political definitions of what it is then not getting people with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163412	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163413	I very, very much agree with that. If we want to achieve our objectives with the green transition, and there is a broad consensus that we want to do so, then it is important that we understand that it is about bringing people along and not against us. That's why you have to be careful about making the perfect storm, and you have to keep thinking in balance, balance, balance. That is what defines it for us as the middle of politics, and we are endeavouring to do so. I cannot promise that we will always hit it exactly every time, but it is an effort and an objective that we have every time we come up with a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163459	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Kim Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163502	Thank you. I'm glad to hear that, sir. Jens Rohde raises energy prices, because that is one of the major problems, and that is indeed one of the things I pointed out earlier to the government, which is why it does not say anything about it. This is a major problem, even if you try to make it temporary and into something that the market itself must find out if I understand it correctly. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur is that a note has now been made showing that over the next year the government will save 2.7 billion. kr. in RE support due to rising energy prices. That money could have been used in the Finance Act. Does the rapporteur not think that there are good ways to spend 2.7 billion? kr. In the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163559	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163601	Yes, yes, but I have also said that if it were for us, they were rolled back to the citizens in lower energy taxes. By the way, I'm gonna sign up to Mr. Knox. Kim Valentin to address this too, and I know that he has had the Minister in consultation with the Finance Committee, and we have also been sitting with the climate minister and discussing these issues at European Committee meetings. So everyone is aware that we are facing something that we are going to relate to. Unfortunately, I do not think that those rising energy prices are anything transitory. We can hope so, but I don't think that's it. That is also why we are constantly saying that we need to be more technology-neutral in our approach to the green transition. And I know that you hit a little hard on the left, in particular, when you say that we will have to discuss nuclear power if we want to have long-lasting and clean solutions to our challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163708	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163710	I can only agree with the rapporteur on this. Perhaps what you might expect is for this money to be saved for a green tax reform during the first quarter, because then you will have funding for it. But how serious does the rapporteur think it is if it is not temporary? So that's 10,000 kroner. for a two - child help recipient, and for an ordinary family with two children using gas, it is DKK 30,000. a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163746	Let me put it this way: I think it is so serious that we cannot afford not to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163758	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Christian Democrats. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, who is allowed to come up here once we have done the necessary despriting. I don't think much better can be done. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222163822	Thank you for the floor. Right now, I am very aware that I am standing between us and a vote and, above all, our Christmas holidays, so I will be very brief. I have just returned from Greenland, and this year I hope I can celebrate white Christmas. But it will be in Denmark with my children studying here, because at home in Greenland all the snow is more or less melted, at least in Nuuk, where we have had plus degrees. I am speaking here today because the Finance Act is one of the most important laws of the year, which also concerns Greenland. A new practice has come a few years ago, and it is called the North Atlantic pool. It's 80 million. DKK, which is distributed between Greenland and the Faroe Islands. We have been given money for a lot of good projects, not least for children's houses, to intensify efforts to combat sexual abuse and to a new grief line for the survivors of suicide, which has been priorities for IA. When I take the floor here today, it is to point out that IA finds it problematic that more and more operating areas that are not being resolved by the government are being referred to this North Atlantic pool. With the 32 areas for which we here in the Danish Parliament have a responsibility in Greenland, it is becoming increasingly watered down what we can find funding for, also by very concrete and low-practical things that need to be resolved. Therefore, it is important that the North Atlantic pool becomes this good action that has come, but that it does not become a limiting factor in solving the 32 areas in Greenland. A concrete example is the growing waiting list for the asylums in Greenland, which was not resolved with the criminal justice settlement and which will not be resolved by the North Atlantic pool either. With the increasing awareness that Greenland is experiencing internationally, we are also experiencing an increase in tasks. We see that, for example. in the field of defence, and therefore a clear call must also be made for the North Atlantic Pool not to solve everything, and IA reserves the wish for equal participation in relevant negotiations and conciliation, also in addition to the financial law negotiations. In the few words, IA will vote in favour of the draft budget and the amendments tabled by the government. We thank you for the cooperation in the year that has gone by, both to the government and to the support parties, but also to all other parties here in the Folketing, and then we all wish you a very merry Christmas • juullimi pilluaritsi. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164056	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164059	I fully understand Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's concerns about this: firstly, the joy, the fact that we have the North Atlantic pool, and then the risk that it will be hollowed out by taking over something else. But what is the answer to that? How does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen think we are going to deal with this in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164120	Thank you for the question. First of all, we have seen more and more things on, for example. the social area or in other areas, which the government actually also refers to this North Atlantic pool and says: Well, that's where you can find the money yourself. But it is in areas where we also have some very concrete things that we want to lift politically and help to highlight. And there it just becomes a limiting factor. So participating in other settlements and being able to sit with and represent Greenland and being able to point out solutions and not only challenges, we would really like to play in with, and we have done so from day one.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164156	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164157	Then I think I have to add: Juullimi Pilluaritsi.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164203	Qujanaq ilillu.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164210	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164214	The North Atlantic pool mentioned the rapporteur, and that sounds unpleasant. I hope, then, that the rapporteur's participation in the negotiations was a guarantee of that. If that is not the case, and if that is not enough, then we must try to talk about how, together, in the negotiation of the various conciliations and also about the budget law, we are trying to spare those areas that have not yet been taken home. I think that is an important task. I'd like to hear about something. Now the Enhedslisten is not part of the settlement on criminal justice, among other things. because it is financed by money from culture and money from development aid. And then we do not like to rent ourselves into prisons in Kosovo either. There was nothing at all for Greenland in the criminal justice settlement? And is this a task we're gonna have to solve after that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164314	Thank you. It can be said that in reality there is also a focus which we should have both on the part of the government, but also on the part of the Danish Parliament, that we are pointing to more and more things, among other things. This also involves sexual abuse, which is, in fact, a Greenlandic responsibility. And how can we find that balance so that we can solve the social problems so that it doesn't affect justice too much? We have opened up a little bit that the borders may be a little more fluid. So that way, we've also helped to put more things into that pool ourselves. But if you do not solve the challenges in one area, it will just have a huge impact on justice. So that is actually what has been our approach to it. In relation to criminal services, both the Naala Suisut, but also the four North Atlantic mandates, have criticised the fact that these are in fact some previous measures put in by the government. So there's nothing new in what you've come up with, and it's critical.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164412	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164413	Then we have to tell the SF and the Conservatives and the Socialists that they will have to do better next time, and then we will have to see if we can save it home in other negotiations, in my opinion. By the way, I would like to thank you for your cooperation, since we are talking this way. It is that I saw an article in the newspaper that Greenland is exposed to fake news and to espionage risks. Does the rapporteur share such assertions and, if so, what is the explanation for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164444	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164445	Thank you, and thank you for your cooperation. Greenland's largest company Royal Greenland is under a hacker attack these days and has actually been for several days now. I think that is a rather overlooked story, because we do not really know who is behind it and what the motives are for it. But this can, in principle, help to slow down Greenland's economy. We see these cases where there is also a desire to put a wedge in between Greenland and Denmark, and we certainly look at this very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164516	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Could I just ask the rapporteur to spritze off? The next to speak is the Minister for Finance. I'd like him to come up here as soon as we've done what we need to do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222164544	Thank you for that and also thank you for a good debate. It must be one of the most peaceful financial debates in recent times, and it is as if while the snow is falling over Denmark, Christmas peace is also sinking over the Folketing. That's good. And, of course, it is also a financial law debate that is a little special, because the Danish economy is doing very well. We can look into the highest growth in 15 years. Twelve thousand more employees have arrived just in October. We can also see that we have the debt under control. And we can see that there is the highest employment ever. All after we have had to deal with corona for the past year and a half. Now I am a jyde, and that is why the big and too loud words lie to me a little bit distant, but I actually think that we can be quite satisfied, said in all silence, like Denmark, as a government, as a parliament. This is something that all Danes have helped to make sure becomes reality. This is something that has not come of itself, but is an expression of the fact that the whole of Denmark has taken responsibility. The individual has done so in terms of taking care of himself, but also of the citizens, in relation to the disease, and we have done so by taking a number of decisions which have had the very simple but also incredibly important purpose, namely to hold hands under Danish jobs and the Danish economy. This has all contributed to the fact that today we are in a situation where the Danish economy is a much better place than in most countries with which we compare ourselves. It can really be said very simply: the store is under control, even though we have gone through a really difficult time. At the same time, it is also important to say that we have to deal with a time of many unknowns and with great uncertainty. We do not know the full extent of the latest developments in corona disease, which we are also aware of at home, either in relation to our society in general or our economy. But so far we are looking into very strong developments, including for the economy in the coming years. We are also a small country with an open economy, and that means that even if we make all the right decisions together, we are very, very dependent on what is happening in the world around us. That is why, of course, it is also an element of uncertainty that must be part of our deliberations. For the government it has been important that, while we are holding our hands under jobs and helping our companies through, we also do so in a way that is financially responsible. And we have done so, by the way, in broad cooperation in this Parliament. I'd like to sign for that. This also means that today we are looking into a modest deficit this year followed by the surplus of the general government balance in the coming years, and thus we have the prospect of the general government gross debt in the coming years approaching the level of the pre-Corona crisis. Compared with other countries, debt is low. There is a good distance from the deficit line in the EU Stability and Growth Pact, and we have done very, very well compared to the other EU countries. That is just like the framework for today's discussion. I have also noticed that the various rapporteurs, with, indeed, what to say, varying enthusiasm, have recognised that things are actually going very well and sensibly in Denmark. Then I could understand from the Conservative rapporteur, Rasmus Jarlov, it's a little economical like taking a trip to Tivoli and getting on the veteran cars where you have some tracks they're running on. And when you're a kid, the joy is there. And I think we can all recognize the joy; and when you have children of that age, I can say that it also applies to present generations. You think you're going through, and you're going through it all, of course. It is, of course, an attempt to find some critical angle, and the cadeau for it, if it was the best one could find. But I'm just thinking one little thought. Let us now say that today we had been faced with towering unemployment, that we had torn down, that companies on stripes snapped their necks, then I am a little excited if Mr. Rasmus Jarlov would have said that the government has no responsibility for this, because it is something that has come to us from the outside. Or if you would have said: this government has failed on a, b and c when we can face such a situation. Fortunately, this is a thoughtful example, because it is not there at all. I recognise that in a small country with an open economy it is not us who control everything that affects us, of course it is not. When things are going well in the world around us, it is good for Denmark. When things go bad in the world around us, it adversely affects us. However, I believe that the great effort that the Danes have made, which government and Parliament have delivered, which the social partners have provided, by quickly entering and effectively making aid packages and, in general, stimulating the Danish economy where it was needed, has had an effect. And that is something that the Conservative People's Party can welcome, because it is also partly responsible for the fact that things have gone so well. So you shouldn't be sad that you've taken responsibility. And you shouldn't be sad that decisions actually matter. Because unlike when you sit in the Tivoli veteran cars, where, whether you turn right or left on the right, it can be the same, apart from your own perception that you have a little to say in that car, it is different when it comes to politics. Politics makes a difference. And we have chosen to invest our way out of a crisis, unlike previous governments, which have chosen a different approach, and that means that Denmark has come through the crisis strongly. And that makes us have a backlash to resist whatever may come. Then we will be here today to discuss the Finance Act and, hopefully, adopt it shortly. And I would like to start by thanking the parties that are involved in making this year's Finance Act. Both the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Christian Democrats have helped to create a responsible financial law. Last year we were in a situation where there was a need to give it gas well to get the economy going. This year, we need to take off our feet. This year is what is timely care. There has been an understanding of this, and responsibility has been taken for it. I am also pleased that it is a broad financial law across the middle, i.e. that we have both red parties and blue parties with us. I think that is very positive. It is also one of the things that, I think, helps to make it a particularly good Christmas this year. If you look at the contents, it is also strong. First, although there has been a smaller framework for new initiatives than there has normally been, it has been done sensibly. We have strengthened the conditions for our children and young people, among others. In relation to being able to go to school later, if you need it. We have strengthened teacher training. We have also done so, that you can get free dental care longer than you can today. It's just to take some examples. We have also gone in and have given a boost to the area of the elderly, in addition to the promises we have made in connection with the municipal and regional agreements, where, when there are more children and older people, under this government, unlike the previous government, we have decided that the money should go with it. We have also set aside more money in this financial law to contribute to a more dignified care for the elderly, and that is what we need. It is also a Finance Act in which we have taken some major and significant green steps, not least in relation to the fact that we can get more energy from wind to sea. We almost double our capacity with wind energy corresponding to what will be approximately 2 million households, which in this way can get green energy from the sea in the future. It's a huge decision that's been made here. Then I heard earlier in the day, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says, "Well, is that something to brag about, 'cause doesn't everyone agree? First of all, I agree that we should not boast about it, but we should be happy about it, especially now that it is Christmas. I will only be delighted if everyone agrees with that decision, but leadership also sometimes means that someone has to take it and show the way. It's not enough just to talk about things. We also have to do something, and that is what this government, together with the parties that form part of the agreement, has done, and we are also suggesting that this is, of course, something on which we would very much like to cooperate with other parties. We also have to take good care of our nature both on land, but in this finance agreement we have taken some important steps, and I think this is something that can also help make Denmark a greener and better place when it comes to our environment. Then it is no secret to anyone that, because of the corona situation, we have a health service that is under pressure. That is also the reason why, with this financial law, we are putting off an extraordinary amount of 1 billion. kr. to a Coronavinter package to get our hospital service well through the winter. We know that this does not solve all the problems, but it is a very important contribution. It is a vitamin injection to deal with some of the immediate challenges you face, and it is my impression that good agreements have been made in the regions and among our healthcare staff on the basis of the billions that enable us both to strengthen the retention, but also to increase activity for the benefit of patients and, of course, also for the benefit of employees. It has been important for us in the government, it has been important for the parties behind it, and I think it is extremely important for our health care that we do so. There is reason to welcome this, but at the same time I would also like to say that we know that there are still a great many challenges out there. With government responsibility, we also took over a situation in which for years agreements had been made with the regions, which were very, very frugal in relation to the needs there were. This has been noticed in our health care system. As a government, we, together with the parties of the Folketing, which have supported our Finance Act, have provided much more funding to the regions and, incidentally, to the municipalities. When more children arrive, when more older people arrive, the money comes with it, but we still have a big backlog to deal with. We also have a Corona situation which is of the nature that we all know and which makes it extra difficult. Now financial law is also an opportunity for parties to bring their kicks in, and I would just like to make a few comments. I'd like to start with sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, whom I think was authentic in his voice, went up and thanked for the fact that in many ways there has been good cooperation between the government and the Left here during the year that has passed. I would like to confirm that. We've made big deals with each other on a number of points. There are also areas where, unfortunately, we have not been able to reach agreement. So I'd like to sign for that approach. Then I understood Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen states that when it comes to the Finance Act, he has appointed himself an external censor and even an independent one. I think I almost broke the Rules of Procedure by looking up a loud laugh on that occasion, but it did have a contagious effect, because I could see that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen himself also began to laugh, and I actually saw this as somewhat atoning, compared to the fact that with the independent it was not quite crystal clear to anyone other than Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen himself. But that does not change the fact that it is, of course, quite fair that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen would like to pursue a different policy. I'm so sorry, sir. By the way, Troels Lund Poulsen along with Mr. Rasmus Jarlov and others feel that part of the policy they want to pursue is to abolish the Arne reform that we have been doing together with a number of parties here in the Danish Parliament, which means that people who have been on the labour market for a long time and who have been working and dragged may be allowed to retire a little earlier than otherwise. You even got from Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's side, the leader of the Conservative People's Party, and who knows what else he wants to be the leader of, has come out with comments that then you have to retire for other people's money. It is people who have worn and dragged, worked hard in Danish society, and I do not think it is right to do that characterization, but one must then explain oneself out of it at the Conservative People's Party. But what is in order is to say that, both from the Conservative and the Left, there is something here which, if we have a new government, a blue government with the two parties as a focal point, means that the Arne pension is gone. That is clear for the Danes, and you can relate to that, and I think many will have it in their back head when you get to the day when you have to cross, although it is a nice piece in the future. Then Mr. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: René Christensen in, and that is why it is also so important that, with the local and regional agreements, we should keep up with the money when there are more elderly people, and we have also set aside additional funds for the elderly in connection with this financial law. Does this mean that all problems in the area of the elderly have been resolved? No, it doesn't. There, too, we took over a situation where many municipalities have had to cut and cut for a long period of time. Now we are giving the municipalities better opportunities to cope with the challenges of elderly care, but this is something where we see in a coronatide, in particular, some major tasks ahead of us and where together we must try to find ways to deal with it as best we can, and I know that is one of the things Mr. René Christensen is busy. However, it is perhaps also important to say that we have lifted the municipal welfare of billions of kroner in recent years, and we have done so not least because we are also aware of the challenges facing the elderly. Then we should say it that way from the Liberal Alliance's point of view: you don't think it's a good bill of finance made by the government. I would just like to say that I almost think it would have been a Christmas miracle if I could have had the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, to think what we've been doing was good. It's fair enough, we look at it differently, the Liberal Alliance wants a completely different path for Danish society than the government. You want to remove Arnepensionen, and you want to take something away from some of those who have the least, and you want to give it a full throttle compared to those who have the most in Danish society, so that they can get more, and you want to turn down the Danish welfare society. It is a political vision that I do not share, but I have respect for the fact that it is the one you have, and therefore the likelihood that we will be making financial agreements with each other is probably not overwhelming either. I hope that we will then be able to make other agreements with each other, and we have done so, among other things. in the transport sector, and we are also sitting here, and I shall come back to that in a moment with negotiations on Denmark can more I.A., and I hope that we can end up doing something together. New Citizens: I have a weakness for Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, and it is not only because he is a Aarhusian, but it is also because it is always very cash and into the leg and often also succinctly on the good days, and the message today was that it is a red government that has done something with some socialist parties. I would like to say, however, that there was a modification, and I think the Radical Left was pleased to hear that, but not the Radical Left, and I think that too, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathiesen should have remembered the Christian Democrats, whom I do not regard as a strictly socialist party either. It is an agreement that is over the middle, and it is one of the good qualities of it, and I hope with Mr Beazley too. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that we will be able to do good things with each other in the areas where we agree. We have shown that in other contexts, and I wonder if we can do this too. This also said to the parties that are part of the Finance Act: thank you very much for the responsibility that has been shown, and thank you very much for bringing in the children's agenda as well. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen said that many of us, apart from being members of parliament, are also fathers and mothers, and some are even grandparents, and that in some contexts it can actually erase the political divisions, because here we have something so universally human that binds us together, and that is right. I would also like to say that, on a day which today has the opportunity to talk to many colleagues, and that it is not all politics, because it is often about how our children and those we love, and some of the good things about this financial law are also about how we go in and ensure better conditions for children. This is not least the merit of the SF, just as Enhedslisten has fought very hard for young people and in relation to dental care and made a real structural change in our welfare society, and the Radical Left has not least been very strong on the green agenda, on wind energy, and both the Alternative and the Christian Democrats have also contributed with significant prints on this finance law. So what I put forward in August, when I said that it is a rather dull, responsible financial law, has developed. It is still really, really responsible, and it is, in fact, a little more responsible than what we put forward, which otherwise was one of the most responsible things you have seen for generations, at least for decades, if you do not get so old, but not yet centuries. I heard Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen say centuries, and that will be going too far, but I thank you for the contribution. But it has become more exciting in the sense that some more elements have been included, among others. in relation to children, in relation to education and also the cultural area and the green area, and it has helped us to have a stronger and better financial law than what the government originally put forward, and I would like to sign for that, which is, in fact, a good example of popular government at its best. I also hope that we will see the people's regime, at its best, in another area, yes, one more wrinkle on it and also thanks to the North Atlantic mandates for a very good cooperation, and now it has been said. I think there was a little misunderstanding in one of the Things about whether the North Atlantic pool was something bad, and here I am thinking not of Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, but of another member. I believe that the government and the parties that have created the Finance Act and the four North Atlantic mandates agree that the North Atlantic pool is a good thing, because it can contribute to setting priorities and supporting significant development contributions to both Greenland and Faroese society. I heard the criticism, if it would then be an excuse for the North Atlantic pool to mean that relevant priorities cannot then be taken in other contexts, and that, of course, is the wrong way. But the North Atlantic pool itself is good and important. The last thing I want to say about is something that several others have also touched on, namely Denmark can do more in Denmark and more hands. Do you need more hands out there? Yes, there is. Is this something the government thinks we should work for as soon as possible? Yes, it is, and we have negotiations in progress. We will not be able to make an agreement on this side of Christmas Eve, but I have invited you to continue negotiations immediately in the new year, and it is my hope that we can quickly find each other there, and that by doing so we can also, on the basis of the government's initiative, be able to do more on the basis of which it is planned that we can increase the work offer by approx. 10,500 can get more hands out there and that we can do it in a broad agreement with both red and blue parties. I think that could be very good, and I would like to sign up to those parties that are already active in the negotiating room, and those who have a little harder to get in there should be incredibly welcome, and we hope that we can find each other. This is a task that is too important for political tricks, and it is one that is being shouted at by the Danish business community. But hands are also needed in our well-being, and while we can rejoice that things are going so well for the Danish economy, this is one of the challenges that we clearly and clearly face, as several rapporteurs have said, and I would like to acknowledge that. This is a top priority for me before we go on Christmas holidays, and it is after we go on Christmas holidays, and I very much hope that we in the Folketing can find each other around the track which, from the outset, has not been part of the Finance Act, but which is part of the other political agenda that we will be dealing with shortly. With those words, I look forward to hearing what may be of questions and comments from the Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171306	Thank you very much to the Minister for Finance. It has given rise to a preliminary nine written short remarks. The first one is from Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171315	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for Finance for his comments. It is quite true what I started by saying in my rapporteur's speech. It was best characterized by Jysk humor, for I think that one can afford it in here too, considering that the Minister of Finance knows my sad sense of humor. So it's a good thing he took it down nicely. After all, I am quite struck back by the fact that we have almost never had a finance minister who is so good. Well, I didn't think I'd have to experience a finance minister himself telling me how good he is. Maybe it's a better idea to get others to do it. But it's what it is. What I would like to ask a little is irresponsibility. The Minister for Finance also mentioned this at the end of the debate in relation to the proposal made by the government, which I do not think is that Denmark can do more, but rather that Denmark can do less. I think there is an urgent need for us to avoid an overheating and for the government to do something about it. That is why my question is whether the government will also be willing to discuss taxes during these negotiations and it is not only tax in relation to bottom tax; it is also to get a higher top tax limit or whether you listen to Enhedslisten, who says that you go in and discuss top tax, you don't have government power anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171429	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171433	Thank you, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen for the question. And actually, I really appreciate sir. Troels Lund Poulsen's cheerful pages. I would say, in relation to whether I should have said something nice about myself, that in this industry, of course, sometimes it can be a necessity, because there are rarely many others who do. But it wasn't really my business. My errand was to say that Denmark Danes Troels Lund Poulsen. So the government shares responsibility very, very much, but also the praises that may be in connection with the handling here, with others, including Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen. Compared to Denmark, we do not think that top tax relief is the right way to go. There may be other tax screws you can screw on, and we have to try to talk about that with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171536	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171537	My question is simply whether to discuss an increase in the top tax limit. I think it makes sense. We urgently need a greater supply of work, and it is not a matter of changing some graduation allowance which will not last until a year. So there is a need for urgent action, and that is why the question is whether it is a red line for the government or not... will one discuss setting up the top tax limit a little bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171605	The government has put its proposal on the table, which could provide an increased supply of work of approx. 10,500. This is an important contribution to the situation we are in. May I just remind you in all silence that the government, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen was part of, in the last 4 years up to the change of government managed to get 4,000 We don't think the top tax road is the right way to go. We would like to discuss other things, including international labour. We would also like to talk about whether there may be other screws, including in the tax area, we can turn on the • but the top tax road is not one we see for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171647	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171651	Thank you for that, President. And I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance for his review. I will be a little older and the challenge we face. It is true, as the Minister of Finance says, that money is being dropped, and we have tried that ourselves; we have also set aside a billion dollars of dignity, and a billion. kr. After all, there are still 1,000 million. kr., so it fills something out there. And yet we can now see that there are municipalities that have sent out letters to citizens without prior conversations or anything else that is now being cut down sharply out there. In some places it is because of economics, and in most places it is because of lack of hands. But what I really want to ask the Minister for Finance is: is the Minister for Finance absolutely certain that we can actually do everything just with money? So, do we not have to look at how the public sector actually works? First, we had school teachers who have been angry for many years and have not spoken up their subjects. We are in a situation where, unfortunately, a great many young people do not get a youth education, even though we have a primary school which provides equal access to education for all; yet many do not receive a youth education. And now we are in the health sector and are going to have the same problems. Do we not have other challenges in terms of how we run the public service?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171757	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171758	I am quite sure that we cannot do this with money alone, but I also believe that we must recognise that when there are significantly more older people in the years to come, and fortunately there is no point in pretending nothing and saying that no extra money should be added. But I think you have to do more than that. I also think we need to look at management, culture, how, in some municipalities, in some care centres and nursing homes, where you have roughly the same resources at your disposal, there can be very different results, including in terms of satisfaction with the care that is available. That is why I am also glad that, with broad support in this Parliament, we have in fact now made some attempts, set in motion some attempts with some municipalities, where they say: if we now remove some of the bureaucracy from you, what can you actually do in the economy that is there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171909	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171911	I am, in fact, pleased with the answer, because it will soon be a discussion about how much money you want to set aside and the more money you want to drop off, the better a person you are closest to. But it is the product that is interesting and I tried to say it in my rapporteur's speech. Well, what kind of experience do you get as an elderly person? And even if a municipality has a lot of money, you are equally lonely, and you sit and have a high amount of money and the municipality is rich, or if you have a low amount of money and the municipality is poor; then you are lonely anyway. After all, the Danish People's Party set up a group to work on how to measure quality in a different way than measuring money. Will the Minister of Finance relaunch that project? It was in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222171949	Well, as I said, I think that one of the most important things we have set in motion is the seven municipalities which are now going in in various areas of great importance to the citizens, and which are gaining far greater degrees of freedom than has been the case in the past, to provide better services for citizens without too many constraints, and without spending more time than is absolutely necessary on documentation and other things. And as far as I'm concerned, this is all about the fact that when tens of thousands of more elderly people arrive in the years to come, and that's good, and it's nice to have money followed, but also about the money that comes with, we need to keep looking at how we can spend best and wiseest.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172032	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172036	Thank you. First of all, I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance for a very good cooperation and a good financial law, which is no longer the world's dullest financial law. I think it's gotten really good. So I would like to thank you for that. I would like to ask a few questions about the many poor children that we still have in our society. Under the VKO government, the number of poor children increased by 50 per cent. In 21⁄2 years, from 43,000 to 64,000. Now with some of the things we have done together, we are only down to the starting level that was when Lars Løkke Rasmussen arrived in 2015. One can say that it is going the right way, but we still have 45,000 children who grow up in poverty in Denmark, where what many of us take for granted: giving birthday gifts to your friends and going to football etc. is not an option. Will the Minister for Finance say a little about, now that we are also looking forward, what we can do to reduce that number?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172141	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172143	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen for her fine words about cooperation. I can send them back with warmth. And also thank you for the fact that we are together because this is not the only financial law the government has made, among other things. with SF; it is actually the third in this reign that has taken a number of steps that also benefit our children and joy, including those children who are having difficulty and come from families where there is very little money to do good with. It's important for this government that we take good care of our children and create opportunities, whatever the background you come from. There we have taken some steps together, and I hope that we can take even more, so that whatever family situation you come from and where you might live in Denmark as a child, you will have some really good opportunities to live a life that we all want for our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172247	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172250	Thank you. What I am, of course, asking a little is the work we are going to do in the new year to look at some of the benefits that poverty benefits were introduced under the bourgeois government, which is, of course, the responsibility of most of the more poor children. There we have a common understanding in the understanding paper we made so that we simply have to change that. Can the Minister of Finance say a little about the government's expectations of that work?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172325	What I can say about the expectations of work is that the negotiations are in progress on benefits, and the Service Commission has made its contribution, and now you sit under the auspices of the Minister of Employment and negotiate these things. For the government, it is important that we provide good conditions for our children in this country, including those who come from families that have little money. That is also one of the things we want as a red lead in the work and negotiations that will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172358	Thank you. The next brief remark goes to Mr Beazley. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172403	Thank you again for a good agreement this year, and also a personal thanks to the Minister for Finance for interrupting the negotiations for half a day, so among other things. I could come to Aarhus for an appointment with my son. I thought that was good style, and it also shows that children, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen also mentioned, have plenty of room in here for our own children. One of the things I also mentioned in my speech, which I would have liked us to have gone further, is this shortage of labour, and it is running in this other negotiating path, which we have great expectations of, as the Minister of Finance knows. And one of the reasons why nothing has really happened yet is that we cannot really agree, among other things. between our two parties on international labour. I would like to raise the debate here about why it is that the government has so much difficulty in seeing that people from outside who can come to Denmark and get a job contribute and are something that can solve some of our challenges and is not something we need to avoid.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172511	Thank you for the roses and for your cooperation. I'd like to send them back. I think the Radical Left has also been a very, very constructive negotiating partner in these negotiations and, at the same time, has also been a tough negotiating partner, and that is the way it should be. They've got substantial prints on the agreements we've made. As far as foreign labour is concerned, there is already a great deal of foreign labour on the Danish labour market. This is, of course, an important part of the Danish economy, and the government sees this as positive too. We have also indicated that we would like to see whether there are more things we can do to attract foreign labour wisely. We would also like this to be done in an orderly manner and without the risk of undermining the Danish model. But we have made it clear, also in the context of these negotiations, that we have an open mind and would like to look at what could be of opportunity, and that is one of the things that I expect we to look at together not only Radical Left and government, but hopefully even more of us will have to look at at at the beginning of the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172625	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172627	Thank you. It means a great deal to us that the Minister of Finance says that many foreigners are an important part of the Danish economy. It is not always when you listen to the government that you get the impression that there are foreigners who are an important part of something, so I really appreciate that. Compared to this limit, how much money do you have to earn in order to get in and work in Denmark? We see people who get a higher salary because companies try to live up to what is now standing, but then you are rejected because the salary is too high. And that is the opposite of combating social dumping; it is social upping, or whatever we call it. It seems very illogical to us and to the companies and people it is about, because you get too high a salary, you are rejected from entering. Isn't that something we could at least look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172719	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172721	First of all, I would like to say that there is no doubt that there are many who come as foreign workers to Denmark who contribute to the Danish economy. There are many people who come from abroad who contribute to Danish society and fulfil many important functions. Where we can then have a discussion with the Radical Left, often on foreign policy, is how to organize it and how many it is wise to come here and, at the very least, the problems associated with it. But let us just take that discussion on board. And the issues raised here by Mr. Andreas Steenberg, of course, are also some of the people involved in the discussions we have in the negotiations. So I am sure we will have ample opportunity to discuss them with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172809	Thank you. The next brief remark goes to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172813	I would also like to thank you for a good course of negotiations. This is the third financial law we make, the third very good financial law. We made a Finance Act in 2020 and 2021, and it was the best in 10 years. Now we're gonna make one that's actually just as good. There has really been a strengthening of welfare. We would have liked to go further, because we haven't quite reached the level of prosperity-proof demographics with this financial law that needs just a little extra. However, we have achieved something really good in terms of content, and we are very pleased that we have obtained a free dentist for the 18-, 19-, 20- and 21-year-olds, an extension of the rights of our welfare society. But one place where we think something is missing is in the fight against inequality. After all, we have seen how inequality has increased a great deal over the last 30 years; it has also increased a great deal since 2011 because of the inequality-building reforms that have been made. What is the government's position and that of the Minister for Finance? Are we in a place where the inequality we have is actually okay, or do we really have some vision that inequality is something that must be combated in earnest?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172926	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222172928	Well, I think we've fought inequality together. I mean, one of the most important things you can do to combat inequality is, of course, among other things. to make sure that people who do not have a job get a job, get the opportunity to get a job. We now have the highest employment ever in Denmark on top of the corona level of employment ever. We have an unemployment rate of less than 90,000. It's been really, really important. In addition, we have taken a number of decisions together in the financial laws we have made, which help to reduce inequality. This Finance Act also gives a little jolt if you look at the overall inequality scale of the Gini Coefficient, as it is said for those who have a lot of interest in that kind of thing. So I think we have taken important steps, and that is essential, because in this government we naturally want to combat inequality in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173036	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173038	That is right, and in fact we are fighting inequality more than can be measured by the Gini coefficient, because the increase we have in public spending in relation to improved welfare. When more young people get access to a free dentist and the fight against inequality that lies in it we cannot measure by the Gini coefficient. So we are really doing it better than what is in the Finance Act. But the reason I ask is that we have seen a very, very large increase in inequality. The Enhedslisten presented an inequality issue a few months ago, and if we just have to roll the inequality back to the time when the SRSF government joined in 2011, then it is actually some, most would think, relatively drastic measures need to be taken. It is not because it is extreme measures; it is because inequality has increased extremely. So how far will the government really go?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173126	As I said, we think we are well on our way, and we think that one of the most important contributions, as I also said in my first reply to Mr Arndt, is one of the most important contributions. Rune Lund is getting people to work. I mean, it does a lot for a family to get to work, and it does so in relation to children in those families. This may be the most important tool we have in the toolbox. There are also many other things that we can do and that we do. But the fact that we have the highest level of employment ever and a very, very low level of unemployment is in itself a very important contribution to combating inequality in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173211	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173213	Thank you. The government has now, for the third year in a row, made financial legislation with the Enhedslisten and the SF and the Radical Left, and we must then note that economic policy is being conducted together with the three parties. After all, it annoys us as Conservatives, because we believe that we have made a great deal of effort and have done everything we can to be constructive and compromise-seeking towards the government. We can almost only interpret it in the sense that the government simply basically believes that in economic policy they have more in common with Enhedslisten than they have in common with us. How did it come about that the Social Democracy has moved so far to the left that it is the situation that one would rather do economic policy with the Enhedslisten than one wants with the Conservatives and the Left? We are very disappointed with this and we would like the government to make more use of the offer, which is, of course, still there, to pursue an economic policy that makes Denmark richer and increases the supply of labour • things that we have historically stood together about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173319	First of all, I would like to say that I am sorry if the government has hurt Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's feelings, but we are pursuing the policy that, from the point of view of the government, we think is sensible. It is responsible economic policy, where we take due care, and at the same time we ease the foot from the accelerator, because things are going so well in the Danish economy that we risk overheating, so we also have the opportunity to prioritize some sensible things in the welfare field and strengthen the green transition. This is something that I hope the Conservative People's Party can also see itself in. Now you can almost get that impression when you hear Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, that we haven't made agreements with each other, but we've made big deals with each other. And even if Mr. Rasmus Jarlov earlier had the picture with the car inside Tivoli, it was among other things. with the Conservative People's Party, we made the big deals on aid packages and other things we have done in the last few days. It is with the Conservative People's Party that we have made an agricultural agreement that we have made a major infrastructure agreement. These are huge decisions for Danish society. So those parties that are ready to take responsibility and pursue a policy that, from the point of view of the government, brings Denmark to the right place, we are always ready to cooperate with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173437	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173439	Now it is not a question of my feelings being hurt, because it doesn't really matter, but it doesn't matter that the Danish economy is harmed by the economic policy that is being pursued, where financial laws are being made over and over again, which reduce labour supply and reduce Denmark's gross domestic product and thus actually create finance laws that make Denmark poorer. We think this is really a pity, and we have to note that, although we have been involved in some agreements, that is right, we have to see that more politics, more economic policy is being conducted with the Enhedslisten than that is doing with us, and we find that difficult to understand because we normally see Social Democracy as a responsible economic party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173519	Now to take the very last words from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov saying that the Social Democratic Party is a responsible economic party, I can confirm that, and that is exactly the starting point for this government's policy, that is exactly the starting point for me as Minister of Finance. Agreements have been made with the parties that have been mentioned, including a blue party, namely the Christian Democrats, who even said here from the platform an hour ago that they were hoping to be able to point out Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's party leader as Prime Minister, and they also think it is responsible because it is responsible. And then I hope that we will soon be able to reach an agreement with each other on labour supply and reform. My door is so opened, the invitation has been sent, and I hope we'll see each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173609	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173610	Thank you. I can assure the Finance Minister that the government has by no means hurt my feelings either. I would also like to thank you for the nice words and just return it from here. But I would also like us to start talking a little nicely about the proposals we actually have in our draft budget. Because in relation to lowering the electricity tax, which is both good for the climate, but also good for the many people who are feeling rising electricity prices right now, it is about helping pensioners who have the very least and who are not able to go out on the labour market and earn extra money, but who are now seeing their bills rise. And then we also have an investment in capacity and improved conditions in hospitals. So I would like the Minister to try to make a few comments on the political content too, in relation to whether you actually think it was some things you could see yourself in and as some things it would be good to address. Especially during this period, when we are facing problems in hospitals and with elderly people who have difficulty paying their electricity and heat.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173709	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173711	Well, I always think it's good that parties play their ideas on the field. That is what allows us to have a political debate. In relation to energy prices, we, as a government, have made an agreement with some parties that the municipalities can go out and help not least the elderly, who are in a difficult situation because of the rising energy prices. We have also seen, in relation to some energy companies, that over time we can even out the big bill that is currently in place. And I hope that the new citizens will support that too. With regard to our health care, I believe that the decision we have taken to add the winter coronamilliard is a very important step. And I hope that the New Citizens will support that too. And then, in terms of making the Finance Act, we have now found each other. We've got priority. New citizens are not part of the Finance Act, but that is why it is only good that one should come forward with one's ideas anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173823	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173825	Yeah, that's exactly it. There are a lot of pensioners who need help with this. And I know that it's also part of Denmark can more I ■ lower the electricity tax I mean that at least if my memory doesn't fail. I'd like to address a concern. Now we're both giants, and we like to look forward in time, and these growth figures for bnp, which we're looking at, at 1 per cent. in 2024 and at 0.8%. in 2025 hanging like some black clouds, I think when I look at the economy, especially when you can see that the big fall is also in private consumption. So I would like to know if the Minister for Finance could make some comments on whether we will respond to the figures which appear to be landing at below 1%. growth in bnp.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173913	Well, I think, overall, one should remember that we have been through a huge challenge with corona and that it is still a challenge for Danish society and for the whole world. Despite this, next year we can look into the biggest growth in GDP in 15 years. We look into some pretty nice bnp figures, which is why it is also an expression of the strong position of the Danish economy. We will follow it all the time, as to whether there are some things we can do better and whether there is something we can strengthen. All ideas are welcome. But in all silence, I would say that we are in a really, really good place.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222173959	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174001	It has filled a lot in today's debate, and it also filled the speech of the Minister of Finance here, that there are parties in the Folketing that may not think that Arnepension is God's gift to humanity, and possibly will remove it again. That was the Minister for Finance's reply to, among other things. I mean, it would be the Liberal Alliance. It does not take up so much that the Liberal Alliance wants to introduce something that is better: what we have called a free pension. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance whether he cannot recognise that Arnepension is an amount that can only go to a small proportion of people on the labour market, while free pensions, which we have invented, are a similar amount, which is about as large as they can go to anyone who is in work, and, incidentally, for more years than Arnepension. Will the Minister acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174058	I recognise all good proposals, ideas and other things, and every party is free to make its bids. However, I would just like to say that the man or woman who has been on the labour market for a very long time and who has been toiling and is now benefiting from Arnepensionen, I think that the Liberal Alliance owes an answer to why it is so incredibly important for the Liberal Alliance to take that right from those people while, on the other hand, it is enormously concerned to ensure that those in our society who have the highest salaries are given better economic conditions. So it's okay that sir... Ole Birk Olesen has many Storm P. models and other things he would like, but what you have to do is that there is a right today, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, if he gets a majority for it, will remove tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174205	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174207	I can assure the Minister for Finance that the Liberal Alliance's proposal for a free pension is much less Storm P.-like than the Minister for Finance's proposal for an Arnepension. But it is a pity that when you talk to the Minister for Finance, you always get that kind of hello man ax-stick-answer and bypass reply. In other words, the Liberal Alliance wants to introduce something better than Arnepension, for everyone on the labour market better than Arnepension. That is what we want to replace Arnepensionen with: something that is better. I would like the Minister of Finance to recognise that our proposal is both better and gives more money to more people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174248	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174249	I recognize that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen thinks he has a better idea. So I'm gonna deal with the fact that Mr. Knox... Ole Birk Olesen on the same occasion will remove Arnepensionen, which he seems to think is a bad proposal. And it's with all due respect to what thoughts, sir. Ole Birk Olesen could have about how society could be organized, a right that people now rely on because there is a majority in the Folketing behind it. What is my conclusion here is that if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen gets a majority behind him after the next parliamentary election, then Mr. Ole Birk Olesen remove Arnepension. I think that's deeply, deeply wrong, and if you want to call it a hello man axe handle answer, I'll live with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174336	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174338	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for Finance for his speech, although we in the Free Greens do not agree and will not vote in favour of it. One of the things we are not satisfied with is that there is no anti-racist action plan. Now I have asked several of the other parties involved in the agreement and have heard that actually there are quite a lot of people who would have liked to have had an anti-racist action plan, and a few weeks ago the Prime Minister declared that she was an anti-racist. So why is it that an anti-racist action plan has not been included, instead of just making do with hate crimes?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174424	First of all, I hope there is no one in this Parliament who does not want to fight racism. Racism is one of the most disgusting things one can experience, and therefore there is no doubt about what the government's position is. We believe that racism must be combated. This can be done in many different ways. One way of doing this is to support strengthened efforts in the field of hate crimes, which can have a racist motive, and it can also be because of people's sexual orientation. There may be many reasons why people are subjected to hate crimes, but it is abhorrent when it happens. We have chosen to say with this Finance Act that this is what we want to spend money on, that is what we want to give priority to. And then it is fair enough that there are some parties that would like to have a different priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174529	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174531	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. Now, as the Minister says, the third financial law is made in the lifetime of this government, and there is still a great deal of inequality in our society. Mrs Mette Frederiksen stated before the elections that she was the prime minister of the children. So does the Minister of Finance think that it is acceptable that we still have more than 40,000 children living below the poverty line and that there are an increasing number of families seeking Christmas help and that in psychiatric matters there is pressure from children and young people who have difficulty getting to?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174609	Thank you. I would remind you that the ministers are referred to by their titles and not by their names. Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174615	Thank you. There is no doubt that this government is deeply concerned about helping children who live in very bad conditions, also financially. We have taken important steps in the financial agreements we have made to strengthen the children's area in general. It is also a way in which we can help fight inequality and ensure proper opportunities for all children, regardless of their background, and no matter where they live, to have some chance of a good life, which we think we need to do more to ensure that they are given than is the case today. That is the position of the government, and we are, of course, working towards it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174701	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174703	Thank you. And thank you for a well-proven speech. The Minister of Finance probably also saw the a little fuzzy and freezing and a little wet flock, which stood and demonstrated out in Slotsgården today when we arrived. These were the people who work to abolish the spouse- and partner-dependent benefits. If I understand it correctly, it is part of the negotiations on Denmark that can be further underway. After all, the people I am talking about here had their hands really far above their heads when the Socialists came up with a proposal to abolish those benefits earlier in the autumn. They said to me before I left them today: would you please ask the Minister for Finance and at least be assured that the idea of removing these spouse- and partner-dependent benefits is still on the table and that we can still count on it to reach its goal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174801	Thank you for your greeting and also for the nice words about the speech here. I can say that what the government put forward in its proposal is, of course, fully in line with our objective, and I also hope that we can get 90 mandates behind it. I assume that with the comments that come from the alternative, we certainly have a mandate more than the government's own mandates. Whether or not we can do further things in relation to pensioners in the context of the negotiations that are currently taking place, we have an open mind but, as Mr Giscard d'Estaing has said, we have an open mind. Torsten Gejl's side, it's some negotiations that are in full swing. And I hope that they will land very sensibly at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174849	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174850	It is true that the mandate of the Alternative is included, and it is certainly only a mandate, but what mandate. Minister for Finance Exactly). I was also asked, and I do not know if the Minister of Finance can reveal whether there is any deadline for the negotiations; if you can say anything about when it will be; and if the financing idea that came from the government itself and has been out publicly, namely taxing share gains a little, is still on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222174925	To take the last thing first: we have proposed the share premium tax. I do not think I am revealing any state secrets by saying that there is no immediate majority for this Parliament. But that does not change the fact that it is the government's initiative and that that is what we think would be most sensible. When can we finish? Yeah, that's a really good question. Well, I very much hope that we can finish at the beginning of next year. This is urgent, both in terms of getting more hands, but also in relation to the clarification for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175000	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175002	Thank you. I understand that the Prime Minister is fond of his own Finance Act. Anything else would be weird. Then it is our task as an opposition to try to see if there are gaps in the tables. And there is, unfortunately, one can say. I can mention the high schools, the smaller colleges in rural Denmark. I could mention Glamsbjerg on Funen. I could mention Tønder and others. After all, they are strongly challenged on the economy, and for them that means a lot to them. It is almost a vital necessity for them to get it in place. For the state, it seems to be affordable. They've been in front of you, and they're familiar with it. I can also understand from the Finance Minister's own financial rapporteur that this is probably something we need to look at so that we can get this case done. I believe that we can approach the matter in a rather direct way. So will the Minister of Finance guarantee that we will get this matter settled as soon as possible at the beginning of the new year, so that they can look confidently to have their next season planned, so that there are still high schools in both Glamsbjerg and Tønder and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175104	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175106	Well, first of all, thank you for the introduction that a finance minister should, of course, like the Finance Act. I can confirm that to Mr. Erling Bonnesen that I am, because I think it is both responsible and at the same time holding hands under welfare and making green conversion. Then it is also true, as Mr. Erling Bonnesen says that it is the opposition's job to see if you can find any holes in the cheese. It is not an easy task that has been put on oneself, but it has to be tested. Like the Socialist rapporteur, I am aware of this issue, and I also understand that there has been an appearance. I therefore think that the right way to proceed from this is to have a dialogue with the relevant Resort Minister and see what can be found out about each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175158	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175159	Thank you. So far, so good, you could say. And I also noted that, in his speech, the Minister of Finance himself said that the store is under control. When you make such a good announcement, the whole store must be in control, that is how it is understood. So I would recommend and very much hope that we get that case in place too, which means a lot to those high schools, but is affordable to the state. So I think it's okay for the Minister of Finance to send it back to the Secretary of State. I also believe that, given that this is an economic matter at the end of the day, the Minister for Finance must go a little further. The Minister for Finance could come up with something similar to a commitment that we need to find out. Because it is still a wish that there should be education also in rural Denmark in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175244	As I said, I agree that the shop is under control and I am confident that the dialogue that will be held with both colleagues in this Chamber and also with the relevant minister will be constructive and good. I hope so too, sir. Erling Bonnesen will recognize when you get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175305	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175308	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for the presentation. It is so that I understand that the Minister thinks it is a very good budget law, and I can only believe that the Minister thinks it enough. But there are some that the Minister may just have to thank in this context. Now I come from the business world myself, and sometimes you forget who really is lifting the tasks out there. In fact, I think it would have been appropriate to thank the fucking companies that have taken up this year, to thank civil society, to thank the private savers who have record savings. This is, of course, helping to create the situation that we have at the moment. What I want to ask you is about the energy crisis, which affects these companies, affects our consumption abnormally much. But the government doesn't address it, doesn't say it in a single word. Is it because the problem is not recognised?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175417	First of all, I would like to say that I know it has been a long day, and I may have made a long speech, but I actually did a great deal to say that this is something that Denmark has done very well. Every Dane has taken a responsibility, the social partners, including the business community, have made a huge effort to get Denmark well through, and government and Parliament have also made our contribution. This has been a team effort on something. That is why I fully share Mr. Kim Valentin's assessment that the Danish business community has been a key to Denmark's being as strong as we are, and I hope that all of the Danish Parliament's parties are prepared to sign for that. Then it is also clear that right now we are in a difficult situation in relation to energy prices, because it also affects our business community. We have already taken various steps in relation to what I mentioned before, and some of what we will have to deal with before long is a green tax reform, in which we also have to go in and turn on many different screws. But that does not change the fact that our companies are, of course, also affected by the current situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175541	Then it's mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175543	Thank you. I just don't get any serious about these things. I looked at Danmarks Statistik, and now I'm not talking about the growth we expect in the new year, now I'm talking about facts. Q3 2021: growth • 0.9 per cent.; consumer prices increased by 3.4%. Does the Minister not see that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175617	First of all, I consider that we will continue to see a very high growth in the Danish economy, and I hope that, even if you have a role as an opposition, you will also recognise and welcome that. So do we have any challenges right now? Yeah, we do. We have the challenge of lack of hands, which is one of them, and another is among other things. rising prices, including on materials and on energy. It is not something that is a Danish phenomenon; it is something that affects the whole of Europe right now. Are we taking this seriously? Yes, you might think we are doing that, and one of the ways in which we have done it is to abolish the so-called handicraft allowance in order to take a little off the road of a sector that might otherwise be overheated.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175706	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175707	I would like to ask the Minister for Finance if he, when he has finished slipping around in the veteran cars in Tivoli with Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, wouldn't you like to try one of those really funny things with the Radical Left? For think what we could if we dared to think a little bigger. Well, we have a youth generation now that's really bad. We have children and young people suffering from anxiety and depression, and I believe that they lack strong communities and a strong attachment to adults. That is why I do not believe that we are going to get beyond the fact that we need our educators and our teachers to have more time, so that we need more educators and teachers. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: what are the real expectations for next year? Well, is it another trip in the veteran cars, or would you like to do something bigger with us?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175757	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175758	Well, first of all, sir. Rasmus Jarlov's appeal was that I drove too little in a veteran car with him. And I must disappoint sir. Rasmus Jarlov: When Tivoli opens again, it won't be Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, I'm gonna be in those wagons there; it's gonna be two other boys coming with me, but it's on the very personal level. We would very much like to continue the cooperation that we have had with the Radical Left and, by the way, the SF, the Enhedslisten and other parties to strengthen efforts also towards our vulnerable children and young people. We have, among other things. in relation to psychiatry, in relation to strengthening the primary school, in relation to strengthening the teacher's education, to just take some elements. Then there is the educational area, which is also one of the discussions we have and what we are going to have in our draft Finance Bill, and what might be included in a Finance Act next year is probably just • with all due respect • a post office too early to say anything about. We're just gonna have to pass the Finance Act for this year. But I hope very much and also believe that next year we can do good things together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175912	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175913	I am also looking forward to negotiating, and we will take time to do so. So just one more question: does the Minister of Finance share my analysis? Does the Minister of Finance agree that children and young people today need more contact with adults than they do, in other words that they experience that their educators and their teachers have time for them and that it is therefore also a priority for the Finance Minister that we need more teachers and educators?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222175940	Yes, and that is exactly what we, as a government, in cooperation with, among others. Radical Left, SF and Enhedslisten have not only seen as a task, but have also put action behind in now three finance laws. Can we go further along that road? Yes, I hope and believe so. We must do so within a responsible financial framework, but it is, of course, a characteristic of the parties that have taken responsibility here that they have invested massively in strengthening the conditions of our children and young people. And I also share the view that too many children and young people today have too little adult contact and could benefit and benefit from a stronger community at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180025	Thank you. There are still a few brief comments to be made, and then there will be a short break in which we will have to prepare for votes, but the next one is Mr. President-in-Office of the Council. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180034	Thank you. Denmark can do more. Enhedslisten will more. During the election campaign there was a number that went over and over again. 64 500 children live below the poverty line. The Prime Minister swung up and said: I am the prime minister of the children, and I will remain so; we will fight child poverty. But then we were a little disappointed when we saw the so-called Minister for Employment, who should be a Minister for Labour. It's not a bottom job, he says. It is not a prestige project for the Social Democracy. What is the Minister of Finance's view on this issue? So are we going to start child poverty, or is it going to smoulder on a commission until after the elections? What's the plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180127	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180129	First of all, it is not smouldering in any commission. There is a commission that has delivered its work and made its bid. Now political negotiations are under way, in which the Enhedslisten also participates, and we hope that we will be able to reach a good and sensible agreement, but there is no doubt that these are difficult negotiations either. I think that is clear to everyone. We hope, of course, to be able to obtain a broad majority behind some sensible solutions for the benefit of Denmark. That is why I think I have to say in all silence that this discussion and debate belongs to the Minister for Employment, whom I think has expressed itself clearly and precisely on what is the government's position on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180228	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180230	When it is not a prestige project, it is ugly to call yourself the minister of the children in my opinion. There is also another area where we would like to continue in the Enhedslisten. Development aid stands still at 0.7%. of bni, although we are the richest country in the world and the world's best economy, and it looks good in the future. The poor become poorer and have bigger problems. Climate aid got a little touch, but certainly not what Lars Løkke Rasmussen and the Social Democrats promised when he scared on the table here in Copenhagen. The same applies to the help for vaccine. 0,7 per cent in the poorest countries have been vaccinated for the first time. We won't be safe until everyone's safe. Shouldn't we spend some more money on the Third World?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180319	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180320	Denmark has a responsibility, also in terms of helping the poorest countries, and so do we. The 0.7%. there are very, very few countries in the world that live up to it. Denmark is one of the countries that does this. It is not open to discussion that we should continue to do so. I also believe that if you look at the recent CUP meeting in Glasgow, there was very broad recognition of Denmark's role and the responsibility we take on when you look at it internationally. We have nothing to be ashamed of at all. On the other hand, we have a major task, and I hope that other countries will be inspired by the Danish example and contribute more than they do, because that will be very important in terms of solving the climate challenges we face globally.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180411	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180412	Thank you. The Minister of Finance has spent a lot of time both today and in public talking about how this Finance Act strengthens health care. Therefore, I would like to dive into a small but also quite important corner of the health care system, namely that part of the health service which deals with fertility treatment. We are now hoping that one in ten children in Denmark will come into the world as a result of fertility treatment. It also means that waiting lists, waiting times have increased. In some parts of the country, we now have to wait up to a year to get the fertility treatment that we need. And when we talk about fertility, we all know that the clock is ticking and that time is important. Therefore, my question is simply: what initiatives have been taken in this Finance Act to help the many involuntarily childless Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180517	Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin to raise a very relevant issue. It is true that many families are affected by fertility challenges, and this is very important for the individual couple, of course, but also for our society as a whole. In this Finance Act, there are two separate initiatives in the field of health. One is an extra billion to get our hospital system through a coronavinter, and the other is to strengthen efforts around giving birth, including during pregnancy. In addition, we have done something that I would like Mr. Morten Dahlin's government had taken on board when it was responsible for giving a general economic boost to the regions, so that they will have much better conditions to give priority to what they want to use their energies in health care. So we have given the regions better opportunities than there have been in the past. I am not saying that we have solved all the problems, but we have given them much better opportunities than there was under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180637	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180638	Thank you for your answer, which unfortunately was not really an answer to what I was asking, namely what practical action had been taken in the field of fertility. And the problems in this area have certainly not been resolved. But I don't want everything to worry about criticism. I also have a proposal for the Minister of Finance, because the solution to this problem is actually quite simple. You can do what previous Left Governments have done with social-democratic opposition, namely a treatment guarantee, which says to the involuntarily childless couples like elsewhere in the health service: If the waiting period in the public sector is too long, we give you a free choice to go out and apply for treatment in the private sector on public account. Is that something the government can support?
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180722	In fact, I believe that this was quite an important part of the answer that I gave just now, namely that we generally give the regions a better economy than that which they had under Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Morten Dahlin's government. This is not only true in relation to the tasks to be carried out in the field of fertility; it is true in the Danish health service. That is why it is vital that we have given the boost which, moreover, has also been recognised by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Morten Dahlin's party colleague, Mrs Stephanie Lose. Does this mean that all problems have been solved? No. Does this mean that we can look at ideas in the field of health care? Sure. I think that the concrete proposal should be made to the Minister for Health and to discuss with him about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222180811	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister for Finance. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote. This will allow you to clean the pressure screens and prepare the voting system so that you can log into every other place. I would therefore ask you to leave the Chamber in good order. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 18.20.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222182006	The sitting is resumed. We now have to start voting and I just want to say that we have a lot of votes. 100 votes in front of us, and I sincerely pray that you check very carefully that your name is in the display. Because it is actually the case that, if we do not concentrate on doing these votes and there is a mistake, it can be changed, but it will not be in this sitting, but probably in a meeting on 24:00. 4:00 p.m. That is why I appeal to all of us now to concentrate on getting through these votes. I shall do my best to get through it, and I ask once again that you check that it is your name that is in the display, so that you have got the pressure right. I also need to make sure that Zenia Stampe is in place and that it's okay with you guys now too. Looks like everything's okay now. That is why we are going to proceed with the votes. To section 5. Prime Minister's Office. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: One by the Minister of Finance? It's agreed. To section 6. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 636 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 35 (V, DF and LA), against 57 (S, SF, RV, EL, NB, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 7 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Two of the Finance Minister? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 666 by DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF and NB), against 87 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3-5 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 667 by DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF and NB), against 87 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 668 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF, NB and LA), against 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Six and seven of the Finance Minister? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 616 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF, NB and LA), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 669 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF, NB and LA), against 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 617 of NB and voting is possible. In favour of 14 (DF, NB and LA), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 618 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF, NB and LA), against 84 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 619 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 2 (NB), against 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 12 (DF and LA). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 670 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF, NB and LA), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 10 of the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 671 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF and NB), against 88 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 11 by the Minister for Finance and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 81 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, LA, FG, ALT and IA), against 12 (DF and NB), abstentions 7 (KF). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 12 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 672 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF, NB and LA), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 673 by DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF, NB and LA), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 674 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF, NB and LA), against 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 675 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF, NB and LA), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 13 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 620 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 4 (NB and LA), against 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 14 and 15 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 7. Ministry of Finance. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 16-22, 702 and 23-39 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 8. Ministry of Industry. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 40 of the Minister of Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 41 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 89 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), against 11 (KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 42-48, 703 and 50-64 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 9. Department of Taxation. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 65-77 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. For section 11. Ministry of Justice. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 78-86 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 676 by DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 37 (V, DF, NB and LA), against 63 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 87-90 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 12. Department of Defense. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 91-95 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 13. Ministry of Interior and Housing. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 96-102, 704-706, 103, 707 and 104-111 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 14. Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 112 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 637 of V, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA) voted against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 708 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 638 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 36 (V, KF, NB, LA and FG), 64 (S, DF, SF, RV, EL, ALT and IA) abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 114-123 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 621 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF and NB), against 88 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 622 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF and NB), against 88 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 709 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 623 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 2 (NB), against 88 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 10 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 125 of the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 624 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 2 (NB), against 88 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 10 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 126 of the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 625 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 2 (NB), against 88 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 10 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 127-129, 710, 711 and 132 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 626 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF and NB), against 88 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 133-137 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. For section 15. Ministry of Social Affairs and the Elders. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 138-148 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 677 by DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. in favour of 14 (DF, NB and FG), against 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 149-157 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 678 by DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. in favour of 14 (DF, NB and FG), against 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 679 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. in favour of 14 (DF, NB and FG), against 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 158-168 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 680 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 21 (DF, KF, NB and FG) voted against 79 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 169 and 170 of the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 639 of V, and voting is possible. The vote will end. For 40 votes (V, DF, NB, LA, FG and 1 (KF) (by mistake), against 53 votes (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and IA), abstentions 6 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 171 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 681 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 46 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA and FG), against 54 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 172 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 173 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. voted 98 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, FG, ALT and IA), against 2 (LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 174-177 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 682 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF and FG), against voting 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 2 (NB). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 178 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. To Article 16. Ministry of Health. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 179-195 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 640 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 46 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA and FG), against 54 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 196 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 683 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. voted 10 (DF), against 88 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 2 (NB). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 197-199 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 684 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. in favour of 10 (DF), against 89 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 200-205 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 685 by DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 votes (DF, NB and FG), against 84 votes (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 206 of the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 686 by DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 35 (V, DF and FG) voted against 63 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 2 (NB). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 207-214 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 215 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 66 (S, DF, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), against 11 (KF, NB and LA), abstention 23 (V). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 216-218 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 17. Ministry of Employment. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 219-222, 712, 224-229, 713, 231, 714, 715, 234-240, 716, 242-244, 717, 246-266, 718, 719 and 269-293 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 294 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), against 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 295-297 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 627 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 11 (DF and NB), against 87 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 687 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF and NB), against 87 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 298 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 688 by DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF and NB), against 88 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 720 and 299-303 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 642 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 37 (V, DF, NB and LA), against 62 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 304-309 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 19. Ministry of Education and Research. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 310-350, 721 and 352-361 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 20. Ministry of Children and Education. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 362-365 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 643 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA) voted against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 366-374 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 644 of V, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 27 (V, LA and FG) voted against 63 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, ALT and IA), abstentions 10 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 375 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), against 2 (LA), abstention 12 (DF and NB). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 376-399 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 400 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 91 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, LA, FG, ALT and IA), against 9 (KF and NB), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 401-429 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 21. Ministry of Culture. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 430-434, 722 and 436 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 628 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 4 (NB and LA), against 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 10 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 437-447 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 689 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 votes (DF, NB and FG), against 86 votes (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 448-452 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 629 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. For 4 votes (NB and LA), 86 abstentions (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), 10 abstentions (DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 453 of the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 690 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF and FG), against 88 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 454-456 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 22. Church Department. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 457 and 458 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 23. Ministry of the Environment. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 459-462 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 463 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 100 votes (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and IA), against 0 abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted unanimously. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 464 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 691 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 37 (V, DF, NB and FG) voted against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 7 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 465 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 82 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, NB, LA, FG, ALT and IA) voted against 7 (KF), abstained 10 (DF). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 466-468 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 645 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 39 (V, DF, NB, LA and FG) voted against 61 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 469-479 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 24. Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 480-492 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 692 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 37 (V, DF, NB and FG) voted against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 7 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 493-498 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 693 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 39 (V, DF and KF), against 61 (S, SF, RV, EL, NB, LA, FG, ALT, IA and 1 (KF) (by mistake)) voted neither in favour nor against 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 499-501 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 28. Ministry of Transport. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 502-533 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 29. Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 534-536, 723 and 537-564 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 646 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 37 (V, DF, NB and FG), against 63 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 565-567, 724 and 568-574 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 35. General reserves. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 630 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 27 votes (V, NB and LA), against 63 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 10 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 575-579 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 694 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF, NB and LA), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 580 and 581 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 631 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 34 (V, KF, NB and LA), against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 10 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 695 by DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 37 (V, DF, NB and LA), against 63 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 582 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 696 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 37 (V, DF, NB and LA), against 63 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 632 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 34 (V, KF, NB and LA), against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 10 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 583-596 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 697 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF, NB and LA), against 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 597-606 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 633 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 votes (DF, NB and FG), against 86 votes (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 647 of V, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 34 (V, KF, NB and LA), against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 10 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 648 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 29 (V, NB, LA and FG) voted against 53 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and IA), abstentions 17 (DF and CF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 649 of V, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA) voted against 55 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 650 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 31 votes (V, KF and NB), against 68 abstentions (S, DF, SF, RV, EL, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 651 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 35 (V, DF and NB), against 58 (S, SF, RV, EL, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 7 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 652 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF and LA), against 58 (S, SF, RV, EL, NB, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 653 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA) voted against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 654 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 34 (V, DF and FG) voted against 65 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 655 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 36 votes (V, DF, NB and FG), against 63 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 656 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the vote: 42 (V, DF, KF and FG), against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions: 2 (NB). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 657 of V, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA) voted against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 658 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 43 (V, DF, KF, LA and FG), against 53 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and IA), abstentions 2 (NB). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 659 of V, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 33 (V and DF) voted against 67 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 660 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 37 (V, DF, NB and LA), against 63 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 661 of V, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 33 (V and DF) voted against 67 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 662 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 37 (V, DF, NB and FG) voted against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 7 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 663 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 37 (V, DF, NB and LA), against 63 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 698 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA) voted against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 699 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF and FG), against voting 79 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, LA, ALT and IA), abstentions 9 (KF and NB). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 700 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 38 (V, DF and KF), against 60 (S, SF, RV, EL, NB, LA, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 607 and 608 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. For section 36. Pensioners. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 609 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. For paragraph 37. Interest. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 725-760 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 38. Taxes and charges. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 664 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA) voted against 55 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 701 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 33 (V and DF), against 64 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and IA), we abstained from voting 2 (NB). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 761 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 58 (S, SF, RV, EL, LA, FG, ALT, IA and 1 (V) (by mistake)) voted against 39 (V, DF and KF), abstained 2 (NB). The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 665 of V, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA) voted against 54 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 762-769 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 634 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. For 4 votes (NB and LA), 86 abstentions (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), 10 abstentions (DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 770-772 and 613 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 635 of NB and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 4 (NB and LA), against 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 773-784 and 614 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 40. Reloans etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 785-798 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Paragraph 41. Stock movements, etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 799-803 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Paragraph 42. Net government debt write-offs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 804-806 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. I propose that the examination of the draft budget be stopped and that the draft law be referred back to the Committee on Finance. Are there any objections to this proposal? It's agreed. The proceedings shall then be suspended. ] Then we got through it with a concentrated effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211222190432	Now there will be a half-hour break, where among other things. The financial committee has to go through this in technical terms. I hope you don't find any mistakes. But in half an hour we will meet again, and then there will be a few votes. So we'll meet again at 2:00 a.m. 19.35.
