ParlaMint-DK_20210427144505	The meeting is open. The items listed as No. 2 and No 3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. As you know, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has adopted new guidelines on when to vote in the Chamber on the approval of a derogation from the Rules of Procedure. This means that, as something new, the question of exemption from the 30-day rule will be put to the vote if a proposal is put to the third reading less than 14 days after submission. Today, therefore, we must vote on the approval of the item on the agenda. 2 (L 208). So before I start the vote, I would ask each Member to look at the voting panel that is before him and to check that it is his own name that is in the voting panel. I would just like to put the last Members in their place so that we can start the vote. We are now voting on paragraph No. The vote on paragraph 2 of the agenda shall be taken and, as you know, a three-quarters majority shall be required for such consent. The vote shall be closed. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The consent is hereby granted. The item listed as No. 3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427144655	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 114 by Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF), Camilla Fabricius (S), Henrik Vinther (RV) and Jakob Sølvhøj (EL), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 54 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 9 (KF and LA), abstentions 33 (V, DF, NB). Proposal for adoption No V 114 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 115 by Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen (V) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF) and proposals for adoption no. V 116 of Karina Adsbøl (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427144819	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427144849	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427144913	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427144933	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote shall be closed. In favour, 76 (S, V, DF, SF, RV and LA) voted against 16 (EL, KF, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstaining from voting 2 (NB)). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145003	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145018	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 94 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 2 (NB), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145044	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145059	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 54 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145121	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145150	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against which 0 abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145217	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145239	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against which 0 abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145301	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145313	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour, 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions 2 (NB). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145340	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145404	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 a minority (NB, joined by a minority), joined by a minority (DF). A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 10 votes (DF and NB), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145435	The negotiations then concern the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145442	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 10 votes (DF and NB), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145504	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145525	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (Uffe Elbæk (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 2 (ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 86 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 7 (EL). The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145600	The negotiations then concern the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145607	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 2 (ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 82 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 9 (EL and NB). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145637	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145656	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against which 0 abstained 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and the Minister for Justice will now be informed of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145725	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145802	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145810	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-9, member of the Committee? They are adopted. Then I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145829	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145843	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 11 (DF, NB and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 2 is rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427145931	As there are no more votes, I will take a very short speaking time so that Members who do not want to be dealt with at second readings can leave the Chamber. Then it should be possible to resume negotiations. Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427150044	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Then I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427150058	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427150122	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427150146	Amendments have been tabled. Did anyone want to make a statement? Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Welcome. Søren Egge Rasmussen It is Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten who wishes to speak). Sorry about that. When I saw the rapporteur, I look at the list. I'm sorry. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427150230	Sometimes you have to trust reality more than the written word. I don't think we're exactly in line with this bill. It's a bill, which, among other things, is... should implement a VE directive which must meet some VE communities, and that can certainly be done in many ways, but here we just think that we have ended up in a place where it is not as if we want a popularly anchored participation in the construction of renewable energy. We have had a deputation from BL • Denmark's General Housing, which has illustrated that there are many problems in implementing solar cells in housing associations. I think there is reason to take this back in committee and try one last time and I am glad that the Minister is here to see whether you can answer the questions I have sent in yesterday, so that we can have some adjustments on the bill here, so that there are no obstacles to popular participation, such as in the past. Here, of course, is based on a VE directive, but as in Danish history, it is based on a popular commitment over many years. So that is my intention to take this back in committee, and then I hope that something will come out of it that is a little better. I see that the Minister is nodding, so I am optimistic so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427150358	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427150412	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on the promotion of renewable energy, the Biofuel Act, the Act on the supply of natural gas and various other laws]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-24, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. A vote is then taken on the draft law referred to in B [Proposal for a law amending the Biofuels Act]. 2 Request for a vote on Amendment No 2 25 and 26, joined by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427150504	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then, as I said earlier, there are no more votes and I shall now postpone the sitting for ten minutes. This can allow you to just clean the places. Then the sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 15.15.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427151459	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome to sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427151517	Thank you. The bill we have to deal with here is about the protection of whistleblowers. After all, it is a debate that has filled a great deal for a number of years now, and it has done so because it is important. It is important to be able to draw attention to illegal activities in a situation where it can be very sensitive; it is important to have that opportunity. What we have to deal with here is the implementation of an EU directive on the protection of persons reporting infringements of EU law; that is to say, it has to be transposed into Danish law. It must be in everyone's interest. The aim of the bill here is therefore to implement the whistleblower directive, but in addition to that, the aim is also to establish a whistleblower scheme in connection with Danish law. The proposal is the result of a very long process in which many stakeholders have been involved • the social partners, business organisations, KL, Danish Regions, whistleblower organisations etc. etc. The proposal contains a number of initiatives and I would like to mention some of the most important ones here. Firstly, there is the obligation for all public and private employers with more than 50 employees to set up an internal whistleblower scheme. This means that any employee can report serious matters either in writing, orally or both, and that the employer is obliged to ensure that all reports are followed up carefully. Secondly, there is an initiative to establish an independent and independent external whistleblower system within the Data Protection Agency. All reports received shall be recorded in accordance with the confidentiality of the person receiving and following up the alerts. This system must therefore be complementary to the internal arrangements at individual workplaces and can therefore be used in cases where the whistleblower does not feel comfortable using the workplace system or if the internal reporting has not led to the desired effect. As I have said, the directive obliges us to introduce a possible whistle-blower system in the context of EU law, but we therefore go further and commit ourselves to the possibility of using the system in relation to national law. And that is quite reasonable, healthy and logical. It would also be strange to have to ask someone who reports something to decide whether it is now a matter of national law or EU law. That is why it is good that we are now getting this arrangement so that whistleblowers can shout guard in arms about criminal matters, for example. abuse of financial resources, infringement of environmental legislation, serious harassment at work or other. And in this proposal there is, in fact, that it can also be used in connection with sexual harassment. It is clear that the debate on whistleblowers has filled a lot and that there have gradually been many examples, which is why it is of course also important that you can be protected as a whistleblower. Therefore, the draft law also introduces a special obligation of professional secrecy with regard to the identity of whistleblowers, a ban on all forms of reprisals against whistleblowers and the possibility of compensation in cases where a whistleblower might unduly be subjected to reprisals. With those comments and this review, the Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427151858	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left. Welcome to sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427151922	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. The draft law we are considering today has, among other things, been adopted. The aim is to implement the EU directive on the protection of persons reporting infringements of EU law, also known as the whistleblower directive, in Danish law. And, as with all other EU directives, it is up to each Member State itself to make laws on how to achieve the overall objective of the directive. Here the government goes so little further than what is covered by the directive, as the government proposes that the bill should also apply to reports relating to serious violations of Danish law and other serious matters. In addition, the government proposes that internal whistleblower schemes be established with employers in the public and private sectors with more than 50 employees and, in addition to the internal whistleblower schemes, the government proposes that an external whistleblower scheme be established within the Data Protection Agency. In the Left, we believe that EU directives should be implemented as a minimum, but we are willing to override our principle in this matter, as we are convinced that whistleblower schemes will help ensure a more transparent and trustworthy corporate culture in both the private and public sectors. It is in the public interest that critical and illegal conditions in the workplace are brought to light, and it should therefore be safe to be a whistleblower. Just think of all the cases through the ages that might have gone in the bud or even completely avoided. And we have to assume that whistleblower schemes can also have a preventive effect, so that we can support the draft law as a starting point, but would like to have explained in greater detail during the committee procedure the administrative and economic consequences, not least for the private sector, and whether there is any possibility of compensating or otherwise, just as we should have seen whether the demarcation that exists has been affected in the same way in the community. As a starting point, however, we take a positive view of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427152117	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur, and I would ask the rapporteur to prepare for the next rapporteur, yes, precisely. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427152142	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we are relatively positive about this proposal. We think it is good that it is proposed that it is not only an infringement of EU law, but that national legislation also applies to whistle-blower schemes. It is also good enough that public authorities can be reported once a year for reports to the Authority. It is important that such schemes create the possibility that if you have something on your mind and if there is something that does not play, then you also have a place to go as an employee. One of the things we need to look at in committee is whether we have put it in the right place, in other words, in relation to employers with 50 employees, is that right there, or should it be somewhere else? Then there is another thing which, of course, has provoked debate in relation to this proposal, even when it was played out in November, and that was, and indeed is: is it the case that internal arrangements should be maintained, or should there be someone from outside who has the opportunity to look at these arrangements in the cards? In relation to the reports that then come, should anyone, independent of that authority, look at them? This is an important issue which we need to discuss in greater detail; whether we think it has been properly tackled by the government. Then we're a little skeptical about the Data Protection Agency as the only external authority. Should there be anyone else in there besides just the Data Protection Agency? Does the Data Protection Agency have sufficient professional knowledge? We must also examine this during the committee procedure. These are often complicated things about environmental legislation, crime, financial crime and much more. And does the Data Protection Agency really have complete control? This may be questioned. We hope that these arrangements will be used, and in this way it is a sensible approach. And I think that some of the cases we have discussed around the Folketing and in public have shown that there is a need for such arrangements. They have come to stay, and we must also constantly look at whether they are strong enough in relation to what we want the arrangements to hit. It is clear, then, that some of what has been discussed, when we are talking about the treatment of the authorities, is of course public, and that is freedom of expression. And it is clear that we would have liked the government to have used this opportunity to be more clear about it. After all, we still have a public law that is very closed. It is an independent problem. Then we have something in relation to freedom of expression among employees, where it is a recurring phenomenon that we do not always dare to speak out as a public servant. It is more a part of the public debate and we hope that the government will play out at some point in these areas. I know that we will be dealing with a motion for a resolution in this area from the SF at a later date, this month of May. It's going to be the forerunner of it. So it is important that we have independent legislation in such areas. All in all, however, we are positive about the proposal and we will discuss in committee what improvements are needed. And are the arrangements put in here strong enough to protect employees in each situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427152529	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427152552	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Minister for Justice for bringing forward this important bill. After all, it is a bill that should make it both easier and safer to be a whistleblower and thus help to ensure that critical conditions in our public and private jobs are brought to light. The figures show, unfortunately, that the insecurity of expressing itself on critical conditions in the public sector is great; this has been mapped out in several studies, and unfortunately it is also growing. When public servants know of questionable conditions that they choose to stop, we are faced as a society with a really big problem, because it also means that we are losing the opportunity to do something about those things and to change them. We see a number of examples of public employees being familiar with some critical conditions at their workplace, but they do not dare to say it out loud. They fear being fired, or that their employer will set their feet for them. I also have to say that yesterday, with the sub-report by the Commission on Instruction, we were given an insight into how wrong things can be when public employees may not have anywhere to go about highly critical conditions within their organisation. And it cannot be denied that some of them have held back a little, because it is not very career-promoting to make criticisms or point out things that you do not think are right. Then I think we could do more to protect the freedom of expression of public employees, even though we are going some way with this proposal. But you will probably not be using a whistleblower scheme if you are afraid of your employment relationship. That is why we need to address some of the points that we think lie in the SF's resolution, which we will soon have to deal with, which is precisely about guaranteeing the right to express itself as a public servant. This is something that the Freedom of expression Commission is proposing, that is to say, a reversal of the burden of proof, so that the employee who speaks out about questionable matters is not left alone with the burden of proof, so that a sanction, a dismissal or a transfer, or whatever, is not due to the use of his legal freedom of expression and, of course, compensation to those who are still exposed to it, because that is what happens. The draft law sets out a tone on how to change legislation towards a more comprehensive and coherent regulatory framework for whistleblowers, and it is of course positive that the draft law provides not only for an infringement of EU law but also for an infringement of Danish law. However, there are some things in the proposal that I think we need to discuss in the Committee on Legal Affairs, because there are uncertainties and shortcomings which, unfortunately, do not entirely fall to the benefit of the whistle-blowers. The conditions covered by the extension of the substantive scope and the Union legal acts expected to be covered by the protection are not specified. In this area, too, there are some uncertainties, in relation to what is meant by extending the scope to other serious matters. For example, when is sexual harassment? not seriously enough to be covered by whistleblower protection? This is to be looked at in the equal treatment law after the law, but perhaps it should be more clear text or as an independent chapter of the whistleblower law. If it is not quite clear, we will fear that people do not dare to say things out loud because they are in doubt as to whether it is covered by the legislation and then we are in the same way. The legislative proposal then does not meet the EU directive's ambition to provide advice and support. The directive behind it provides for free independent information and advice on whistleblowers' rights, assistance from supervisory bodies in reprisals and, above all, access to legal aid in legal proceedings. So there is room for improvement in the Minister's bill The confidentiality rules of the bill go beyond what is necessary in relation to the directive's requirement to protect the identity of whistleblowers; I think that is actually very good. The protection of whistleblowing should not be restricted solely to serious offences and grosser repeated infringements of the principle of law. And the bill does not guarantee protection for whistleblowers who themselves use a relationship with the police or a relevant supervisory authority to speed up the process. Finally, I should like to mention that, in the SF, we also have a hoop on our intelligence services, which we have also put forward in the House in the past. We still think that they should have external whistleblower arrangements, and that it should not be at the department, but that it should be at the intelligence services supervision. I agree that we are awaiting clarification from the Defence Intelligence Service, but certainly Special Branch will also have to be involved. And then I think that unfortunately we have seen examples of cases in which there has been overflow in the press and that employees in both places are frustrated, and that is really bad when it comes to secrecy, and so it would be better to have independent supervision that can be trusted and can be approached. But overall, we're happy with this whistleblower law, and we can also see that in a lot of the consultation answers, after all, you're quite happy with the new legislation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427153128	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. I would like to welcome the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427153203	Thank you very much for the floor, President. Then blow the whistle not to a football match, but to a new law on whistleblowers implementing an EU directive. Blowing the whistle is for whistleblower to draw attention to illegal activities. This must both lead to the enforcement and enforcement of existing legislation, and at the same time it must provide protection for specific whistle-blowers who blow the whistle when something does not go right, just as it whistle-blows when something illegal happens on the football field. But the whistleblower differs from the soccer judge by the fact that he may have a suspicion or knowledge of a colleague's or perhaps a friend's possible illegal act, that is, the illegal act of a teammate. Being a whistleblower is therefore equivalent to a whistleblower, which is why it is rare that someone on the football team says: Our player actually committed a penalty kick. Can't you judge that, sir? Judge? Then everyone on the team would probably be upset, and therefore there is a special need for protection of whistleblowers. Illegal acts and possible abuse are, however, much more serious than hand on the ball, and therefore the comparisons here stop. But we are now getting the chalk track up with a proper framework for protecting whistleblowers. It is proposed that the law covers infringements of certain EU areas covered by directives, but also reports concerning serious violations of Danish law and other serious matters, because illegal situations must be stopped as soon as possible and we should not fear for our jobs just because we point out that the rules of the game in society are not being followed. The law requires all legal entities in the public and private sectors with 50 or more employees to establish whistleblower systems and reporting procedures, and also introduces a special scheme in the Data Protection Agency. The starting point, when implementing EU directives, is usually a minimum implementation, but here in particular the material scope is extended, so that the law also applies whistleblowing about Danish law, i.e. violation of Danish law. This seems to the Radical Left to make sense, but we also think that there may be a need for clarification on this extension of the material scope, for example. In particular, it relates to the concept of serious matters. This is somewhat unclear, and several hearings also point out this, which is why we would like to see some of the other points raised in the hearings, which several people point out to be inaccurate, clarified in the committee's work as well. The Radical Left would also like to take part in looking at whether, without affecting the law's impact, there can be something we can do to minimise the burdens on companies in relation to the concerns raised here. But overall, the Radical Left is in favour of the draft law and we look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427153556	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427153616	Thank you. Unfortunately, we have come into a situation where it has become more difficult for public employees to come forward when something wrong is going on in the system, and at the same time we have made it close to impossible for the press to discover when things are not as they should be. That means that today we are in a situation where we are at risk of our democratic principles and can no longer guarantee world-class rule of law. Fortunately, in recent years we have taken initiatives in various areas of the public system to ensure that whistleblowers can safely report what they know and ensure that investigations into suspicious conditions can be started. And I really think that the latest Commission report is a very good example of the fact that it is under pressure that it can be difficult for public employees to say that it can be difficult to come forward with what they know. In 18 municipalities, whistle-blower schemes have been set up on their own initiative, and I think this is very sensible, especially in view of the situation we are also in, and which we have also discussed many times in this House, namely that the freedom of expression of public employees is also under pressure. You have to be able to tell about what is wrong at your workplace, and you have to be able to do so both internally and externally if you think it will have an effect. However, many people today refrain from doing so because they are afraid of employment law reprisals, and we also know that this is happening. We know that people are being sidelined by promotions; we know that people are being transferred; we know that these things are happening because the employee has actually dared to quit. Then I can understand that you do not really want to do so when you know that it has such great consequences. Therefore, whistleblower schemes are a step in the right direction in order to ensure that employees can be comfortable in reporting conditions at their workplace which should not take place. In relation to this specific legislative proposal, I have some doubts about exactly what the scope is, and several rapporteurs have also mentioned this. In any case, there are doubts about this in the consultations, and I therefore hope that the Minister will be able to help clarify it a little bit. I hope that this law will include breaches of the law of ministerial responsibility, because unfortunately I believe that many officials, including those who are very high up in the system, will find it difficult to say away from their minister if they do not agree with the legality of the tasks carried out. And if, for fear of your own trust, you refrain from setting your foot down, you risk employment law reprisals later on, when the illegals come out, which is a bit of a debate running in the press now. We want to avoid such situations. In addition, we also believe in the Enhedslisten that whistleblower arrangements should be improved in our intelligence services. It's not part of this bill, but it's a discussion that I know we have to do. However, from the outset, Enhedslisten can back this bill, although we just have some clarification on the scope.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427153951	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Mads Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427154018	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for Justice for the proposal. I spent a long time looking at this word whistleblower and wondering if it was really the best thing we could come up with, but when I got the word translated, it kind of made sense that we use the English term, I think. I know that this is a necessary part of creating a stronger focus on the violations and breaches of rules that we are looking at in jobs, both in public and in private. Having a whistleblower system is in the public interest, and so we also have to protect it and look after it. In fact, I myself come from one of the municipalities that has set it off. I don't think it's been used so much yet, but it's there, and it's good to have. As a starting point, we are also positive about the proposal and would actually like to recommend that we also use a little gunpowder to discuss in committee how we can look into avoiding making it bureaucratic and hassle for employers and business out there in relation to the practical application of this proposal. It could be great if we could get some of the edges of the filet off as there might be, so we avoided a huge unnecessary bureaucratic burden for our business community. I don't think I'm gonna say that much anymore. However, as I said, we are positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427154138	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. I can therefore welcome the next rapporteur, who comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427154153	This draft law, which is, after all, an over-implementation of an EU directive, will undoubtedly burden Danish companies financially, and with the entry into force of the law in December this year, the burden will hit companies particularly hard. In new citizens, we want more openness in the public sector. This is among other things. Therefore, we have recently proposed to abolish the ministerial service rule in the Public Service Act. We are fighting for greater freedom of expression as a public servant in their recruitment. However, to impose additional burdens on private companies, as this proposal will do, at a time when they are already burdened, and without providing any real evidence that the legislative proposal will solve real problems and is proportionate, we do not think it appropriate. That is why, in the present state of the proposal, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal. However, we look forward to the committee reading and it sounds as if in some places there is a desire to take out some of the thorns in the proposal, and then we will have to see where we land. However, as it stands here, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427154315	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are also no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur here either. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427154340	Thank you. This bill provides for the establishment of whistleblower schemes in public institutions and authorities as well as private companies. We fully support the fact that public bodies, authorities and institutions must have a whistle-blower system, and this is because when you enter a public job, your employer is, of course, formally the municipality or region or state in which you are employed, while in a more meaningful sense it is the public and the Danish society that you work for, and if you find in your job that the authority or institution in which you are employed does not comply with the law, it is in the public interest that you are really the employer that you tell publicly about it. It's different with a private job. When you are employed privately, you do not work for the public, but you work for your employer, and I find it very difficult to imagine how a private employer could make things work, even with other employees, if an employee had taken advantage of a deliberate or unconscious mistake made by the employer in relation to the legislation in force, to notify the employer to an authority, after which one saw as the person who had done it to his employer the right to remain in his job and to go to the same job as one's colleagues. In a private company you are not employed for the public but for the private company's sake, and therefore there is a fundamental difference between who you work for when you are a public employee and who you work for when you are a private employee, and therefore it makes no sense to treat the two jobs in the same way as compared to a whistleblower scheme. We are not in favour of requiring private individuals to set up whistleblower schemes. It may well be useful to do so in certain private companies, especially in relation to what owners need to know, what the board needs to know, etc. on what is going on among the employees, but in relation to the public sector, the general rules governing what people are obliged to say and what they are not obliged to say about things that are illegal must also apply to private companies. But if you take advantage of them, you do not have the right to be employed forever, because you simply cannot make a job work in this way. In addition, we note that it is a little mysterious estimated to cost 18 million. kr. Each year for companies to administer this scheme, while the EU estimates that it costs 450 million. Danish employers estimate that it costs 800 million. kr. For that reason too, we will not be able to vote in favour of the draft law as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427154657	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is for Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427154702	Thank you. It's this separation between the public and the private that I don't quite understand. After all, the bill here also protects the identity of whistleblowers. Perhaps we can imagine an employee in a large construction company who finds that construction companies deliberately and fairly grossly exceed not only EU law, but also a Danish law that can be EU law in relation to procurement, and it can be a Danish law in relation to mixing diluted cement in something or something, or whatever it may be, and it is done in a way that is so violent and so illegal, and one is also nervous about the reprisals that can come if one goes to one's employer, and that a whistleblower scheme is used to draw attention to this fact. Why is it that it is not reasonable to introduce such a system?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427154754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427154756	I certainly think that, if we are dealing with serious offences such as the one we are dealing with. That's what Mr. Jeppe Bruus mentions whether the correct concrete has been used for the construction of a large building for purely safety reasons, it is important that the correct concrete has been used so that employees are praiseworthy that they tell about it publicly if they have not done so. But, on the other hand, I find it difficult to see how to make such a job work subsequently if there has been that loyalty to a social conscience, but disloyalty to the employer. Then I think it is best to put an end to working conditions. I would certainly assess that as the best thing to do, and if a whistleblower system protects the employee's right to remain in the workplace, I just think it's hard to make things work. And that is also true in cases where there are less general conditions at stake, where protection also applies, and where the good thing about doing so is less.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427154900	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427154902	But that is also interesting, because the rapporteur then distinguishes it between social interests and disloyalty to an employer, but at the same time recognises that the disloyalty should be that of pointing out something that is in the interests of all of us, namely whether it is safe to move into this building. At the same time, we are proposing that we should be able to remain anonymous and that, if there are reprisals in this respect, it would also be illegal. It is so assumed that this arrangement works and that one can be anonymous. Is it not reasonable, then, that there is better access to these conditions than there is today, where, if you are sitting in the system, you may not be quite comfortable going to the Extra Bladet, or know where else you can get the drain for this, but that there is actually a formalised access to airing it if there is something very, very serious, and if it is in the interests of all of us that it comes to the surface?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427154954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427154955	As I said, I think that, if there are general conditions, you should whistleblow about it, that you should tell about it to the relevant places. However, one should not expect that one can get a well-functioning job out of being there afterwards. And the fact that you make a law that forces companies to continue to have employees who have drawn attention to more or less general things makes it practically impossible to have a good working environment in a company, and that is why I do not think it is a good way to do it. Public institutions are quite different, because public institutions are there to serve the public, and if you do the opposite, there is something seriously wrong, and then some bosses have to be fired.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427155037	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, and so the rapporteur's line has been completed and brought to an end, and I can give the Minister for Justice the floor. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427155052	Thank you and thank you for the largely positive comments that have been made by all the parties. It is important for our democracy, but it is also important for our social function as such that there is an opportunity to reveal serious maladministration that might take place in jobs in Denmark, and this is, in fact, the main reason why it should be easier and safer to be a whistleblower. A number of issues have been raised which will find their clarification in the further work in committee and in the readings in this Chamber, but I would just like to mention a few things, including the dilemma that I think we will face in the further work. Both the Left rapporteur and the Conservative rapporteur pointed out the administrative costs estimated in the latest forecast to have conversion costs of 279 million. kr. and subsequent running administrative burdens of 25 million. kr. A year, which is then imposed on our jobs in Denmark. Faced with that, the real concern is to clean up the sort of things that are here. The SF's rapporteur pointed out whether it should be extended even further and, for example, whether it should be extended. bring legal aid and aid etc., which will only increase costs further. That is why I believe that one of the tasks of further work is to ensure that this balance has been struck as well as possible, and that is what we have tried to do with the legislative proposal, and I am certainly not saying that there can be nothing that can be done differently and better, and we are very prepared to look at it in the future as there may be. Then it is true that we will have a different process on the Public Service Act, and there will also be a process on the freedom of expression of public employees, in which I would just like to point out that I have heard all praise the freedom of expression of public employees, but that I have also been in consultation where things have been problematical, as public servants have said as part of that freedom of expression. So there are also some dilemmas built into it that have at least been drawn up in that context. But basically, thank you for the positive comments and it seems that a very broad majority could be gathered behind this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427155329	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate on L 213 has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427155350	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427155411	Over the next few hours, probably three motions for resolutions from the Danish People's Party, which have very different content, and which I can just as well say from the outset that I am impressed to a varying degree. I would like to begin by saying about the motion for a resolution tabled here, which seeks to prohibit the date of, or personal relations with, people outside prison, who are sentenced to life, that I think this is, in many ways, an interesting proposal. On the one hand, it raises an important discussion about how we deal with people who have committed very serious crimes and, on the other hand, it focuses on what is reasonable to sacrifice and their relatives to live with. In my opinion, there is no doubt that it is offensive for persons who have been the victims of a crime to see the perpetrator who has caused them harm or to see that the perpetrator can live in different ways, like everyone else. It is important, I believe, for the sense of justice that the victims can see that justice is being done and that the perpetrator is being held accountable and that the crimes committed and the actions carried out have consequences. But I would first like to dwell on the group of people we are talking about; the authors of the motion are talking about the life sentences. We have quite a few life sentences in Denmark, fortunately, but unfortunately we have seen in several cases that they are the subject of interest both from the media and from various individuals, even long after they have been sentenced and imprisoned. I think that is problematic. I do not think they deserve that attention. When we talk about restricting contact with the outside world for the people who have committed the most terrible crimes, I think it is natural to talk about those who have been sentenced to detention. A criminal will only be sentenced to detention if he or she has committed extremely serious crime and if he or she is deemed to be very dangerous. In the same way, the victims of such crimes and the relatives of the victims are just as affected by the situation as the victims and relatives are in the situation where the sentenced person has been sentenced to life. That is why I think we owe it to those concerned to take the same account when we look at the people who are sentenced to life and those who have been sentenced to detention when we take this discussion, and the discussion we have today is also about what we, as a society, should tolerate. Because we need to allow the worst criminals in our society to get a lot of attention from the outside world, they can use to stage themselves, sometimes stage their atrocities, publish books, etc.? It is extremely offensive to the victims, it is extremely offensive to their relatives, and it must be a revival of some totally traumatic conditions when you read in the media that the perpetrator is dating people outside the prisons. It is, in fact, offensive to the sense of justice of all of us and does not, I think, show the necessary respect for victims and relatives when the most dangerous people in the country are free to enter into such relationships. It is also a question of security. We have seen a few cases in which the life sentence has been in contact with young people. There is no doubt that this is not appropriate. I also think contact with other young people who, for one reason or another, may be easy to influence is deeply problematic; I do not remember whether reference has been made to it in the motion for a resolution, but there was recently a situation in which there was one of our life sentences who had a relationship, not physically, but nevertheless a relationship, with a young girl. As I indicated in October in response to a question from the Committee on Legal Affairs, I have asked my officials to look at the possibilities of restricting the rights of life-time sentenced people, and this also applies to their voices on social media. My wish is that we should improve, no, not that we should improve, but that we should look a little more closely at the rights of life-judged and sentenced people and, in particular, what they should have. There are, of course, limits to what restrictions we can impose, among other things. because of our international obligations, but also because we are a community governed by the rule of law. That is why I believe that we are doing the right thing by first examining where the limits of what we can are and then, when we know the limits, we can decide on the limits to be applied. To round off: The Danish People's Party points to a problem that we need to address. It is offensive to the victims, it is offensive to their perpetrators that they can read over and over again in the media that those here who have caused so much damage can enter into social relations, perhaps sometimes almost through their crimes. I do not think that we should confine ourselves to looking at the possibilities of dating by the convicted. I consider this proposal to be a welcome opportunity to consider more initiatives restricting the rights of life-time and prison sentences, so that, among other things, we can. also looks at their contacts with other people outside prisons, who, at worst, can lead to further crime. It is therefore my wish that we see the problem in a broad context that requires some study. So, provided that a bill is first tabled in the next parliamentary assembly and not in this, and subject to the initiatives being put into effect being designed within the framework of Denmark's international commitments, the government agrees with the Danish People's Party. In this context and under these conditions, the government will therefore be able to support the motion for a resolution and I look forward to the further debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160034	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160039	I would like to thank the Minister for a positive reception of this proposal. You are even ready in the government to take care of prisoners, and we in the Danish People's Party agree entirely with that. If we can get that group in, so that they can't do dating with women, or for that matter, men outside the prison, while they're in prison for either an indefinite period or a lifetime, that would be a good thing. As far as we can get, and as soon as we can get through with this, as possible, will be good, we think in the Danish People's Party. What I would just like to ask is: if we now agree that we should have stopped this dating when you sit as a life sentence in a prison, when does the Minister of Justice expect us to be able to make the legislation? That is one question. Another question concerns the fact that the Minister mentions possible international commitments that could prevent some of what we would like to do here in the Danish People's Party. What could it be? So what prevents us, as an independent country, from saying that our life sentence should not be able to date in prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160148	Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160151	The main issue with the international commitments is whether there are any left and right restrictions that we should be within. I do not know whether this specific framework affects dating, but I would also like to see a broader view than just dating, i.e. what limitations could be placed on the activities that can take place for life and caregivers. So it's more of a reservation than being able to spread it out a little more. As far as the time perspective is concerned, I think it is clear to the proposers too that it will not be in this Assembly. On the other hand, I very much hope that we can get along with it in the next parliamentary assembly, provided that the studies that are needed can be put in place. But there is no desire not to promote it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160242	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160243	Well, we're happy about the intention. With regard to the fact that it can be in the next Assembly, would I say that we would prefer this resolution to be adopted now, but if the government does not want to be involved and the Socialists would like to wait a little, could we get an assurance that a proposal was made by the government before Christmas? Because that will increase the chances of us adopting something relatively quickly. After all, this is a situation with which the citizens of Denmark have lived for many years, and now something is about to happen. Now we're gonna have to stop this with life-timed dating from prison, preferably as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160316	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160319	No, that is not true when it is interpreted as meaning that the Social Democratic Party would like to wait a little longer on this. So, the reality is that there's a relatively short time left in this assembly. And the reality is that there are some things that we need to clarify before we can figure out what the proposal should look like. However, as I have also said quite clearly, I think, in my opening speech, we share the intention in this and the outrage about some of the situations we have seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160345	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160347	I actually understand if, as a relative, you sit out there thinking what it is that you can roll up such love relationships on the screen. But I'm wondering something. At any rate, I remember that years ago, we adopted rules that could prevent such things as this. Peter Lundin in that tone forward on the screen, that they could not just be part of press performances, and therefore I am just a little wondering how those rules are enforced today, how it is even possible to roll up such a love relationship so we can all look with. I thought you had rules to prevent that from happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160439	I think there are too, or there is, but the question is whether the masks in the net are too big. Some of the examples we have seen have been that you have the right to call out and have contact with a particular person who then updates things on your behalf or passes the information on to another person who then updates things, for example. on Facebook, so that it is not the inmate who does it directly, but does it via people. Another example has been that of the young girl, who also had contact with one of our lifetimes judge, where it is an exchange of letters that takes place. After all, there is an opportunity for the department to review the post, but if there is nothing offensive, illegal or otherwise in it, the correspondence will be possible anyway, and that is something we must try to find out how we deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160532	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160534	Although this is also a relevant discussion, the issue I am more concerned with here is that we actually have the opportunity to ensure that they do not appear on television. That's why I get a little curious about how it can be done in this case. I also believe that we have an obligation to spare the victims, those who are relatives of someone who may have been killed, and to ensure that their television screens are not exactly filled with pictures of the person concerned. So what's the minister thinking about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160612	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160623	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments and we can start with the rapporteur's round. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160638	Thank you for that, President. The Minister of Justice has been kind enough to explain the views of the government and, therefore, of the Social Democrats on the motion for a resolution. So let me just add to partly recognising the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, partly voting in favour of the contempt and outrage that is, primarily on behalf of the relatives, that this gallery of people can be performed on various platforms. As I understand it, it is also a motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party in the past, a re-submission of the late B 72 and then only the Social Democrats and DF voted in favour of the proposal, as I have just been able to inform myself in the history. Now we're nice people, so we don't stand like that and drop names from the platform, but I'm thinking that most people, if there's someone sitting with us, probably have a pretty clear picture of who we're talking about. After all, it is people who have committed bestialous murders and who also, in some cases, have a pretty clear deed that exposes some women to some creeps and then you can watch these men date or get married over and over again. And it seems crazy. It is not a question of a motive for revenge against anyone who has been sentenced, but of what is right and fair in relation to the sense of justice. And the sense of justice is not an objective size, but ultimately politically defined. You just have to say that in relation to the sense of justice for the next of kin, you don't have to be an expert to figure out that it can't be particularly exciting to experience this. Therefore, there is reason to consider whether we can limit it further, in other words, in relation to the limitations that already exist today regarding this person gallery. And as the Minister for Justice also mentioned, it is not only in relation to life sentences, but also for damned people who have received a detention sentence. So we would like to help support the motion for a resolution in its present form, because it requires legislation to be implemented here within a month or a month and a half, but hopefully in the form of a joint report where we saw, with some of what the Minister of Justice mentioned, a model for this. And then the task is to find a majority, hopefully, and that's the next task I'm thinking we can try to help each other with. After all, it is more fun to put forward a legislative proposal if there is a majority in favour of it. And after all, the Social Democracy and DF do not have that alone. But hopefully the day here can also reflect whether it is possible. With these comments, I shall conclude my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160929	Thank you. There is no brief comment to Mr. Jeppe Bruus, so I suggest we move on to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427160944	Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the Danish People's Party for presenting this resolution, which is, after all, about a strange phenomenon, to say the least, in which very young women often fall in love with life-time murderers, usually female murderers. Somewhere you might wonder why these girls are not getting any psychiatric assistance, because it is obvious that they need it. I believe that most people in this House can understand the outrage expressed in the motion for a resolution, and I also agree with the authors of the motion that, above all, the survivors of the victims must feel as a mockery that those who have committed the worst atrocities against their allegiances can live a life of dating, togetherness and even an increase in the family from within the prison. It's very hard to see the reasonableness of it. As I understand it, the motion for a resolution is partly a re-submission of a similar proposal on which my good colleague Preben Bang Henriksen was the rapporteur at the time, and when you read the debate from then on, you can see that the former Minister of Justice, Søren Pape Poulsen, would launch an investigation into what could be done to limit the visits of people sentenced to life in prison. As we could hear from the Minister for Justice, this is a job that he has taken over and will now do his part to complete. We're waiting for that in suspense. There are about 25 people with a life sentence around Danish prisons and, as the Minister for Justice has pointed out, there are also prisons condemned, how much of the same is true. It is, for example. A Peter Lundin and a Peter Madsen. Although one might wish in one's quiet mind that they never came out again, we do not have American conditions at home. Life sentences do not, at least not as a starting point, serve until they die, but 16-17 years and in some cases longer. We must, of course, be aware that when they come out, they should not, if I may say so, continue where they left off, and that is why we need to look at the proposal in a context, because it cannot be completely rejected that there could be some kind of rehabilitation effect if you have contact with someone outside the prison that you might not already know. It could be a priest, or I don't know. However, as I said before, we are very happy to take the debate again. We are relatively positive about the proposal, and then we wait and see what the investigation from the Ministry of Justice says. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427161237	You're welcome. There is no brief comment to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, so we move on to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427161250	Thank you. I have to say that I can basically understand where the proposers' intention with the resolution comes from. I also feel very disgusted at some of the deeds, such as: Lundin and Peter Madsen have committed, and I cannot help feeling within myself that I hope they will never be released again. I can simply understand how insulting it is when television can roll up their love relationship to the open screen. I am wondering at all how it is possible for television to come out of it. It must be unnecessarily hurtful to the bereaved, and I remember that years ago we made rules which limited the possibility of inmates participating on television. That is why I am going to ask in committee how this can be done if we now have these rules. In the SF we cannot support the proposal as it stands here. After all, the proposal mentions Peter Lundin and Peter Madsen, who have both committed extremely monstrous murders but who have been able to date women behind bars outside the walls. Lundin, who by the way has a different name today, has been married up to several times and has had children again. In those cases, one can be outraged that they can just go on dating, especially because of the victims who may never have moved on and come across the fact that their loved ones were murdered. But I think it's a little bit difficult to set a limit to the love of the prison walls. When you have the right to visit, I don't think we can decide that you can't have a wife or a girlfriend. But perhaps we should look at tightening the rules so that it is only one person. As I understand it, some of these types fall into correspondence with many different people. Perhaps some kind of waiting period should also be introduced, so you may have to write together at least a year before you can see it. In this way, I think we can give some of these women a period of reflection as to whether that is really what they want to do. I find it very difficult to understand that they want to do so. I can read that the former Minister of Justice wanted to investigate the case. I don't know how it ended, but maybe we can try to figure that out. At any rate, we know that the Prisons Association has warned against this, and it is they who face the consequences of politicians' choices. It certainly does mean that you have to think before you go exactly that way. And then there is the relationship with conventions and prison rules and other things. I must also admit that I think there may be some protection concerns to take to the women who swirl into the networks of these manipulative types. Without being a psychologist or a psychiatrist, I would say that some of them at least have very severe personality disorders, and if it goes and becomes a harmful relationship, and there is a risk of that when you look at some of these love stories, I think that we have some sort of obligation to offer help and intervene. Some of these women have been very young, and I think that at least they need at least to equip the prison officers with some skills to spot these women and then step in. I do not wish to deny that we must at least have a tool so that we can intervene here. It is clear that we must do something. Here we have to see what the Minister comes up with. It is not certain that we will agree entirely on all the tools. We can agree that we don't like people like Lundin and Madsen, but when we make rules for them, we also make rules for other life-timers who may in principle have been convicted of quite different things. We also know that having relationships means something. This is one of the best ways to get back to society and turn your back on crime. So let's wait and see what the Minister of Justice is coming up with. As the proposal stands here, I think it is going too far, but we say yes to some wise restrictions. So we're going to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427161723	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. That is why we shall move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427161753	Thank you for the floor. I understand that many people are outraged that someone can fall in love with a person who is doomed to life. I also bear that outrage myself. It's not attractive to commit serious crime, it's dumb. The fact that intimate relations arise between a life sentence and a person outside the prison is therefore quite incomprehensible to me, and I do not understand why it is interesting for the media when two people start a relationship. A lot of people do that every day. Having said that, we in the Radical Left do not believe that prison officers should also have the character of being dating officers to check whether letters or visits are dating or not. There's gotta be a limit. If, for that matter, two or more parties comply with the rules governing personal relationships such as sexually low age, consent and other matters, then we see no reason why a hard-pressed corps of prison officers should also be dating officers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427161934	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There is a brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427161939	Thank you. Now we have talked a lot about grooming, that is, where adults groom children and young people into a sexual relationship. Finally, it may appear voluntarily, but we all know that it is not voluntary because someone has been sitting there manipulating. These people we're talking about, these men we're talking about, they've turned out to be pretty well-managed in manipulating others. And there are also examples that it has been a 17-year-old girl who has been groomed into such a relationship. And now the radical rapporteur says that if only the age of sex is fulfilled. Does Radicals really think it's okay for a 15-year-old girl to be groomed into a relationship with a life sentence, and then it develops sexually? Well, that's kind of how it can be today. Is that really supposed to be legal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162040	I think it would be wrong for a 15-year-old to be groomed into a prison for a life sentence. I would think that was totally, completely wrong. That is why I also stressed in my rapporteur's speech that, if illegal acts are committed in the matter, then of course it should not take place. Unfortunately, grooming is not illegal as it is today, and the Radical Left would like it to be. That is why, last year, we asked the Minister for Justice to clarify the rules that apply, among other things. Norway and Sweden, where there are rules for grooming. The Radical Left also thinks it should be there in Denmark, so I am pleased if the question put by the questioner is to be understood as meaning that the Socialists will support the Radical Left in that we should have rules for grooming.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162126	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162128	At least we're looking into it. Grooming is illegal today, and I think we also agree on that in relation to the criminal code. It is true that it is not called grooming in an independent paragraph, but committing grooming is illegal. Then let me ask you another way. There may be a 17-year-old girl who, of her own interest, finds the attention of a convicted murderer who is doomed to life or in custody, and she can take the initiative herself. In this way she gets thrown into this fight, knowing and seeing from the outside that it's a very, very sensitive subject. And she's doing it because she comes across this profile online or she sees it in the media or other things. Mr. Kristian Hegaard and the Radicals say that it is fine, bearing in mind that the inmate also has the right to engage in social dealings with young girls, and that the prison officers should not be dating officers, as the Radicals say?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162228	The questioner asked me before whether the Radical Left did not want grooming to be illegal and not to take place. I said yes to that. The questioner said, unfortunately, in his follow-up question, that the Socialists would only be involved in investigating whether grooming is illegal. I find that deeply regrettable. I think it should be illegal, just as there are clear legislative conditions for it in Sweden and Norway. The Minister for Justice has explained this very well in an answer to me, that is, what it might look like. The Radical Left could see itself in the fact that we made legislation of this kind. We ourselves have come out to suggest this, so we think it is the right way to go, because grooming is totally unacceptable, even when it is done in relation to a life sentence and a vulnerable girl outside the prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162315	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162317	Thank you. I am just a little puzzled by the radical rapporteur here. You get a punishment, a life sentence, because you have committed something completely unforgivable in Danish society. Then the Radical Left here says that we cannot deal with what is happening in prisons. We don't have crews and so on. etc. But isn't the situation the case that the citizens of Denmark are being violated by their legal awareness when someone who has committed something as disgusting as for example. Peter Madsen has, can just continue when he goes to prison, as if nothing has happened? He can just keep dating. He knows all kinds of things. The goal of his being punished was precisely that he should not be able to do so. Does the Radical Left not see that there is a problem at all? Are you simply living in another world where you have not seen that it violates the people's right to be aware of what is happening today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162419	The questioner and I share the complete outrage, and I would just like to say to the questioner that I did not say at any time in my rapporteur's speech that we should just pretend nothing about what is going on in prisons. We have to do that to a great extent. We must then ensure that those who are inmates do not flee and so on. So, of course, we need to get our hands on what's going on in the prisons. Where we just believe that we do not find any further reason, prison officers are so hard pressed that they should not also be dating officers, that is to say they should not also assess whether letters or visits have a dating content or some other content.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162457	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162458	I heard that, sir. Kristian Hegaard said, but then the consequence is that you give up. Then the consequence is that they say that we are not going to do anything about it. So there are some of us here who say that it is so insulting to the public's sense of justice that we have to do something about it. And by the way, we need to have more prison officers, which can make you have respect as an inmate, in relation to what is going on in a prison. It's the employees who have to decide this. It's not the inmates. That is what I really want to see. What's sir? Kristian Hegaard's answer to the Danes, who believe that it is deeply offensive to the right conscience when life sentences date in prisons?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162548	I very much agree with what the questioner said about the conditions for prison officers. It is really hard, and that is why I think the questioner should listen a little to the prison officers who are in relation to what they are saying. I have not heard that this resolution is something they wanted, that is to say that it should go in this direction, precisely because it is a matter of prison officers who must exercise their core professional skills and not necessarily be dating officers. So I agree that conditions need to be improved for prison officers, and that is why I believe that we should first and foremost listen to those who are employed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162620	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no more brief comments. That is why we are moving on to the next rapporteur, and this is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten-De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162640	When you are sentenced to life imprisonment, you have undoubtedly committed a very serious crime. These are people who have committed things that are worse than most of us can imagine. I understand from the comments on this motion for a resolution that the authors of the motion for a resolution want it to have tangible consequences when they have committed such serious crimes that it can lead to a life sentence. I agree with that, of course, that it must have tangible consequences when you commit a crime. That's exactly why you go to jail. I do not know whether the authors of the motion have themselves considered what it is like to be in prison, but I can say on my own behalf that I cannot imagine that it is particularly nice to be in prison. If you even know that you have to sit there for really, really, very many years, I do not think it will be more pleasant from that thought. In other words, being in prison for life is a noticeable consequence. Whatever the circumstances in which you are sitting, your freedom of movement is limited from the outset, and I do not think we can come up with a more tangible consequence without us starting to violate human rights. So, although I know that the authors of the motion do not believe that human rights should be protected, I cannot say yet again that we believe this to be the case in the Enhedslisten. Because if we do not have human rights, we will find ourselves in a situation where we start treating other people in a way that we, as a democratic society, cannot rightly do. Instead, we start reminding of dictatorships, with which I very much do not see Denmark being compared. So, in addition to the fact that I believe it must be contrary to human rights to introduce such a proposal here, which comes from the authors of the motion for a resolution, I also think that there are other good reasons why this proposal is a really bad idea. We've got a lot of pressure on criminal justice. It has been difficult to maintain prison officers and it is even harder to recruit new ones. One of the things that makes the situation worse when the prisons are understaffed is that the time for rehabilitation work is becoming less and less. This means that the safety risk for employees is increasing. I know that the proposers here believe that stricter penalties and worse conditions will bring a better world, but that is just not quite how it works. It does not do anything in general about the amount of crime in our society, and then it also affects the criminal services staff involved in the inmates. When the Prison Association is out to say that the safety valve there is, in relation to the fact that the prisoners can have the shadow of family life, helps to ensure that the inmates do not pose a safety risk to the employees, I think that we should really listen to the Prison League and ensure that the prisoners have just a small degree of family life. That is why the Enhedslisten cannot, surprisingly, support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162955	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427162958	I was just a little surprised to hear the word dictatorship in this context. I would really like to hear what the comparison is actually in relation to it. That's one thing. The second is that you get the impression that the dating going on is actually okay, because somehow it's a kind of valve for these inmates. And when they can get some of it out of their way, they're a little more comfy. I think that is actually part of the problem, namely that there is such a view that it is perhaps very good that some young girls can be released, because then they may be a little more compassionate in prison. And with that logic, I think we take more account of the perpetrator, the prisoner, and the conditions around it than we take to the young people who are invited into this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163057	Well, I think sir... Jeppe Bruus puts words in my mouth, which I simply have not said. I didn't say at any time that this is about having a drain on some young girls. What I said, and as the Prison Association says, it is good for the inmates to have a little bit of family life. I think we should listen to that. So that's one thing. The second is the issue of dictatorships. But when we break human rights, I think that we are moving to a place where we should not be, and I think that would be a violation of human rights. If you go in and look at various judgments that have been made at the Court of Human Rights about the situation of the inmates, this would actually be a breach. That is what is sometimes a little annoying about rights, namely that they apply to all of us, including those we do not like.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163146	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163147	Thank you. Someone turned off the microphone, speaking of which. But it is quite right that those rights apply to all of us, and that is also why, as the Minister for Justice said, this must, of course, take place within the conventions. And there is also a right to actually have some kind of family life, or at least some kind of association that you see with. And I certainly don't imagine we're completely cutting it off so you can't be seen with anyone. But what we're talking about here is something else. We are talking about a person gallery that tours around and that this is almost a dating centre where, with all sorts of forgeries, you can maintain a very socially rich life even for some. That seems problematic to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163235	I can only add that we in the Enhedslisten do not regard our criminal services as a dating centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163242	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163244	Now we talk a lot about the life prisoners and the relatives, but there are some we may not have talked about so much, and these are the confused young girls who, for some strange reason, fall in love with a woman killer. Isn't it doing them a disservice to let them live out their crazy fantasies and visit these prisoners of life in prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163313	I'd like to say to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, that, unfortunately, we sometimes see women fall in love with men, to say the least, stupid men. I also find it very difficult to understand the women who have gone to Syria to fight side by side with the Islamic State or who have married someone who does. I can't understand that at all. But that doesn't change the fact that what we're discussing here is rights. Well, if we could make a law that said that men should stop being stupid, then I should be the first to vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163342	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163343	I assume that this also means that women should not be stupid either. Because the behavior in which you may waste years of your youth's life on a completely hopeless affair with a lifetime inmate cannot possibly do anything good for anyone. And, of course, we are doing what we can to prevent young girls and young men, for example, from going to Syria and joining the Islamic State. But we're kind of condoning the fact that young girls visit life-timers. It is a phenomenon that exists not only in Denmark but also around the world. Isn't it a lack of help for these girls just to say that well that's just fine, go with you, and maybe you can change him, and that he basically has something good beating inside his heart? What we see happening is completely warped.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163443	It is clear that the Enhedslisten could never propose a law that was sexist, I would say to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. So don't worry. If we could make a law that said to stop being stupid, then of course it should also apply to women. To answer the question, I do not think that my argument against this motion for a resolution is a request at all. And I'm gonna say that if I was close to a person who came out on this, I'd say first of all, are you sure that's a good idea? I just don't think we can legislate out of the problem that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is leaving. I think it's something else that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163518	Now we just had some technical problems before. Was there anyone else who wanted the word and who went in the bend when we updated? I think I saw that. Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163529	I am rather stunned that Enhedslisten will not support a proposal like this, because it is dual. It is, after all, a question of making a proposal which we consider to be in very great agreement with the public's awareness of the law. You know, you're deeply outraged that these life sentences, even though they have committed the worst crimes, continue in prison as if nothing had happened. But you can say that's one thing. Something else is the women, the very young girls, who are misguided by people like Peter Madsen or Peter Lundin, or whatever else they are called and who get into something really bad, get into trouble. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen mentioned it a little bit. Does the Enhedslisten have no concern at all for the girls and the women who get into this or any assessment of what it takes to help them? It is not enough for Mrs Rosa Lund to talk to them. I don't think Mrs. Rosa Lund is going to talk to all those people it's about here. Something more has to happen than that. Perhaps they can also contribute to escape attempts and the like. There's plenty of manipulative stuff that's been running over these girls. What does Enhedslisten say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163642	But Mr. Peter Skaarup is right. Unfortunately, there are many examples of people manipulating other people into doing something that is not appropriate for them. I just do not think that, in this situation, we can legislate out of it, and I would also like to stress again that I do not see it as a bathing holiday to be in prison. Sir. Peter Skaarup makes it sound like you can just continue your life normally when you're doomed to life. You can't do that. That is a slightly wrong view, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163714	The questioner? No. There will then be no further brief comments on Mrs Rosa Lund, and we can move on to Mr Lund's report. Mads Andersen of the Conservative People's Party, who now gets the floor from Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163733	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the proposal. Thank you to the rapporteurs for an incredibly exciting debate, which seems to have been passed on almost to the committee. I can tell you that in the Conservative People's Party, of course, we can easily understand if it seems strange to the public that, as a life sentence, you can date and get a new girlfriend or get married in prison or have relationships in a similar way. At the same time, I can also say that we fully share Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's concern about the people on the other side of the walls who unfortunately spend too much time on these inmates and find it exciting. It can be said that in Denmark, fortunately, only relatively few are convicted each year, who are imprisoned for life. When you are sentenced to life imprisonment, you have been given the most severe punishment in society. You have the word of the court that you have earned it, and we certainly think you have. But having said that, it is also the case that inmates have the opportunity to have visits and to have relationships with others. It can be different types of treatment, a priest, family members, or a boyfriend or spouse. There, too, we think it is difficult for us just to go in and assess and decide whether there are special groups of inmates who should be allowed to do so and others who should not be allowed to do so. So I also think that we are starting to talk a little forward to finding some sort of solution that lies between what we have today and the proposal here from the Danish People's Party, which actually contains a lot of very good intentions. So we are actually positive about further discussions and think that we will take it when we get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163911	Thank you very much, and there are no brief remarks to Mr. Mads Andersen. That is why we can move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427163927	I would like to thank the DF for a motion for a resolution which deals with something that is so macabre that, on the one hand, you think: can you do that? And on the other hand, you think, can you not? The horrifying thing is that we have some people sitting there who, for a number of years, have somehow become reality stars and idols for a grouping in our society: on the one hand, some women who think these men are very attractive, on the other hand, and, at worst, some young men who might look up to these men who sit on life for some bestiality crimes that you hope will never awaken to inspiration elsewhere. From this point of view, of course, it is quite natural and reasonable to bring it here if we are to protect women and we have to take care of legal certainty and, above all, the sense of justice, and if we are to try to prevent in some way so much hype from these people among other young people who may have difficult social and mental relationships with them from home that they might be able to walk in their footsteps, because now it is so interesting that they can even score ladies in a row. As an employee of our secretariat said, they have more time to date than the rest of us do. That is a cynical comment, but it is, in fact, reality. In that light, we're open to look at this. We are pleased that the government is involving a larger group, so we are also bringing with us those who are doomed. They are, of course, a more varied group, and there are other considerations here too, but we look forward to this becoming a real proposal from the government and back up the motion for a resolution. We have no trouble both supporting the resolution and wishing to support a possible legislative proposal when it comes. So thank you for the proposal from DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427164140	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427164154	Thank you. In the series of resolutions from the Danish People's Party to tell the public that the Danish People's Party is really very much against crime, we have come to the conclusion that the Danish People's Party is very much opposed to the crime committed by Peter Madsen and Peter Lundin. So are we. Does this mean that this is a good resolution? I think that is more doubtful. Also we look with very, very great wonder that there are women in Danish society who see criminals who have committed macabre homicide crimes, and think: That's how I should score, that's how I should date, that's how I should marry, that's how one should be the father of my children. After all, it is not because Peter Madsen or Peter Lundin in themselves are particularly interesting people. What makes them interesting in the eyes of these women is that they have committed these crimes and have gone to prison for them. This is what triggers women's desire to deal with them. One can only strongly reject this: that those who commit such crimes should be persons who are found attractive in romantic contexts. On the contrary, you should stay away from them. That is why I think we need to have a debate in Danish society about what should happen, what should be done with the women who choose to date or start boyfriend relationships or marriages with such men. What has gone wrong for them, and what can we do to bring them on the right path? That is the real question that needs to be asked here. I do not think that the real question is whether we should invent rules that people sentenced to life must not have relations outside prison, because, as has been pointed out earlier, life sentences in Denmark are not doomed to spend their whole life, and at some point they will come out, unless they are sentenced to detention, because then it is possible that they will not come out again. But life sentences come back out at some point. And what we have to do while they're in prison is try to make sure that when they get back out, they're some other people who don't commit the same kind of crimes that got them in prison in the first place. I do not think it is conducive to creating mentally healthier people that we prohibit them from having relations with people outside prison. And I do not understand how to do this in practice, because some people come into prison with already established relationships. And should that I think there are too many questions here, and I think this is attacking the wrong thing. What it should be attacking is: what is it with these women, and why are they doing this, and how can we reprove these women? So, as it stands here, we will not support the motion for a resolution. We are eagerly looking forward to the Minister of Justice finding out whether something can be done in this area of a more broad nature, which can be characterised as improvements. And if that is the case, we will support it. But the motion for a resolution here seems to us to be too strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427164559	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. That brings us directly to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427164619	I would like to thank you for the debate here to the parties of the Danish Parliament. My impression is that there are opportunities in this proposal. The government is relatively positive. We have some agreement from the Left and Conservative and New Citizens in some circumstances, and then the Danish People's Party has put forward the proposal, so we are also in favour. Then there are quite a few parties that are not really involved or sceptical, but all in all it is a nicely large majority. There is a will for this proposal, and we are satisfied with that in the Danish People's Party. However, we are of the opinion that this should be done quickly, because it is offensive to the legal conscience when watching broadcasts, for example. where life sentences continue to date and continue, as if nothing has happened, even though they have been severely punished. The reason for this is that the life sentence is a very special kind of prisoner. These are prisoners who have committed some of the most blunt crimes. That is to say, they have, as a starting point, been punished, which means that they will be in prison for the rest of their lives because they have done something as crazy as they have. Unfortunately, there have been some that have been mentioned by several speakers. Peter Madsen, Uboatsmadsen, Peter Lundin, Marcel Lychau Hansen, Amagermanen, who are the most well-known prisoners of life we know at the moment, but there are quite a few others that we do not know the names of to the same extent, but who do some of the same things, is our assessment in the Danish People's Party. These are some people who, as I said, have committed serious crimes, crazy crimes and are not going to be free again. Therefore, they must have a very, very emotional punishment. They're not crazy at the moment, and that means they were in their right mind. So they have done what they did deliberately. At the same time, these types have very different characteristics, some have psychopathic tendencies, and therefore they can be very dangerous to the environment, and therefore they can also be very dangerous in new situations, in different situations, which they then try to initiate with, for example, dating. We must ensure that as a society we can guard against it, and this applies both as we want it here in the Danish People's Party in relation to stopping the traffic of dating from prisons, but it is also true that we must help the girls and the women who have got into trouble because of it. It is difficult to assess what may be at stake, but it may be a fascination on the part of some women, which means that they contact life-time sentenced people who are known from television or the media or whatever it is, and then they start a relationship with the people concerned. They become boyfriends, they may marry them and they have children with them, and when that happens, that is where we, as a society, have to stop, and it should be relatively soon in the view of the Danish People's Party. When we now sign life sentences for these misdeeds, we should not run around in prison with such a little lovingly in love smile on our lips, for now love has been found outside the walls, while the victims must continue to try to get over what they have been subjected to, with the pain that it means created because something has happened to their loved ones. With a marriage mate for these prisoners of life there also follows privileges during imprisonment, we should remember that, and that is not the intention of giving a life sentence. After all, it is not the intention of a life sentence that new privileges should be given when you are in prison. It is contrary for us in the Danish People's Party to any common sense for the sense of justice, when you can see that Peter Lundin, for example, is called something else now, which some have mentioned during the debate here, has a child with a woman he has met while he has been imprisoned after he has been convicted of killing three people, or when you read that Peter Madsen has married after he split Kim Wall into the submarine. So very briefly: Life sentences are serious judgments, and with serious judgments it is not intended to sweeten life by dating all the people from outside and getting married and having children etc. A life sentence is a punishment for something very serious that has been done, and that is precisely why the Danish People's Party has put forward this proposal, in other words to put an end to the daily lives of these crazy people. Of course, the relations they have before they committed their crimes they can keep, the treatment they need to be through, if they need to, they can of course keep, but new relations we say no to, and I hope we can gain support for this proposal in the long term, which I sense in the mood here in the Parliamentary Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427165142	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427165145	The rapporteur said in his speech that dating in prisons should not take place at all, and that is why I should like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that if it were up to the Danish People's Party, it should not just apply to life sentences, but apply to everyone. And I would also like to ask: what impression does the rapporteur have that those who work on this, i.e. those who are in prison as prison officers through the prison association, cannot recommend going this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427165215	It can be said that the difference between the life sentence and, incidentally, also the prison sentence for an indefinite period and others condemned is that one does not think that they are going back into society. That is certainly not the intention of the Danish People's Party. Lifetime is lifetime, and imprisonment for an indefinite period, yes, it is imprisonment for an indefinite period, and therefore one should not be able to initiate new relationships and dates in all kinds of places so it must be. Then there's consideration for the employees. Well, there's plenty of need for us to have more prison officials, for them to get better education and for them to have a better working environment. I think that some of the cases we have witnessed here recently have shown that this is what is needed, and we must stand together to create this, because we must protect employees from inmates. We must ensure that it is the employees and managers of the prisons who decide, and not the inmates, who can make special demands and force the employees to meet the special requirements. So we are on the side of the prison officers in the Danish People's Party, and we will also do so in the autumn when we are negotiating the agreement on the Department of Criminal Services, where I hope we can stand together to ensure that there are some better conditions and some more employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427165320	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427165321	It is good to hear that we are all on the side of the prison officers, and it is also good to hear that we all take a strong and strong stand against the life sentence. There can be no two opinions on that. However, I think it is remarkable that some people are trying to extend the concept of a sense of justice in this debate. Normally when we talk about a sense of justice, we talk about the length of sentences and so on, but now it is also important to date or not date. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur does not also recognise that part of the sense of justice of a great many people may also be that we should not interfere at all; that is, why on earth should the state restrict what is going on in relations between people, as long as they are going on in legislation, think many people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427165406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427165408	Well, that is actually very good proof in this debate of why there are very, very large differences between the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party, because in DF we are really concerned that the Danes can see that when there is a punishment, that is, when you go to life imprisonment and have done such crazy things as for example. Peter Madsen, you shouldn't be able to act like you're a free man. That is what the citizens see when they date to the right and to the left and, moreover, force these women into misfortune; that is what you see as a citizen. Therefore, it is also important for the court-conscious that it is a sensitive punishment, and that it is not just as if life goes on as if nothing had happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427165452	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There are no more brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. If none of you object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427165515	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427165535	Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising a debate on an important subject. How should we, as a society, react when people living in this country are working against our values for religious reasons? We have built our society on good values such as freedom and equality. We decide for ourselves how we will live our lives, of course within the framework of the law, which education we will take, whom we will marry, and whom we may divorce again. It's a self-evident right for most of us. Unfortunately, we have to note that there are environments in Denmark where women in particular are subjected to negative social control and are subjected to coercion. Therefore, there can be no doubt that the government shares the ambition to overcome social control in such a way that a number of initiatives have already been taken in this area. Earlier this year, Parliament adopted the Government's proposal to take action against social control, including: We are sending a clear signal that negative social control is a criminal offence. This follows from the reference we made to negative social control in the penal code's provision on psychological violence. In addition, we have criminalised religious marriages for persons under the age of 18, and we have allowed the authorities to withdraw or refuse to issue passports to a child if there is reason to believe that the child is being sent out of the country to enter into marriage. The new legislation also means that maintaining a person in forced marriage is now being punished by up to four years in prison, and at the same time we have made it a criminal offence to support mental violence or religious marriages with minors as part of religious training. The government wants foreigners who are guilty of negative social control to be expelled from Denmark. We do not want that behaviour in our free society, and that is why we have tightened up the rules on expulsion. The sharpening effect is that foreigners who are convicted of having maintained another person in forced marriage, sanctioned psychic violence or a religious marriage with a minor can be expelled from the country, no matter how long they have been in Denmark, of course within the framework of our international obligations. Finally, on 25 January this year the Government, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have reached a political agreement on social control. The agreement translates 40 million. DKK allocated to the Finance Act in the period 2021-2024, i.e. 10 million. kr. a year. The money must include: go to train professionals, job centre employees, teachers, educators and key civil society actors so that they are prepared to track down, prevent and manage possible cases of social control. Last I would like to mention the agreement on the police and prosecution economy for 2021-2020. As you know, it was concluded shortly before Christmas with a very broad parliamentary and party majority. With the agreement, we are strengthening our efforts, among other things. victims of violence in close relationships, rape, stalking and so-called honour-related crimes, including crimes related to negative social control. Among other things: we agreed that in all police circles specialised teams should be set up to deal with cases of violence in close relationships and honour-related crimes. With the motion for a resolution we have here, the proposers propose that before the end of this year the government should draw up a legislative proposal to ensure that anonymous notifications can be made by means of social checks in the future. In this connection, I would like to point out that the police can already be tipped off if they are aware of something they think the police should know about. In this context, you can choose not to give your name and contact details. The police can be tipped through the police's self-service solution, which can be accessed through the police website. However, "tip police' is not considered to be a notification. In the agreement on the police and prosecution economy, which I mentioned earlier, we also agree to examine the extent of the reasons why some citizens, such as young victims of partner violence, fail to report crime. And in this context we will also look at that we have agreed on the advantages and disadvantages of anonymous reviews. Among other things: we need to clarify the difficult legal considerations raised by the question of anonymous notifications. We have therefore agreed precisely with the multiannual agreement that over the coming years we will have to look at the issue of anonymous notifications. It is by its very nature that the government is prepared to propose legislative changes in this area, if there are grounds for doing so. However, this must be done on the right basis, and we are here in an area where we have to weigh up some very fundamental principles of legal certainty against each other. It's not an area where we can make snapshot solutions. In relation to the rules on anonymous notifications, there needs to be a balance in which, on the one hand, we protect witnesses and people who report crimes, because we need to be able to feel quite comfortable going to the police, for example. If you are in a violent relationship, while on the other hand we have to say that there is also a need to take legal certainty into account in relation to the person being accused, because criminal proceedings rarely stop at the time of the notification. And it is important for the defendants to have an effective defense to know the identity of the witnesses. We do not know whether there is anything else hidden under the charge, such as unfriendliness, a conspiracy, an economic affair or anything else, and the defendant will not be able to draw attention to this if the witness is anonymous. However, I would like to make it clear that I have the approach that, if there are good proposals in this area, we need to consider them. I would also like to put forward legislative proposals if there is any reason to do so. I assume that the Danish People's Party, which is one of the parties to the multi-year agreement, also supports the fact that we are conducting an investigation into the advantages and disadvantages of anonymous notifications, as we agreed before we decide on changes to the law, so that we do not rush through anything by the end of the year. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution, but we share the ambition of the proposers to look at the need for anonymous notifications in matters of social control, and if the forthcoming study shows that there is a basis for this, we are prepared to propose necessary legislative changes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427170227	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427170232	Thank you. I have some questions for the Minister of Justice. Despite the political agreement that has been reached, it is the case that experts in this area say that there are some gigantic dark figures, that is, figures for citizens who get stuck in this way, subjected to social control in a ghetto area where Muslim immigrants are exerting very heavy pressure on the individual. There are many people who are exposed to this and who dare not stand up, and that is why I want to ask the government what the government will do about it. Because it's like the raw material we have, and when we make this proposal for anonymous reviews, not anonymous tips, but reviews, it's of course, for us to break up these patterns that are in parallel societies. In the bermuda triangle between the imam, the gangs, the parents and the environment, it is hard to come forward and make a review against all those who are close to you. Nevertheless, there are women who are forced into marriage, forced into relationships or forced away from relationships and where it is totally unreasonable. So what is the government going to do more? For we believe in the Danish People's Party that there is a need to do more. Otherwise, we won't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427170348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427170349	Well, that's what we believe, and that was one of them. also why we made the agreement that I mentioned with the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative to be better at detecting and preventing and dealing with possible cases of social control. I also think that we need to respect the fact that anonymous notifications may, of course, have some legal problems, for example. If a complaint is filed because you're in a fight. And there is not much to be gained from the fact that you can file an anonymous notification, but that, if the matter is going to slip, you have to come forward anyway, because then your identity is exposed. That is why we need to consider how to overcome that problem. Let us take an example, as Mr. Naser Khader has sometimes produced, with some young boys who dare not report crimes they have been subjected to. If they make a complaint, but subsequently have to testify against the perpetrator in court, they are exposed, and therefore there are some considerations that we need to get through before one can just say that anonymous reviews are the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427170456	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427170458	Well, of course there are some considerations about this. But we must also say that when, as members of parliament, we get reports from citizens who say that they really want to report different things about exactly these things with social control, where a group of Muslim gang members have forced them to various things and matters, but where they do not dare, because they have to deliver name, address, residence etc. when they submit the notification, we have a problem; then we have a problem. And it's not really about frivolities and small and big disputes. It is, after all, a question of pure threats, where one is threatened with silence and where one simply does not dare, and that is where we would like to get hold of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427170543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427170544	But I agree with that issue. In other words, I myself have also been presented with examples of a type of behaviour which we absolutely must counter. I am just saying that perhaps it is not so easy to resolve it by saying that we just need anonymous notifications, because there are some considerations that follow on from it. On the one hand, there is the question of whether anonymity can really be maintained, and on the other hand, if you can imagine that false weights will be placed in some form if you can make anonymous reviews. So it's more about getting past the complications that there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427170618	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427170636	Thank you. We have very, very major problems with social control and, in particular, in some immigrant environments, we have massive problems. I think there is a tendency in the debate to present young people in such a way that if you come with an immigrant background, speak fluently Danish, have an education, have a job, then you are per. definition well integrated. Unfortunately, we have some young women who actually have a very good education, have a job, still be subject to social control, some family patterns, some social patterns that make it impossible to move freely, that one does not have the right to self-determination over one's own life. It fills too little in our debate, and I think we need to get even deeper into that issue and get it on the table, because it is really a letter of freedom for these young women, who are also young men under social control, said for the sake of good order. But when I say it is a letter of freedom, it must apply to everyone, and so it must also apply to some of the young people who grow up with a different cultural and religious background, which unfortunately puts some restrictions on them. That is why it is good that it also filled something in our police agreement, where a very, very broad circle of the parties of the Folketing agreed that we should do something about it. The Minister for Justice has already outlined a number of initiatives that we have taken after we came to the government almost two years ago. And that is why it is good that we follow up on the work of the police agreement. Now the Danish People's Party has chosen to table a motion for a resolution which, it must be said, contains part of what we agreed jointly in the police agreement. And in this way, we could get many good motions for resolutions under consideration here in the Assembly, because this is a really good police agreement. And this is just an opportunity to celebrate it and then to note that we cannot support the resolution, but we welcome the fact that, in terms of content, we are covered in relation to the work and agreement we reached before Christmas. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427170919	You're welcome. There is no brief comment to Mr. Jeppe Bruus. That's why we're gonna go over to mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427170937	Thank you to the President of the Enhedslisten... the Red Greens. Social control is a frightening phenomenon which, unfortunately, we must recognise is quite widespread. Unfortunately, it is particularly so in the immigrant environments. And as the authors of the motion for a resolution quite wisely write in their comments on the motion for a resolution, the cases we are aware of are probably only the tip of the iceberg. There is, in all probability, an entire undergrowth of glaring examples that never gets to public knowledge. Yet, despite that, we have witnessed countless examples of how particularly women are subjected to social control in a way that can best be described as medieval. We have been able to read about women who have been denied divorces by imams and who are therefore held in violent marriages contrary to their will. And honestly, in Denmark, of course, it should never be an imam in Vollsmose that decides who to live with. So although we know only about the tip of the iceberg, there are many examples of social control. Whether it is immigrant women who are not allowed to go to the job centre alone without their husband; whether it is young women who are forced to marry a man they have never chosen; or whether it is the homosexual immigrant boy who is not allowed to hold hands with her boyfriend on the street; it is all totally unacceptable. We in the Left believe that social control must be severely reduced, even harder than it is today. For social control is basically a restriction of personal freedom, which is a core value for us. That is why we have put forward a large number of proposals to strengthen the fight against social control, for example to tighten up the law so that negative social control becomes an aggravating factor in infringements, a little as is known from hate crimes. That is why we are also in favour of this proposal. We are, although we recognise the legal challenges of being able to report something anonymous. For basically, it is a healthy principle that you stand by the reviews you make. But here we also recognise that, when it comes to social control, the principles are, of course, somewhat challenged, because it is in the very concept of social control that we control the actions of other people, including who they report. That is why we are prepared to enter into a discussion on how to increase security in the notification of social controls. Perhaps you should even make a completely new model of how to review social control, because I think most people can understand that as a victim it can be quite difficult and quite insecure to report the perpetrator, who is often someone in the close circle. It can be a marriage mate, it can be a family, it can be close acquaintances. So we can support the motion for a resolution, but we can also hear from the Minister that the government cannot. That is why we could perhaps mingelize it so that it lands in a report that a majority of the Danish Parliament could support. However, we can support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427171259	You're welcome, sir. Morten Dahlin. There are no brief comments, and we are therefore going on to Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427171317	Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the Danish People's Party for presenting the proposal here today. I think we can share an interest in doing something about social control, and I am also very pleased that there is a renewed focus on it. We have, of course, made several proposals in the SF over the years in this area and, most recently, we have also had a proposal to look at social control as psychological violence. And that was also included in the police settlement, and I think that we will see a proposal on it shortly. There is no doubt that social control is monstrous, it is terrible and that it puts some deep scars in those women and men, it must be said, it is going to hurt. There may be women with minority backgrounds, men with minority backgrounds, young and old, who simply are not allowed to live the life they want, because darkened forces think that life may be too Danish. They are exposed to threats, psychological violence, one-way tickets to foreign countries where they are trapped. There are numerous examples that we in Denmark have not had the necessary tools to counter social control, and every day we do not find a solution to it, we fail some deeply vulnerable people. Moreover, this applies not only to environments with a minority background, but also to extreme Christian environments where there can be extreme social control. Both are harmful. I can only doubt whether this proposal is one of the necessary tools. Right now, for example, it is. in the case of a child or a young person, to inform the municipality anonymously if one considers that children and young people are subjected to abuse. And then the municipality actually has a duty to act on it. It is an opportunity which I myself have actually made use of a situation in which I was extremely concerned about a child. It was a different situation than social control, but it shows that there is an opportunity to tell the municipality about this and be anonymous and ensure that something happens. So at least we have a set of rules that will help children and young people. One must then just say that, although we have anonymous notifications, this has probably not quite meant that we, either in extreme Christian or Muslim environments, have come to the end that children have not been subjected to, for example, sending on. reeducational journeys, or that they are determined, who they may see, and how they should behave. It will probably take more and more than making anonymous notifications or notifications, and among other things. That is why we have also proposed tools to improve sex education and to prevent, as well as several crisis centers close to the large residential areas at risk and criminalising several different conditions. Personally, I would also like there to be more legal aid to get close to the vulnerable residential areas, because that would mean that some of these people who want out of controlling conditions can get help to get at least a legal overview of the opportunities they have. And, of course, that advice must also be anonymous. When it comes to adults, I think it's a little different. They have choices, and we also have opportunities to help. It's about catching them. And the challenge may be to make the decision to leave a controlling husband. We also see this in ordinary partner violence cases, where it can be extremely difficult to take the step of getting out of the violence and accepting the help and apparatus that actually exists. And that is why an anonymous notification can also be a blow to the air if the right funding options are not available. In addition, I think that one should be very careful about using anonymous reviews in these cases at all. In any case, it should be examined much more closely, and then it should be seen in, I think, the context of anonymous reporting in the whole area of abuse. After all, there is a risk that someone you're mad at will be called into question. And then it can make things worse because control can increase and also the suspicion of people around the exposed, if it is not approached in the right way, and then they end up with the controlling partner. So it may actually be a matter of whether or not one supports the possibility of making anonymous reviews at all. And we in the SF are not so enthusiastic about this, although we agree that social control must be tackled. So that's gonna be a no thank you to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427171831	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427171836	What brings me to a question is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt's statement that this exists in both immigrant and extreme Christian environments, and I wonder whether the SF understands the difference between what is legal and what is illegal, because it is illegal to threaten violence or other illegal things if you do not do as the family says. Even if it is unsympathetic, it is not illegal, for example, for Jehovah's Witnesses. Says: If you leave Jehovah's Witnesses, we will no longer have anything to do with you. Both can be called social control. But it is threatening violence or violence that is illegal, while the other is actually legal. Does the SF understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427171931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427171932	Yes, the SF understands that very well. I am just thinking that we can get into something with elements of coercion, which are also illegal, and that is where I think we can at least risk the existence of conditions where there is enormous pressure on Members and where it can be close to or at least in the border country for illegal coercion. And it is also a form of social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427171958	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427172000	I think that it is extremely unsympathetic if you, for example, in. Jehovah's Witnesses tell children that if you leave Jehovah's Witnesses, we, your parents, will no longer have anything to do with you. It's extremely unsympathetic, but it's not illegal. When Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt says that this is also happening in Christian environments, can the rapporteur give an example of illegal social control in Christian environments in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427172029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427172031	No, I cannot give an immediate example of this, but I think that the challenge is that we do not always get the examples to the surface, and that is one of the problems of social control. This is something that is going on in secret, and I can only have a great deal of doubt as to whether this tool is what can remedy this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427172054	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427172117	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for focusing on negative social control. Negative social control must be combated. No one should be restricted in living a free life. Therefore, in January, the Government, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative concluded an agreement on the issue of the mobilisation of funds from the Finance Act to combat negative social control. Here we strengthened, among other things. the training of front workers who are close in schools and in education to those who may experience negative social control so that it can be traced as early as possible. At the same time, the national task force, which helps to act on specific matters, and we also strengthened the voluntary effort, because there are both voluntary organisations and employees, typically at one's school and education, one can go to, and in many cases anonymously, if one experiences negative social control. From there you can get both help and guidance. Therefore, when you read this specific motion for a resolution on anonymous notifications by social control, you immediately get the idea that, of course, you should be able to do so. But what is more of a matter of principle and which needs to be dealt with here is whether there should be anonymous notifications in criminal proceedings, in this case criminal proceedings relating to negative social controls. Today we have the clear principle that wrongdoers and witnesses are not anonymous, and that is, among other things. because in the course of a trial you must be able to defend yourself against something if you are a potential perpetrator and defendant. And if you do not know what you are defending yourself against, then the trial and legal certainty become somewhat unclear. That is why it is also good that we, together with most parties in the Folketing in connection with the police settlement, have agreed to investigate anonymous reviews further. Perhaps negative social control is a type of crime in which we have to open a door to anonymous notifications if we can at the same time ensure that this is done in a legally sound manner. That is precisely why we will not be supporting this motion for a resolution, but we are certainly in favour of strengthening efforts to combat negative social control, including being able to go to the public with its cause and its experiences, so that we get more people out of negative social control and into a free life with free elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427172432	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. No one has asked for a brief comment, so we can move on to the next rapporteur, and it is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten • De Rød-Greenne, who, incidentally, has no President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427172450	Thank you. It was a big day when Denmark finally got a law that criminalises psychological violence. This is an area which for too many years has had no focus at all. And psychological violence is often linked to negative social control, which is why it was also important for Enhedslisten to have written into the comments to the law that mental violence is therefore also negative social control. That is why we also support the fact that it is now being written into the legislative text and not just in the comments. Unfortunately, negative social control is not just something that exists in minority environments, but we know that it exists particularly in minority environments. Unfortunately, this is something that can affect all parts of society, but I think that in a minority environment there is a need to make a very special effort. In the Enhedslisten, we do not want anyone to be subjected to negative social control. We are opposed to coercion and we are sure that, with a great deal of preventive action, we can work very hard against negative social control, which unfortunately too many women, but also too many young people, are exposed to. It is generally the case of negative social controls that we must ensure that there is support and that we must ensure that there are places where we know we can go if we are exposed to it. And that is why I am very pleased that in the Finance Act we managed to make a small step towards ensuring both that there are places to be protected, but also that the professional staff around young people are actually being trained to spot negative social control so that we can stop it in time. In addition to the fact that we set aside money for a shelter for the protection of young people who belong to a double minority, because unfortunately we know that young people who both have very strong religious parents but are also, for example, religious parents. homosexuals, bisexuals or tranned, are very much subjected to negative social control, so it is also possible to set aside money to do this in-service training. I'm glad. I am also very pleased that the Danish People's Party is addressing the problem of negative social control today. It is very important that, as a victim of a crime, you should be able to feel comfortable by addressing the police. And for that reason, I am also very pleased that in the police conciliation, the first of Enhedslisten, we were given money for further training by officers so that they are better equipped to handle, for example. mental violence and sexual crimes, which are often also a part of negative social control. But I'm afraid I don't think anonymous reports to the police solve anything. Then there is at least something that is completely misunderstood, because if you do not dare to report your own case to the police, you do not dare to report it anonymously. So you'd imagine people reporting that they've been subjected to negative social control anonymously, but are you OK to tell me about it when they're interrogated? I find that hard to see. And I fear, in fact, that the proposals of the Danish People's Party here will make the situation worse. Negative social control often exists in environments where there is a great deal of rumor and rumor, and if you report anonymously, I think that negative social control may even go even harder on the person you already suffer, whether it is a man or a woman or a young person. I fear that this proposal will mean that. So I actually believe that the Danish People's Party's proposals will exacerbate the situation, and none of us are interested in that. I think we need to tackle some other means of combating negative social control, for example. we need to ensure that women who are in Denmark on their husband's residence permit receive their own residence permit so that they do not lose their place of residence when they are divorced from him. We have to, for example. ensure that young people do not lose their residence permit if they are in the unhappy situation, that they are sent on a re-educational journey and therefore can never return because they lose their residence basis, among other things. due to tightenings that the Danish People's Party itself has helped to make. I believe that we should roll back and that we should look at how we can give these young people and women in minority environments more rights so that they can refrain from negative social control. And I very much hope that the Danish People's Party will take part in this, and I can reveal that the Enhedslisten in another parliamentary committee has a proposal on the way to that. So we'll have an opportunity to discuss that. So we cannot support the proposal, but we strongly support the fact that we are now taking and continuing to hold a debate on how to stop negative social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427172937	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427172942	Thank you very much. There is something about the fact that when you on the left encounter some conflicts in the policy you have and the challenges you see in reality, you start to come up with new terms, new names for what you are talking about. The rapporteur mentions minority environments and says that there are some minority environments where we need to do something special in relation to negative social control. Could the rapporteur not be a little more specific about what minority environments the rapporteur is talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173011	My position on that is that it is strongly religious, Islamist environments, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173019	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173021	Now, that was a nice, clear speech. And with that fine, clear speech, I have to ask something: does the rapporteur believe that there will be more or less negative social control in Denmark if more extremely Islamist people are added to our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173039	I think this is a rather strange question, Mrs Pernille Vermund. I know what Mrs Pernille Vermund is actually asking about. Mrs Pernille Vermund asks about Enhedslisten's immigration policy, but our foreign policy is not to look around the world and then pick the most Islamist. Our foreign policy is: let us respect the conventions and agreements that we are part of, let us take more quota refugees, let us use the United Nations quota refugee system more. And there it is, Mrs Pernille Vermund, that we do not discriminate between religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173117	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Andersen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173137	Thank you. Now I have heard everyone talking about the fact that this social control and negative social control is something really bad and that we need to get rid of it. Then I may be the one who is inexperienced in this Chamber, but I think we can't do too much, so let's just get out there. Whatever the case, it is something really bad when people are involuntarily maintained in a belief or relationship, a family or a everyday life that they do not want to be a part of. Freedom and security for the individual citizen in Denmark is one of the most important things we can contribute to from here. One of the things we have been fighting with for many years in terms of social control and negative social control is the lack of knowledge. Again and again we hear from organisations and experts that what comes to light is only the tip of the iceberg. In that case, it is the one iceberg that we really have to do a lot to melt, and one of the elements that could be worked on is in fact what the proposal here is aiming at. The fact that an anonymous notification can be made to help a victim of social control recognises that we can be one way of helping the victims, and although it does not solve all the challenges, it certainly allows more cases to come forward and be dealt with so that we can help people who are subject to social control. The smarter we stay in this area, the more stakes can be set in motion. We also welcome the fact that this proposal has the challenge of having an anonymous witness issue in relation to maintaining general legal certainty, and there is perhaps a crunch there that we need to find a solution to, and of course we also believe that we need to be further identified. We can easily support the proposal as it stands here with that crunch, and we are also in favour of the Left's proposal on the report if there is no majority in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173325	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173338	With migration from Muslim countries, victims of negative social control follow. The number of reports for so-called honour-related crimes has been increasing in recent years. The Islamic culture, in particular, weakens the rights and freedom of girls and women, but also boys and young men are subject to forms of social control which significantly inhibit or restrict the individual's manifestation of life, behaviour, elections and rights, among others. for the sake of family honor. Monitoring, sanctions, threats of violence or exclusion from the family and close relations maintain people in relation to distrust and oppression. We should not accept that in Denmark. We must insist that we in Denmark are free to live and that Islamic standards and values should not influence society. That is why, on the initiative of Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, the Left, a large bourgeois minority has recently called on the government to put forward a bill that writes social control directly into the penal code, so that the courts can tighten the penalty if a crime has been committed in the context of social control. We hope that the government will act on this, although unfortunately there was no support for the proposal from the left. In New Citizens we believe that foreigners convicted of crime in Denmark must be shown consistently and after the first sentence. This also applies, of course, to foreigners who exercise and are judged for social control. With the resolution we are debating today, DF wants to introduce an opportunity for anonymous notification by social control. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment writes in his comments on the motion for a resolution that, by all means, there is a desire to eliminate social control, and this may seem sympathetic at first sight. But anonymous reviews also come with a price. From the tax and social area we know the use of anonymous reviews, and here citizens can anonymously report matters about family, neighbours and colleagues, and who else we encounter. In other words, we are encouraged to go and stab each other, as they call it, if we become aware of or believe that we are aware of suspicious circumstances, and the authorities are then required to deal with these notifications. A notification is not just a tip to the police, a notification implies a positive duty for the authorities to deal with the matter materially, while a tip can be followed or ignored. Anonymous notifications cannot be given independent meaning in the decision of a case, only as an opportunity to examine the matter further. However, according to Associate Professor of Social Law at Aalborg University Nina von Hielmcrone, the anonymous reviews are often attributed importance. This weakens the legal certainty of the accused and, in our view, creates a state of law that is questionable. With the recent police conciliation, we have agreed to look at the advantages and disadvantages of anonymous notifications in the context of an investigation into the extent and causes of non-reporting of crime by citizens, such as young people and victims of partner violence. The outcome of that investigation we look forward to receiving as one of several parties in the police agreement. In New Citizens we want a culture in which crimes can be reported and where law-abiding citizens can live freely without fear. We do not want a society in which we allow the influence of Islamic culture to promote a pedigree culture among the citizens of Denmark. When we know the outcome of the investigation that we have decided to initiate with the police settlement, we will decide whether it would be proportionate and beneficial to extend the possibility of reporting anonymously. However, at this stage, and in the situation of lack of knowledge that we have at the moment, unfortunately, we cannot support the proposal from DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173748	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173750	I just think it's a little too bad if New Citizens can't support this proposal. After all, we are collecting support for the proposal, and I am pleased that both Conservatives and the Left support it, and I really do not understand why Mrs Pernille Vermund will not be involved in showing more of those who are behind negative social control in the Muslim environments. The thing is, we have a bermuda triangle, for example. in Vollsmose, consisting of some imams, some gangs and some parents who exercise negative social control over their children and their young people and also often their spouses. They cannot break free, they cannot be free from the regime to which they are subjected. Therefore, I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund: if we could deport more foreign imams and foreign violent men on the basis of this proposal for anonymous reviews, should we not just do so? Shouldn't we just introduce it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427173854	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, it sounds fascinating to see only one side of the coin. But the reverse of the medal is that this is not legislation that only applies in the Islamic environments. It is also legislation that will apply to the rapporteur, to myself and to other families. We know that there are fathers out there who have tough cases in the Family Court House about children over whom they lose parental rights and where there are sometimes mothers who use tricks that are not very nice, just to get the court over their children. That is one example. Another example could be the whole of this one... what should I say... harassment, which may generally be of former partners or whatever else might be. So we would really like to know what the possibilities are and what the extent of the problem is, so that we do not have another patch solution that goes beyond a lot of Danes and that creates a snitch culture but does not really solve the problems. I am not saying that it will not solve the problems. I am just saying: let us now get on the table the knowledge we have asked for in the police settlement and then make a decision on a more enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427174001	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427174003	I think it is excellent to investigate things, but I do not think we need to study much to see that we have very closed parallel communities of Muslim immigrants which make it almost impossible to get integration going. I think we agree on that. So it's just that we in the Danish People's Party say: if we're going to have these environments broken up and deport some of those who don't bother Denmark and who oppress their spouse and their children, shouldn't we get something done about it? I do not believe that what the government has done together with the left will have the very big effect, so it is important if New Citizens, together with the Left and Conservatives, can put pressure on the government and get something done that will, after all, work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427174046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427174047	After all, it is not only the government and the left that have reached the agreement on the police conciliation, where we have just agreed to have this examined. I have to admit that after the many years that have gone by, when attempts have been made to solve the immigration policy from scratch, but where a lot of Danes have been harassed and yet the real problems have not been solved, I have become a little allergic to proposals that we do not know the real consequences of, and which can obviously also have consequences for Danes, as I said, because of what we can call a snitch culture or something else. I can also vividly imagine ethnic Danish women who can be intriguing enough to use this against their ex-husband.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427174134	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the new citizen. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427174154	Thank you. The concept of social control is a very broad phenomenon which in my optics covers everything from what one might call something positive, which is education and guidance and good advice in the circle of friends, etc., to something very, very negative, which is where you control other people, including family members, by threatening violence or violence. Between the two extremes there is also something else that does not directly do anything illegal, but where social control from parents to children, for example. However, it is so profound that it has to be said that although every act in itself does not constitute an unlawful act, the amount of action makes parents unfit to be parents and their children are best placed to be placed. This proposal from the Danish People's Party is in my view about the direct illegalities in which young people and children and women, as it is primarily, but also young men who are under the influence of older men in the areas, can report to the authorities anonymously if they feel threatened or are subjected to violence. We are, of course, talking primarily about Muslim environments in which this is happening, because that is where we hear the examples. It is not, contrary to what the SF rapporteur said a few minutes ago, in Christian environments that we hear that people are threatened with violence and worse things if they do not do as the Christian environments command. We think it sounds like a good proposal and we think it sounds like a well-worked proposal that in these environments we should have the opportunity to go anonymously to the authorities and say: there is something going on here that is illegal, but I dare not stand by it by name, but I would like you to look into it and try to dive into it. We think it is necessary to have such a rule, and that is why we support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427174423	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Sir. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427174444	I would like to thank the Danish Parliament for its consideration of this proposal. I think we had a good and objective approach to the proposal, and I also thank you for the support for the Left, the Conservatives and the Liberals in particular. I also hope that New Citizens will come to their senses, because it is important in these matters if we are to break up these parallel societies, and it is a heavy, tough job to take out the whole toolbox and find the right tools. Our assessment, after working on this for a number of years, is that unfortunately, extra junk medication is needed in these parallel societies, if we're gonna get anyone to talk about what's going on at all. Fortunately, some have made an anonymous reference to this in articles that have been here over the autumn and also this spring. Both Berlingske and TV 2 have focused on this and have told us about these horrible examples, where women are forced to one and the other and the third and have major complications with divorces and such things, and where they have mixed imams and gangs into cases in a very unsightly cocktail. It puts pressure and pressure and creates an impossible situation for these women who are trying to break out of the environment. If they are to be given any chance at all, yes, we believe in the Danish People's Party that we should have anonymous reviews, so that you are allowed to say what you want to say to the police in a way where it is clear that you cannot afterwards be hunted wildly by those who, through various lawyers too, are trying to gain insight into what is the basis for the notification. I do not think that these environments are in any doubt at all, in any way whatsoever, that they are doing something bad and that they are doing something wrong, but it is very difficult to have openness about it when you are threatened with silence. The fact is, then, that social control intends precisely to deprive others of the right to a free life of their own. It is a primitive phenomenon and usually not something we know about from Denmark. But it is something that has come to us, and it seems to be on a large scale in our immigrant environments in Denmark, and it must be combated by all means. If we are to make a fight with social control, we must be aware that it is extremely difficult to do so and that it can have very severe consequences, not only for those who are exposed to it, but also for those who report what they have been subjected to. We know this from our own little life in everyday life, that is, it may be difficult to report the neighbor to exercise social control over the daughter or son, because it may involve costs if you choose to do so. We also know that a lot of people find it difficult to dare to report, for example. their own family members for social control, which means that daughters or, in so far as sons move and try to get a new identity or something else and protect themselves along that path, and that, of course, is not a solution to the long run. So if you can make anonymous reviews, that's what makes there more reviews and you get broken up more environments this way. So we really need to concentrate on solutions and we need to pool tools, and there we believe that anonymous notifications can be a step in the right direction. That is why we want to introduce it, because the fear of declaring social control must not stand in the way of fighting social control in everyday life, thereby gaining control of their own lives or ensuring that they have the right to their own lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427174859	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427174901	Thank you. I simply had a follow-up to the rapporteur's approach to the new citizens that he hoped that we would come to our senses. And we feel that if, as several parties have mentioned, we end up making a report, we will probably want to be in on it, because I believe that we will do the same on long stretches and have the same overall concerns. We just want you to know, what's the back of the medal about this? What do we risk getting into if new legislation is introduced in a blindfolded manner? So we could agree to a report, but that obviously requires that we can agree on what should be in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427174947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427174948	Well, that's always what you can try to do: a corner kick, and then there's a chance that you can go later and score a goal after the corner kick. But we would like this proposal to be implemented, because despite the fact that the government has drawn up a financial agreement with the Red Parties, we can see that a police agreement has also been drawn up in this area which affects a lot of it, and we do not believe it will help because these environments are as strong as they are. After all, it is a pact that has been made in some of the ghetto environments between the Imams, the gangs and some very strong clans that make it impossible to testify or report, because the consequences are simply so incalculable for those who do so. And it's typically girls or women trying to get out of it there, and it's almost impossible that's almost impossible. That is why we hope that time will work for this proposal and that new citizens will also be involved, and indeed also the Radicals, who first expressed their support for the proposal, but who were then not so positive today, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427175057	Thank you. Does Mrs Pernille Vermund have a follow-up question? No. And then I think that it is Mrs Rosa Lund who has asked for a brief comment, but it is from the wrong place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427175110	Sorry, I thought I'd logged in. I have one question for the rapporteur. Politicians from the rapporteur's own party often talk about the fact that there is a lot of smoking and rumour in these very parallel societies that I understand that the Danish People's Party is very concerned about. If you make a system where you have to report anonymously, sir. Peter Skaarup did not see that we are going to put these women who are being subjected to the negative social control in a situation where it will actually increase, because whoever exercises the negative social control will be suspicious of who put this application in, and will ask: is that you, is that you? And then the punishment, which is often carried out in the home, can be even harder, and so this proposal can actually help to make the situation worse, and I do not think anyone in this room wants it to stay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427175205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427175207	I have to admit, I can't really see it as a challenge. After all, the Minister of Justice mentioned the opportunity today to tip the police about something. When you introduce the possibility of anonymous notifications, you make the obligation of the police to take it seriously stronger than if it's just a tip. One might say that the tip or the anonymous notification is to compare with the situation that Mrs Lund is asking about, because both in connection with the tip and the notification there will probably be someone trying to check or try to find out where that notification comes from. However, while it is anonymous, the identity of the person who reports has been protected. In the same way, we would also like to think that in cases where someone has been persecuted in connection with a car accident we have seen time and time again that there is persecution in this regard and that people do not dare to report what they have been subjected to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427175315	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427175318	However, it all revolves around the fact that we want people who are subjected to negative social control to report that they are contacting the authorities, that they are contacting the police or some others who can help them. I and Enhedslisten just think that it will happen to a greater extent if we create an environment where it is safe to do, i.e. if there is someone you trust that you can go to and tell it to. It can, for example, be done. be your teacher, you can go to if you are exposed to something of your parents that is not okay; it can be a teacher who can intervene and who is both a person who can spot the negative social control and whom the young person or woman feels confident about going to. I am surprised that one can go through a whole educational course without ever meeting the concept of negative social control. Day care is another place where at least women with children are somehow in contact and can have a relationship with someone they trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427175408	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427175410	Yes, and I certainly think that in some cases you can do that. In the mild cases, it is one of the ways to go, and this is already happening today, when you can turn to the housing social organizations and get a dialogue going at school. But the problem here is that these are very, very harsh environments. These gangs are a bunch of strong groups that make a lot of money, so it takes a lot to break in with that boom-strong gang or ring of people who expose people to this. I simply do not believe that what Mrs Rosa Lund says is enough. There simply needs to be some harder means, and I know that we do not always agree on that, but there must be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427175449	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Peter Skaarup. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427175501	Negotiations opened. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427175518	Thank you for the floor. And let me start by just saying, for the sake of good order, that, as you know, the government is already looking at how to limit the use of penalty rebates, which are justified for a long period of time, because it is crucial for the sense of justice that the victim should not experience the withdrawal of criminal proceedings and then experience that the perpetrator has reduced his sentence for the same reason. It doesn't belong anywhere. The question raised by the motion for a resolution is, however, substantially different and relates to a fundamental principle of Danish criminal law, namely whether a common penalty should be imposed for a number of matters which are simultaneously imposed, or whether a penalty should be imposed for each of them, and they should then be added to each other, if I may say so. Of course, I agree with the authors of the motion that it is essential for the sense of justice that habitual criminals are punished for their repeated crime and that the punishment reflects the seriousness of the crime. For me, however, it is clear at the same time that the proposals of the Danish People's Party are not the way forward. In Denmark we have a principle that when several conditions are imposed at the same time, the court sets an estimated overall penalty for all the conditions; that is what we call moderated cumulation. This is not the first time that questions have been raised as to whether that starting point is the right one, and it is also something that the Criminal Code Council has dealt with in the past. In 2012, the Criminal Code Council issued an opinion stating that the principle of moderated cumulation has in practice been appropriate and should therefore continue to be the general starting point. The Criminal Code Council stated, inter alia, that absolute cumulation, where the conditions are imposed individually and the penalties are then added together, would lead to clearly superfluous punishment and that it could not be expected to have any significant crime prevention effect. In addition, the Criminal Code Council concluded that the starting point for moderated cumulation was necessary in the interests of proportionality of the penalty and that it allowed for a flexible interpretation of the penalty. I believe that these are some essential points with which I fundamentally agree. The principle of moderated cumulation simply helps to ensure proportionality and common sense in our legal system. In addition, the principle of moderated cumulation ensures that the punishment is flexible and that the courts have the possibility to include all relevant considerations in the overall punishment. Having said that, a proposal like this also has a significant impact on the evidence and thus pressure on the capacity of Danish prisons. I think the authors of the motion skilfully avoid addressing that problem. I have often heard the Danish People's Party, even today, talk about the consideration of our hard-tested prison officers, but it certainly sounds hollow when you want the government to introduce absolute cumulation before the end of this year and thus a considerable increase in prisons. The proposers suggest that the proposal should be financed by a halt to asylum. It is simply not a real offer of financing, because it does not get the cost of disappearing here and now, and the Criminal Law Council has previously considered that the introduction of absolute cumulation will result in an additional annual cost of 1.8 billion. kr. and a one-off cost of 9-10 billion. kr. That money is not at all explained where to come from. So, in addition to the reasons for not supporting the motion for a resolution, which I have already referred to, there is therefore no realistic idea of how the proposal could be financed. Because, as I have said, the proposal will have a significant impact on the capacity of Danish prisons. So the government cannot support the proposal, first of all because it is wrong in principle, it is ill-thought out and it is unfunded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427175933	There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427175937	Now the Minister for Justice has read out a number of reasons why the government cannot support this proposal. But if we are now trying to deal with the content of the proposal, could we not get the assessment from the government that it is really sustainable that hundreds of legal matters can be punished, as has happened recently at Copenhagen City Court, without giving rise to a sentence of more than 2-3 years in prison? In fact, we have a case which is a crystal clear good example of what is wrong in our community of law around it. Those are two men who have been convicted, among others. rape, car theft, all sorts of things. 650 relationships they have been convicted of. They're charged with 794 relationships. They get quite low penalties in spite of that large amount of relationships. Does the Minister for Justice really believe that it is sustainable that in our society we have such rules and even the two foreign nationals are not even expelled?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180042-2	You can also put it differently. Would it not offend the sense of justice if you have someone who commits very small relationships, but many of those who are then punished more severely than some who commit serious relationships? I mean, more shoplifting has to be punished harder than, for example. One rape. Isn't that how hard it is for you to feel about justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180104	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180106	I don't really think the Minister for Justice is answering what I asked. We have a case with two criminals convicted of the rape of a 14-year-old, street robbery, violence, vandalism, violation of traffic laws. Over 600 criminal relationships are being convicted of. And yet most people will probably say a very short sentence, namely only 2-3 years in prison. If you divide it into numbers, it is a few days in jail for everything they have done, i.e. per year. relationships. Such a thing is offensive to the right-of-law conscience.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180141	But it just doesn't change the fact that, on the other hand, you can have situations where there are many small relationships. If they are to be fully accumulated, then one will come to a situation in which one would find that there are conditions here which we consider relatively little reprehensible. I am not talking about what is being mentioned here, that is to say the facts involved, but rather a little reprehensible, for which one would then be punished more severely than those who commit some of what we consider to be truly offensive crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180209	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180213	Thank you. The minister says it will cost 1.8 billion. kr. to remove the penalty rebate that is being given to criminals today. What does the Minister think about giving criminals such a severe penalty that it amounts to 1.8 billion? kr.? Did the Minister reflect on that? Because that actually means that there are a lot of people who have committed a lot of crime for which they should be punished, but because they are not discovered in the meantime and are not punished along the way, but are first punished, and all these sentences are added together, then they get a discount in the system. Has the Minister reflected on that relationship with the sense of justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180302	Yes, and I think we should deal with that, not by saying that we will then put all the penalties on top of each other, but as we do in the other context, by asking how worthy the crimes that are being committed are. For example: After all, following our police agreement, we are currently looking at how it can be that we have relatively high penalties in a number of areas, but where the normal penalty is relatively low. Therefore, I think that one of the answers is to go in and look at the individual crimes and see where the level of punishment is. We've got one of them. It also decided jointly that the normal penalty for threats should be increased to double. So I think that's the right way to go about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180342	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180342-2	Sir. Peter Skaarup mentioned the case, as I also mentioned, from the Prime Minister earlier with these two foreigners convicted in a case of 794 offenses, including the rape of a 14-year-old, who they raped together. One received almost 3 years in prison, the other barely 4 years in prison. They weren't expelled. With several hundred offenses combined, and even if we lift the normal sentence, does the Minister believe that 3 and 4 years of imprisonment is reasonable • also seen in relation to how else we sentence corona-related crimes, which we agree should be fought down harshly? This is completely out of proportion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180429	For reasons of principle, I cannot deal with the specific case mentioned, although I have also seen reference to it. When you talk about what we are talking about here, namely whether you should cumulate by putting all the penalties on top of each other, or whether you should give the courts the opportunity to find out what the relevant penalty is in the individual situation, I think the latter is the right one. If we think that the level of penalties is too low, as we do in some areas, then I think we should address the rules where we think the level of penalties is too low and ensure that the level of penalties is raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180501	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Minister, so we start with the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180522	I love the United States, I have traveled there often, and I have lived and studied there and love the Americans very much. I have family in the United States, in Iowa, who emigrated from Denmark in the 1950s. It's a great country. The Americans are good at many things, but there are also some things you don't have to admire them for. I do not think it is a good idea for God and every man to have the right to carry weapons; I do not think it is a good idea for the death penalty; and I do not think it is a good idea for crimes to be given up to hundreds of years of imprisonment. In this way, there are a great many negative things to say about the American system in relation to judgments being placed on top of each other as building blocks, and people who, for relatively limited crime, are going to spend a large part of their lives in prison. And that is what this proposal will lead to if we take it at the floor. This will mean that every time a criminal act is committed, it will trigger a new sentence in its full length, which we build on the second sentence in its full length, and it is going fast. It can be said that there may be examples such as what I am likely to be asked about shortly and which I look forward to responding to. We will have to discuss it with each other. But that principle, and this is what we are talking about here, is that you build on top of each other as legos and thus get some extremely long sentences, I think, is wrong, which is why I am more in favour of the Danish model than of the American model. For this reason, and in view of all the points made by the Minister for Justice, we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180657	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180701	Thank you. What was said was in continuation of the Minister's speech, and that is perfectly understandable. But I would just like to ask the rapporteur once: do we not also send a signal that if you have first come out on the planet and committed some criminal acts and you have come out there where the ice cannot really bear and you are close to being caught, then you can just continue? Then it's free, because you're so criminal at the time, that even if you continue your criminal career, it doesn't really matter. You reach some point where you can say as a criminal: what I do from now on and forward doesn't cost anything, so I take the chance. There may be a challenge in people getting 700 years in prison. That can be discussed, but if the rapporteur does not agree that there is also a challenge in sending a signal to criminals that as long as they do enough, the latter is free of charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180747	Yes, I fully agree with that. We now have the challenge, and that is also why a legislative proposal has been put forward to make criminal proceedings more effective, which is precisely about not being able to continue to commit new crimes in order, like dragging the case on, and thus continuing to withdraw the case. So we're actually gonna do something to see if we can't say: now we're gonna put an end to this, now we're actually gonna put you in jail for what you've done, even if you're constantly committing new crime. So we have a problem, and we have a problem in the case that you are drawing forward here. I totally agree with that. Then the question is, what is the solution to that problem? Your solution is to build upstairs as legos and make sure you get a 300-year prison sentence. I just don't think that makes sense. I do not think this is feasible and I believe that it will have many negative consequences. So we have to solve those problems with some other means, at least if we do not want to help us have hundreds of years of imprisonment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180833	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180834	I am therefore pleased that the rapporteur admits that there is a challenge here. Because if you're just doing a regular mathematical calculation, and of course you have to be careful about doing that, you can see that many of these conditions have given an average of about 3 days of staples. It has to be said that some of the facts in the case that is being talked about are quite violent, and that also poses a challenge to the sense of justice. Then it is true, as the Minister said, that there may also be some other cases which are violent in themselves and which only concern one matter, and that this could result in a shorter penalty than if, for example, you were committed with many economic crimes. But can we interpret what the rapporteur says as saying that the government is open to discussing how we can solve this challenge, so that both those who commit crime stop and so that the sense of justice is also in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180921	Yes, and that is why I also hope that the Danish People's Party will support the bill tabled last week on the effectiveness of the criminal investigation chain, which is actually about trying to address the phenomenon of just continuing to build on top of new crime and thus dragging a case into delay. I would also like to say that if there are two foreigners without Danish citizenship who commit a rape, then they will have to leave the country. It is not far from us to use more stringent measures. There's just a difference between that and introducing a principle where you just gallop off there with penalties as far as your eye can see.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427180957	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181000	Thank you. The minister said before that it would cost approx. 1.8 billion If you did not have this penalty rebate, and now the rapporteur says that you risk being in prison for hundreds of years if you do not have this penalty rebate. But if you have committed crime to such an extent or so gross a degree with fewer offenses that you end up risking hundreds of years of imprisonment, then perhaps you shouldn't. Can the rapporteur and the Social Democrats not see that, when we speak so much in dollars and dollars or mention hundreds of years and American conditions, it is enormously far from where we are today and then what we would be convicted of if we were actually to get the real penalty for each offence?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181055	Yes, I can see that, and then we could impose the death penalty, and then perhaps some money could be saved in the last part of the time people would then sit and take up a place in prison and save some money in that way. Well, you can do those maths, and they can of course be very funny and interesting, but that just doesn't change the principle of this case, and I've tried to explain that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181113	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181114	You don't have to go as far as imposing the death penalty. You could, for example. start by throwing those who are foreign nationals out of the country, instead of consistently allowing international conventions to protect perpetrators and criminals and not victims. When we know that a relatively large proportion of the foreign criminals who are sentenced annually for rape, for example, don't even get an eviction they just get a warning... then there's something wrong in our system. I know this has nothing to do with the penalty debate, but in the case mentioned here earlier, the rape is just one of several hundred offenses among these two foreign criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181151	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181152	Yes, of course, but it is one discussion, but another discussion is whether a young man who robs five petrol stations should be sentenced to 15 years' imprisonment. Well, that is an example of how we are going to organise our legal society, and that is a perfectly fair and legitimate discussion. I'm just more in favour of the Danish model than the American model.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181212	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181235	Thank you for that, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution, which is based on a paragraph on penalty rebates, which I really think is a completely wrong premise, and I would like to try to illustrate why. We can imagine two thieves, and we could call them gang 1 and gang 2, and gang 1 is made up of three thieves we could call them Egon, Benny and Kjeld who are committing a break-in. Everything is timed and arranged, and they are lucky, because they find a place where there are real paintings on the walls and real carpets on the floors and designer furniture etc., but as they come out there, they are stopped and arrested by a detective we could call him Jensen who arrests the three unfortunate thieves, and they come before a judge and they will get a prison sentence of 2 years. With the Danish People's Party's proposal, we could then have another gang we could call them Bøffen and Bang-Johansen, not to confuse with Bang Henriksen who is so fortunate that they manage to commit 10 thefts before they are caught, and they will then get 20 years in prison with the Danish People's Party's proposal. Then you could ask yourself the question: Why should thieves 1 have to get 90 percent off against thieves 2? That is what would actually happen if the Danish People's Party's proposal were adopted, and at the same time we would be faced with a situation in which 20-year-old gang 2 would be punished more severely than the punishment we give to rapists, rapists and even murderers, and that would violate the sense of justice. So that in itself is a reason why the system that we have in Denmark and that we have developed for decades is probably very sensible. A thief is a thief, a perpetrator is a perpetrator, and a murderer is a murderer, and if you have committed many thefts, stolen too much money, you must, of course, be punished in the upper part of the penal framework. Unfortunately, that is not happening very often today, and that is something we should have looked at because it is unsatisfactory. But you shouldn't have 10 times as much punishment because you have committed 10 burglars, compared to the one who has committed one burglary. A case has also been mentioned, which has been reported in the press, today, where two foreigners have committed no less than • and now hold a record of 650 offences, i.e. 650 offences. We have asked for the verdict to be requested because we are surprised that the two have not been expelled, and one might ask how many offences should then be committed. Is it 6,000 or what? But that is 650 criminal offences. But if we take the proposals of the Danish People's Party again and imagine that every criminal offence in average would trigger a sentence of 1⁄2 years in prison, they would have to be 325 years in prison, and they could be paroled even after 214 years, when two thirds of the sentence had passed. But even if we in the Left are in favour of tougher penalties, it will, after all, be at the hard end of the scale. So the system that we have today is fine. This does not mean that we are punishing enough in a number of areas, but the system as such, with this moderated cumulation, as it says, is quite sensible, and we do not want to change that. And I hope that I have made it clear why, and that is why, unfortunately, I have to say that we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181637	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181641	Thank you. I mean, it's easy to have a good time. In the case referred to, there are, among other things: a 14-year-old girl who's been raped. The perpetrators are responsible for 794 crimes and have been convicted of 650 of them. What you can then hear the Left say here is: if you have first committed one rape, the next are cheaper, so it does not do so much to continue along that path, because the next do not cost anything. That is what the Left is saying today. And then you can mention the Olsen gang and all sorts of other fun things, but that's really what's in it. If you've only committed one rape, the next four won't cost anything when you come before a judge. That's what you want to hold on to. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181727	No, that is not true, because the person who has committed five rapes will, of course, be punished more severely than the person who has committed one, which goes without saying, but he will not receive five times as severe a penalty. We think that rape in itself is so serious that it must be punished very harshly. And you would find yourself in the situation where you had a rapist who had then committed one rape, and who would then get 80% off the rapist who had committed five rapes and why? Well, the crime is what we're punishing. Then we look at how serious the crime is, and we will, of course, punish harder if it is serious. On the other hand, one could argue that one rape is not so serious because one does not get so much punishment. You don't get that until you've committed five rapes. We think rape is serious and it must be severely punished, even if it is only one rape.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181824	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181825	Then you can go on like this and figure out what the rapporteur did before and see how stupid it would be; it then gave 300 years. One can then turn it around and say: What does 794 give compared to the punishment they have been given? Well, then you can divide it and then say: if you just put the conditions against each other, you'd see that they've got three days' liability for a rape of a 14-year-old girl. That's how you can put it out. If it had been two or three rapes, there would also be some relatives and some victims where one of the victims could say: I was not the first to be raped, so my rape has not been paid as much as the first. One could discuss whether they should have 700 years in prison and all sorts of other things, but it will also be strange. However, does the rapporteur not agree that there is a challenge here, both in terms of how to communicate to criminals and also in terms of how to communicate to victims and relatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427181916	Yeah, I can see that. Now let's say it wasn't 794 rapes. It was one rape, and then it was a series of other criminal offences just to get it settled. In relation to the specific case, I would like to say that we must now be careful to comment on pending legal proceedings and so on, but we have also wondered, and that is why we have asked to obtain the judgment so that we can go after it and find out what is the reason for the punishment that seems quite mild at first sight, and it is also surprising that the two people have not been expelled. But that does not change the fact that we do not think that this thing about putting people in prison for hundreds of years and perhaps, as the most serious thing, gets a situation where, for example, we have to put people in prison for hundreds of years. Punishes a burglar harder than a rapist is particularly appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427182005	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427182008	Thank you. I guess this is also to some extent about whether you see the case from the point of view of the criminal, that is, the perpetrator's point of view, or you see it from the point of view of the victims. From the point of view of the victims, each rape will have its own, what to say, value or different influence on the individual. And the punishment you want for the perpetrator will be the same. If you look at it from the perpetrator's point of view, then perhaps you can argue, as the Left does here: well, it doesn't matter whether you have committed one or five or ten robberies, it's pretty much the same thing, as long as they haven't managed to catch you in the meantime. That's how you argue. On the other hand, if you get caught after the first robbery, get out and commit a new one, you don't get a penalty discount. So you risk being in jail for most of your life when you commit so much crime. The difference is just: if you get caught along the way, put in prison and get out again, there are a number of those who do or do not reach the police until they have committed these 794 crimes for which they have been convicted for 650 offences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427182122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427182123	Now I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund puts words in my mouth. I have never said that it is indifference or does not really matter whether you have committed one or five robberies, thefts, rapes, etc. Of course it's more serious, the more you commit, it goes without saying. I would never say anything else. That would be a completely silly argument. But you can turn it around. For the victim who has faced a rapist will then be able to see that her rapist has received 80% off compared to another rapist because the other rapist has committed five rapes. Well, rape is disgusting and must be punished harshly. All you have to do is not do that. If you have not committed five, but only committed one, well, then it is not as bad, and then it only has to be punished by 20% than if you had committed five. Well, you can just reverse the argument, and then you'll see that then it seems pretty strange to have to have this completely Slavic hallway up with the number of offences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427182235	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427182236	We cannot just turn it around, and that is probably why the Left recently agreed that when we talk about compensation for victims, for example, it should not be the case that we only pay compensation for the first victims, and then the others must suffer. It must be the case that you are punished for every offence you have committed and that every victim can see reasonableness and justice in the relationship to which the individual has been subjected. And I think most of us, who have children of the same age as in this case, would think it was quite fair that a criminal who had committed five rapes was given five times as severe a sentence as someone who had committed one rape.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427182319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427182320	Or that the criminal who committed one rape gets off five times cheaper than the one who committed five. Of course you can turn things around. And it is not fair to compare with compensations, that is to say, that then there are some who do not get a penny at all because they have come last in line and because the first have taken the pot. It is simply not a fair comparison, I do not think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427182341	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427182408	Thank you. This is the third proposal from the Danish People's Party today. The third time, as you know, is a success, but that is not the case today, because the SF cannot support this proposal either. After all, we have just agreed that with the new police conciliation we should look at the issue of penalty rebates and the like. I have the impression that we are not quite done with this discussion yet, and we would like to wait for some recommendations to be made. I am not sure that it is a good idea to simply abolish the penalty debate completely, but we are not opposed to looking at elements of it. I can be concerned about extremely long sentences, and I can be really concerned about a criminal service that is at the breaking point in advance; this may not be the time for this kind of proposal. On the other hand, I have long felt that we should look at cases where perpetrators, like pooling cases, commit new crimes and thus have a right to deal with cases together, and in this way they can push the case ahead. We saw, among other things. a very serious stalking and violence case with many, many violations, which took 8 years to get through the judicial system. This is by no means fair or reasonable for the victims. Here we think that the authorities should be able to draw a line in the sand earlier and say that the facts are now being judged, despite the fact that the investigation of possible new circumstances is not complete. There is, of course, something reprehensible about pushing the sentence before you just by committing new crime and thus keeping a case complex open and then the victims can just wait nicely until the judicial system has worked out all the threads in the many cases. So there are these examples of some perpetrators making conscious use of it, and we must, of course, do something about it. But there is also sometimes a problem in the slowness of the police, the prosecution and the courts, which means that some cases have an extremely long way to go through the system, where new things can be done during the waiting period. We have been very good at tightening the penalty screw, but we have not been so good at making sure that those who actually have to deal with this increasing number of cases have the resources for it. And for me, it seems a little backwards that you then have to change legislation because of a lack of resources. The Minister has mentioned that the Criminal Code Council has examined this proposal in the past, and we have to say that it is quite a mouthful. If you simply follow the Danish People's Party's proposals in this area, there should be between 9 and 10 billion. kr. For the establishment of 3 000 prison places, and 1.7 billion. kr. extra costs were to be used in operating costs per year. I also think that there should be a balance in things. Maybe there's not a lot of prison on my wish list. Although I have a lot of heart for our prison officers and the D.C., maybe I don't dream of expanding capacity so much. And I do not expect it to make it easier for anyone to follow the proposals of the Danish People's Party. So it's gonna be a no from here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427182745	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427182811	Thank you for the floor. When someone commits more crimes, it happens in criminal law that you can punish in clashes. If, by one or more acts, someone has committed several offences, they shall be subject to a common penalty within the prescribed penalty or, if more than one penalty is taken into account, to the most stringent of them. In extremely aggravating circumstances, the penalty may exceed the maximum penalty prescribed for any of the offences by up to half. That doesn't mean you get a discount. You get a discount in stores to lure customers to. Prisoners don't entice inmates with offers. On the contrary, because when a prison opens, there is no opening offer. But for crime, the more and the more crime you commit, the more severe the punishment you get. That is why punishment is a misnomer's grip, a totally wrong premise. It's all on the moon. It is true that you do not take each wrong separately and put them on top of each other. That would give some totally inproportionate punitive measures. Add to that that we have a stocking percentage of over 100 per cent, and then I just don't know where to place the extra penalty mass. And I don't think there's any room in the cellars here at Christiansborg either. Thirdly and lastly, it is economically irresponsible and will cost society a great deal. We have not yet heard whether it is the elderly or the hospitals that the Danish People's Party wants to save. But it may be that we will have the opportunity to hear it later when the rapporteur for the proposers comes to his attention. But all that has been said, the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183019	Thank you. And there is a brief comment. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183020	Quite briefly, they say it's not a discount, but it's a discount. Because you don't get punished for the crimes you do afterwards. Now we've talked a lot about rape. But this is also when you talk about over 700 offenses, or criminal acts; burglary and theft and other things. You just have to remember that burglary can be quite bad for those who have been exposed to it and has come to a home where children's room, living room, bedroom and everything is torn apart. It won't be punished when you've done it in ten houses. Then the penalty won't go up. It's not proportional. The rapporteur said that the harder crime you do, the more you have to be punished. But that is not happening, because if you have been inside a house, you will be punished for it. If you've been inside two houses, it's going up, but if you've been inside 10, 20 or 30 houses, it's not going up anymore. And then you use the argument that this is gonna cost you money. Yeah, but they can be found. We have had a case today where we can see that we spent 1 billion. kr. On lawyers' bills. And now we can't continue the case anyway. I mean, it's not like it's impossible to raise money if you want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183132	No, that's not quite impossible. But then we have to hear what the Danish People's Party thinks should be spared. Whether it should be the elderly or the hospitals or the schools. We still have the benefit of getting answers to that, but it may be that we will have the opportunity to do so later. One simply has to make it clear that this discount is simply a misleading concept. It has also been promoted in the past in the debate, but it is clear that it is of course something that sounds very good when you have to write a resolution or you have to promote it in the media. But this is not a discount. It is the case that when you commit more crimes, you get more severe punishment. And, of course, that's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183209	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183211	In other words, we can take the economy: the Radicals have also taken part in a mink business. That was over 20 billion. kr. plus the many, many billions that were in export. If we went in and re-established the mink business, we would have seen the money for even more than this. Oh, come on. This isn't about economics. This is about not punishing the crimes that are committed out there. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183238	Of course it's about economics. If you propose something and you don't have the money to do it, it's financially irresponsible. However, I look forward to hearing whether it is the elderly, or it is hospitals or the country's education or municipalities that have to save when we hear the rapporteur on later occasions. I am, of course, looking forward to getting an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183258	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183317	Thank you. There is no doubt, because I think that the Danish People's Party has been the banner of a policy in which we have to punish criminals harder and harder. It is as if the concern for the sense of justice is so high in the Danish People's Party that they have become completely blind to what I would call the sense of justice, i.e. how it makes sense to punish. For example: crime prevention is not mentioned at all, and it is equally important in my view, just as it is equally important for me to ensure that people do not commit crime again once they have been punished. So how do we prevent that? I think that is at least as important. For what is the real purpose of our society? Is it that we should have as little crime as possible, or is it that the need for revenge must be satisfied forever? In fact, I think that the objective must be that we have as little crime as possible. With this resolution, we will undoubtedly end up in a society where we will have more crime. The more times you sit in prison and the longer you do, the more likely you are to commit new crime. With this proposal, we end up in a situation where a person who, for example, is addicted to heroin and therefore commits forced entry to finance his consumption must not only spend two years in prison for six break-ins in one night, but 12 years. We are going to have an incredibly large proportion of the population in prison in this way, and if they get out before they die, according to the Danish People's Party's proposal, the risk of further crime has increased. There are states in the United States where they have the famous three strikes and you are out principle. For example, if you paint graffiti on a fence, smoke a joint and smash a window, it's right in prison for life. It is not far from the situation we can get if this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party is adopted. So instead of focusing on constant punishments, we in the Danish Parliament and perhaps especially in the Danish People's Party should look at how to prevent crime, how to ensure that crime is not committed over and over again by the same people. I think it's in all our interests to minimize the amount of crime. I also believe that it is in the interests of all of us to ensure that no crime is committed again, but I do not believe that this is happening by punishing us harder and harder. On the contrary, I think we have seen that the way in which the Danish People's Party has conducted politics over the past 20 years has not worked. That is why Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal. Then, of course, we also disagree, and this may come as no surprise, with the source of funding for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183621	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183624	There is probably only one, because we will probably never agree on it, and that is the way it is, and there must be room for that too. I just want to ask Enhedslisten for something. The greatest victim in a crime is not the perpetrator. Does the Enhedslisten not agree that there is also some cost to society of a simple break-in? It may be that you are socially exposed and others and heroin addict, but you are inside and smash a home with an ordinary family. It may be people who get on sick leave, it may be that you don't like being in the house anymore, it may be that you have to move, it may be that the children are afraid to stay there because you have had this experience with the house being rooted through. However, does the Enhedslisten not agree that it is not only the perpetrator who is the victim? Those who are exposed to the crimes are victims in these cases, aren't they?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183712	I fully agree with that. The perpetrator is not the victim at all. That is why we need to have a legal policy which means that the perpetrator does not cause more victims, in other words that the same person does not commit more crime. I don't think that's gonna happen by punishing you harder. I think it is important that we have a balance between what we call the sense of justice and what I used to call the sense of justice, that is, how we ensure that there is less crime. Of course, there has to be consideration for both, but I believe that the balance here is unbalanced for the Danish People's Party. I simply do not think that is sensible and I think that more victims will come out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183749	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Mads Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427183812	Thank you. In order to stay on track around American prisons, I can tell you that my first front page of a newspaper almost very many years ago was: Young KU chairman wants US prison conditions. And in this outrage, I would like to say in my defence that I was 17 years old, just appointed President of Conservative Youth in Central Zealand and had been told that over the years, I have become a little softer, that is, in my policy, and I would like to start by saying that we in the Conservative People's Party are actually positive about this proposal. We are, of course, because habitual criminals do not have to be rewarded for doing the same crime several times. The penalty discount that we grant today reminds us a little of the discount you get when you go down to your local clothing store, and without spending too much time on that comparison, you can see that you are offered three shirts at two shirts' price. Of course, it is also a really nice thing in a retail context, and if you lack shirts, but this is a slightly different talk. We are talking about volume discounts when we commit crime. We believe that, as a starting point, it must be legal certainty and this sense of justice that we all talk about as much as watchman when there are more offences. However, we would also like to raise a few points of reference and recognise that account must be taken of the fact that we risk hitting socially vulnerable and mentally ill particularly hard with a proposal like this. At the same time, we also hope that there are several things that we can somehow get massacred into the discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs. It could be something like that, for example. It has been raised a few times. I never hope that money will ever be the issue of the sense of justice, and that must never be the starting point when we discuss a theme like this. At the same time, it is possible to strike in some areas. I actually think the Minister for Justice granted it a little bit, given that some of this is being looked at with a penalty discount. After all, there are also some types of punishment where the penalties are not properly and adequately used. However, as a starting point, we are in fact positive enough to discuss further, but with the few points we have raised here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184020	Thank you. There is no brief comment to the Conservative rapporteur, after all, that just came one. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184032	I just made it. In other words, the Conservative People's Party believes that a car thief who has stolen 50 cars should be punished more severely than a rapist. Because that's the consequence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184046	I think I heard myself say that we also need to look at what kind of crime these are, and that is what I like to open up a little so that we might be able to do in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Because I really believe that there is such a general view that everyone wants to punish the rapist who has committed three rapes, but that no one really wants to hit the homeless who commit five shoplifting. So I actually think you should try to see if you can't get a little deeper into this, about whether there are some particular areas where we should at least punish harder.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184114	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184117	But now the rapporteur has to decide: are we in favour of the proposal, or are we not? To say that there are some areas that need to be punished more severely, you can do so. Okay, I'm sure we can agree on that. But to say that 50 car thefts must then be punished by 50 times the normal sentence, which is 14 days in prison, which would then be harder than for a rape which typically gives a couple of years in prison, I still find it rather odd, and then you are not in favour of the proposal. So will you vote in favour of the proposal, or will you vote against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184149	I will insist that we are positive about the proposal, and we are, also because some of what has been decided in the police conciliation is, of course, that more parameters and bureaucracy should be dealt with. So I really think it is right that we should perhaps take it down and say that this proposal can actually serve as a basis for discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, if there is also a wrong way of dealing with sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184213	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184217	I was actually a little surprised, perhaps in line with my colleague Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen for this sounds a little like new tones from Conservatives. Are we to understand that Conservatives now believe that they support full cumulation, where they build the penalties on top of each other, so that penalties for five robberies can give five times the penalty for one robbery? Is that the view of the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184245	I think we were exactly like this a week ago, when I said to the rapporteur that every time crime in Denmark can be punished more severely, we are in favour of it as a starting point. However, I still think that there are some things about this proposal that we need to bring back to committee and discuss because, as the proposal is here, we are not ready to vote directly for it, but at least we are ready to take the elements out of what we think is good and discuss them in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184310	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184311	Yes, yes, fine, but the principle we are discussing here is, of course, whether the penalties are cumulative, that they are put on top of them. That is what the proposal is about. With what the rapporteur says, the Conservatives are also in favour of the death penalty because it is the ultimate hardest punishment you can have. So what the proposal is about here is the cumulation of punishments that are built on top. That means that if you do 10 robberies at a gas station, you'll be able to get what do I know? Do you support Conservatives' principle, or do you not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184341	We certainly do not support it as it stands here, but we are positive about including in the committee those parts of the proposal that we would like to discuss further.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184351	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184355	I would just like to acknowledge that Conservatives look at the proposal and also take note of what is positive about it and, of course, what can be pointed at, as the rapporteur said. That's what you can do in politics. Sometimes you can reach each other there. You can come up with a factor of 100, and then you can agree on a factor of 50 or a factor of 80. What we have heard from the Left, and what we have heard from the government and from other parties, is that this has been made fun of. They've been talking about the Olsen Gang and other things, and they don't really care if a person has raped, raped, raped, raped, raped, raped, raped, raped. You just thought that was funny. Conservatives take it right down and say: yes, there are some things we agree on, but there are also some things on which we disagree. That is why we have not finished dealing with this matter and why it is also coming back in committee. So I'd like to sign for that, and of course we'd like to see if we can have this knitted together in a sensible way, so that the Conservatives too can see themselves in it. That's how you make politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184447	That's how you make politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184450	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184507	Last week, two foreigners were convicted in Copenhagen City Court. The charge was 103 pages. The two foreigners were convicted in a case with nothing less than 794 offenses. They've been scamming, they've been attacking random Danes, kicking people who lie down, in their heads and filming it while. They stole expensive cars. They have bought expensive luxury clothing, also for stolen money, for hundreds of thousands of dollars. They've robbed, kicked, threatened, they've just kept on and on. The police know what happened, because they found videos that these two detachable aliens had recorded and stored on their computer, including the video of a 14-year-old girl they raped in shifts while filming it, and then they shared it on the web with a 14-year-old girl! It's hard not to feel physically bad about the thought. One of the two criminals was sentenced to 3 years and 11 months in prison, and the other was sentenced to 2 years and 10 months in prison for 794 offences. That's crazy. We're a joke. The prosecutor wanted the two aliens expelled, but the court gave them a warning instead. None of them were deported, and soon they will be at large again. The 794 offenses triggered a penalty discount. It is simply unbearable to think about, and it is totally irresponsible and irresponsible that we, as politicians, should accept this state of law. Current legal principles distort proportionality; they weaken the sense of justice in society. And the criticism haunts the judges of the country when the media brings cases like the one mentioned. People just don't understand. And I have to admit that I simply cannot understand either that you can accept it and that you can stand by it. The fact is that it is and remains a political responsibility, whether these are the principles which Danish case-law should be based on principles, where the punishment does not grow at the same rate as the number of crimes committed at the same time or whether we should instead resort to a practice in which each crime counts separately, precisely in the same way as it is a political responsibility to ensure that foreigners convicted of crime are expelled. It is a political responsibility, and we cannot be aware that we are sitting here pretending to be in favour of tougher penalties, but upholding this principle of law. The courts judge by it, and then we stand and are outraged behind. We cannot be aware of this if we want the support and trust of the people, and we should have that in a people's government. We have in the New Citizens' Party in the past in this House proposed that criminal foreigners should be deported consistently and after the first sentence. Unfortunately, there was no majority in favour of this. So that the two foreigners will not be expelled in the future either, evidently there is a majority view that is quite reasonable. The motion for a resolution tabled by the DF, which we are debating today, deals with the relationship of penalty rebates. And the authors of the motion for a resolution point out that current case law allows criminals to speculate and to calculate a penalty for the crimes committed. The case of the two foreigners convicted last week in the City Court of Copenhagen, as I said in a case of 794 offences, is a horrible and gloomy example of how some groups in society live a life where crime and crime are everyday. These are people who cynically and calculated make innocent people the victims of their brutal behavior. They are destitute people like the two who are rewarded by a court case-law with a penalty rebate; they are the ones that the majority of the Danish Parliament is watching over. I don't understand. I simply do not understand it, and if it is for the new citizens, then of course we must stop defending the criminals, and we must not accept a penalty in such areas where the people out there are shaking their heads and we risk losing the essential support that needs to be given to our courts, to our legal system. That is why, of course, new citizens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427184959	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427185003	Now I do not know if I am being cut into another of the new citizens' campaign videos, what I think there is a tendency to do every time you speak and ask a question. I hope you don't cut this out. Because that is a total derailment of the debate. As I said when I stood on the platform, I fully agree that if two foreigners commit a rape, they must leave the country. But that is not what the proposal is about. So let's get the hell out of here. I swear to God. Let's talk about what this proposal's about. The proposal is about cumulation, where the penalties for each crime are added to each other. That's what this is all about. This isn't about the expulsion sentence for a rape. I understand that that is now being supported. You support Conservatives, it supports the Danish People's Party, it supports New Citizens, and it is after American example. So I just ask: do you also support the death penalty or the American model? Do you also think that you should be allowed to carry weapons in Denmark? Does one really want such an Americanisation of the Danish legal system? Is that what you support? Because that is what this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427185058	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427185101	I think that it would be good for the rapporteur to have a little break, perhaps drink a glass of water and get a little energy for the matter I am mentioning here, is, of course, a case in which the rape is one of the hundreds of offences for which they have been convicted. And when they have been punished so lightly, it is because there is a system, a case law in Denmark, where you get a discount, that is, where they are not sentenced one to one for each crime. We are talking street robbery, we are talking sexual intercourse with several minors, of whom they have not been able to be convicted for rape. We talk serious crimes, we talk fraud, we talk fraud. It is inconceivable, I think, for the vast majority of Danes, that such a case gives less than 3 years and 4 years respectively in prison. And it does, of course, because we have that case law. That is what I am saying: that is clearly something that is being backed up, and one must then just explain to the people that it is not because there are some judges out there who are brain-dead, it is simply because a majority here in Parliament thinks it is absolutely reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427185210	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427185211	No, we do not think it is fair for foreigners who commit rape to be expelled. We are in complete agreement on this. But that is just not what the proposal here is about. Now I just ask the question again: Does New Citizens want the death penalty to be imposed in Denmark, that you should be allowed to carry weapons, or that the penalties should be cumulative for all types of crime, so that you can have penalties that last for hundreds of years?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427185234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427185235	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, no, we don't. However, when I mention what the penalty for these two criminals is almost three years old and just under four years old, does the rapporteur really think that is fair for the many crimes? Although it was not foreigners, even if we were not talking about expulsion, that is what it means, the consequence of the principle out there. And I am really afraid that there are some Danes out there thinking: we have a judgeship that is megar radical all together, and they may be, many of them. But frankly, I also think that you should take your share of responsibility politically, and I think you are running away from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427185318	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead. There must be a little quiet in the Chamber, because the next rapporteur has gone on the floor!
ParlaMint-DK_20210427185345	If a criminal we can call him Jens is committing a robbery, which is charged at 1 year, and then Jens goes to prison for 1 year, and then he comes out and on the first day of his release commits violence, which is also charged at 1 year, then Jens gets 1 more year • it's a total of 2 years in prison. If Jens commits the robbery and violent assault in the same week, and they are treated together in a trial, then Jens does not get 2 years in prison, then he gets a penalty discount because he has committed things at the same time instead of committing them in continuation of each other and in continuation of the atonements. We do not see any logic in this, so we support this resolution and it is something we have wanted for several years. Even in our economic 2030 plan, on which we went to elections during the 2019 parliamentary elections, we have set aside the 2 billion. kr., as it costs to make room in the prison system for more people who have to sit longer because they no longer get a penalty discount. Our 2030 plan has been implemented by the Ministry of Finance, and everything in it fits in exactly, and there is even more funding in that plan than there is expenditure, so it is under control. I am not sure that the Danish People's Party's proposal for an asylum freeze in this way can be implemented under the conventions in question, but we ignore and go along with our view that the penalties should be abolished and our own proposals on how it should be financed. We have no problem saying that now is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen unfortunately went on to say that a person who commits 50 burglary and thereby harasss 50 families must have a total sentence which is so high that it may well exceed what a person who has committed a rape is sentenced to. I am aware that a rape is a much greater crime than a burglary, but if you have committed 50 burglary and thus harassed 50 families who have come home to a devastated and ravaged home, where valuables you value have disappeared, then I think it can be said that 50 burglaries together are such a crime that you can defend that the total penalty also exceeds what the penalty for one rape has been. It doesn't change the fact that a rape is worse than a burglary, but 50 burglaries are bad too. By the way, we believe that this is one of the things that can prevent people from committing any crime at all. I think that as far as the people who, for example, are concerned, are concerned. If 50 burglary is committed, there is no question of spontaneous involvement in a career. There are people who have made a career of breaking and the fact that they can be punished much more severely for all the damage they do to 50 different people and 50 different families can, I believe, lead to the exclusion of careers as a burglar, and then there are 50 families who do not have that kind of thing. On top of that, the kind of people who only get a ridiculous little punishment for having committed so many break-ins come out quickly, and then they can start their break-ins again. If we have them in prison, they certainly won't break into that time. And when it comes to people who have committed 50 crimes or even 700 crimes that have been talked about here from the platform, we probably need to get them in and sit for a very, very long time, so that we do not have to deal with their behavior for many, many years afterwards. So we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427185815	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427185818	Thank you for that and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. I would just like to briefly mention something. When we were negotiating police reconciliation, some of the things that LA brought into the negotiations and that we greatly appreciated, even though LA is not part of the settlement, were the whole discussion that there are some types of crimes that are de facto punishable, including among others. Breaking and entering. There are so few burglaries being discovered, and one can commit a series of burglaries without being discovered or a stripe of break-in and then perhaps only be discovered after 50 break-ins, and that is why the rapporteur's speech is so extremely relevant, including in this regard. Now it was not the rapporteur himself who was involved in the police negotiations, and unfortunately you were not in the agreement either, but I would just like to acknowledge the work that was done there and that is also related to what is being said here. Because it is true that when there are crimes that are virtually de facto punishable, what is the incentive not to enrich themselves at the expense of others once you can get away with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427185921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427185922	Thank you. Let me mention some anecdotal things you hear about once in a while. People get stolen electronic devices that can be traced in one way or another, and when they turn to the police and say they can see that their computer is now in this street in this house number, the police won't go in and pick up the stolen item in there and make sure there's a penalty. So the police's practice seems to be too serious about enriching crimes committed against private people, which means that it is easy to make a career out of being an enriching criminal. And it is clear that punishment must be imposed, but one must also be discovered in order to obtain the punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190027	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. René Christensen. Sir. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190049	Thank you. Thank you for the debate and, in particular, thank you to the Liberal Alliance for the last speech here. I'm actually gonna start somewhere else to tell you what this also means. We very much agree that this can also help to reduce crime, as the Enhedslisten also mentioned, and that is what this is all about. Yeah, that's actually what this is about for the Danish People's Party. At least in the last year I received an email from an officer who wrote that now he simply had to send it to me, because now someone was supposed to be sitting in the Folketing, who was supposed to have an email from the real world. It was some policemen who had taken some prisoners to prison for a judge, and there they were not allowed to talk to them, but when they then drove them back after they had been convicted, they had to talk to them. There they had talked to two Romanians who had been convicted of some crime. They ask: Why on earth do you go all the way to Denmark to commit crime, there are plenty of countries when you come from Romania before you get up here, you can go to Austria, you can go to Germany and elsewhere, so why don't you do your criminal acts closer to your home? And the answer that comes back is: No, no, it is best to go to Denmark, because the risk of getting caught is small, and if you get caught, nothing really happens about it. Therefore, Denmark is such a good place to go if, as was said earlier, you have a career in crime, and also if, for example, you get as far away as Romania, because the punishment is very small. It is, of course, an occupational injury to be taken when you are a criminal, because then you have to be in the country where there is least work injury, and it is then in Denmark. Well, we have the cheapest system to do crime in, and it's really a shame that we have it. That is why we have put forward this proposal that we should, of course, be punished for the crime we are doing. We in the Danish People's Party think that a completely wrong signal is being sent out. When you do something criminal, you get full punishment if you get caught, even if you haven't done much, but if you've done a lot, you really don't get punished for the latter. So once you get started, keep going, 'cause as long as it goes, the price won't get higher. That is certainly a challenge. That is why I would also like to sign up to the Conservatives, who gave a sound rapporteur's speech. One may disagree on how this is to be achieved, but I still think I am quite appalled that both the Social Democrats and the Left think this is completely irrelevant. If a person has been inside and through 50 homes, divide children's rooms, tear the bedroom apart, ruined the whole home, you come home and you are shocked to come home to such a home, then the Social Democracy and the Left say: Yes, yes, and so, they are punished? But if they had committed one burglary, it is just before that the penalty is almost the same as if you had made 50 burglaries. Yeah, well, for the last 49 people, you don't have to be punished for it. It would be quite wrong to punish for the wrongdoing or the illegal practices that you do. There we have to say that we believe that we have to find some kind of consensus in some way that Denmark should not be a country we travel to in order to make crime, because it is cheap. You can travel to Denmark and make 794 criminal conditions, you can be convicted for 650 conditions. You've raped a 14-year-old girl, you've stolen cars, you've done street violence, you've done robberies, one has got 3 years and 11 months, and the other has got 2 years and 10 months. Yes, it is also a cheap punishment for ruining the lives of so many people. That's the system we have. And then you draw pictures of the Olsen-Band and everything else, and then you just say to those people, "Yes, you have to live with it." I think you take it all the wrong way down. It's just before the victims become the criminals, and those who stand out there looking into this must think: Hm, helping punishment? It is not certain that punishment helps so much when you have done so, but it might well be that punishment helped before you do it, because it is not good for us to send out a clear signal that as long as you do enough, the price does not rise, because of course the price has to rise, the more criminal you are. That is why we have put forward the proposal and, of course, we also hope that, in the context of the work of the committee, we can find each other and that we can see whether we can do something and work on it here, so that we do not have the fact that Denmark is a country where crime is actually not being punished, because of course we have to punish crime in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190555	Thank you. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190601	Thank you. I can see that I have five minutes to ask questions, but the world is probably not that good. What I really want to ask is about the proposal we are dealing with here. Now we mention the case, as described in Berlingske today, of two foreigners who commit rape. I have said on several occasions, both in relation to my speeches and questions, also to the new citizens, that I agree that if two foreigners commit a rape and it is possible to show them out, they must be shown out. But that is not what the proposal is about. I just need the rapporteur to confirm that what this proposal is about is the accumulation of penalties for crimes and not in isolation about two foreigners committing a rape, which I think we are all outraged by. At any rate, I am also in favour of their being shown out, but that is not what the resolution is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190651	I do not understand why the rapporteur is asking me that question at all. I haven't mentioned it in a word.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190656	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190659	I asked the question because, when New Citizens were on the platform before, I was accused that I did not care about it and that the fact that there was no support for the accumulation of punishment, like a blue stamp that two foreigners could commit a rape completely free of charge or without having to be expelled. That is why I am asking the question. And now that New Citizens are about to make their video, I think this clip is important to get in. That's one thing. Then, like the other, I would like to put a question to the Danish People's Party. Now you want to finance this with an asylum freeze, and you think we should now have this American system, which combines punishment. Does this mean that there are other parts of the American system, the death penalty, etc. that must also be part of it? It is not to neglect the importance of the example that has been drawn up in Berlingske, but I think it is essential to understand what other elements are actually envisaged when the American system is introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190757	No, we really just want justice. We do not want the death penalty. But what is important here is that there are some who repeatedly commit crime. I just have to say that there are some who keep committing crime and are so injured that they almost commit crime from the day they leave prison, and if they continue to commit crime the month they are out, they will only be punished for what they did on the first day. Honestly, we actually feel better about them being locked up, even so they can't hurt the rest of society. There are some who are so deep criminals that they shouldn't be walking around among the rest of us. Yeah, this proposal will make it possible for some people to get high penalties. Yes, that is the purpose of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190838	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190842	I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware of the fact that there are other European countries with which we usually compare ourselves to punishing cumulatively, as the rapporteur's party suggests, where you take each offence separately and put it together. Are there any other European countries with which we compare ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190902	I simply do not have the courage to answer that question. Actually, I'm not the legal rapporteur. I am such a bit of a standin, but that is why I still have an opinion on the proposal here. Actually, I don't dare say that. I am not sufficiently familiar with what other countries have legal systems to respond to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190915	Indeed, I do not know any other European countries with which we normally compare ourselves, and so I would like to ask whether this is because the US penal system is a model for the Danish People's Party. Or how is this proposal supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190930	The proposal here must be understood to make it possible to walk on the street and feel safe, that you can leave home feeling safe, that you can send your 14-year-old daughter out on the street and feel safe, that we have a system where we actually punish those who rape a 14-year-old girl for example, commit repeated burglary, steal lots of cars or commit many robberies. We will punish them harshly; that is what we want with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190955	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427190957	Thank you. As an additional information, I can say that the matter, as Mr von der Vring has pointed out, is a matter for the Commission. Jeppe Bruus mentioned, of course, is relevant precisely because there are so many wrongs, of which the rape is one and probably the one that makes the most impression on many of us, but it is a case of extremely many wrongdoings, where you have just received a penalty rebate, and where it is, I think, too many incomprehensible that the two criminals are getting off with just under 3 years and just under 4 years in prison. That is what is involved in this matter, after all, in the fact that there is a penalty rebate. There's some people out there thinking, "Are those courts blown?" Then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not also agree that the support for our entire legal system, in other words the understanding that the courts are actually judging to a relatively large extent as politicians would like, is also dependent on the courage of politicians to stand by, that this is the consequence of the policy we are pursuing and is the case law we want in Denmark, and we would like to know that, instead of indignation and outrage and then just say: well, that is enough justice. Does the rapporteur agree that it is a real problem for our support for the rule of law and for our sense of justice if we do not take political responsibility to stand by the fact that the case law we have is a political decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427191130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427191131	Of course it is a political decision. That's the way it is. Now you are standing here on the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament and we are discussing many figures. There are 365 days in a year. These people have been charged with 794 crimes. They've been convicted for 650 relationships. It's the rape of a 14-year-old girl. It's street robbery. These are violent relationships. It's vandalism. It's a violation of traffic laws. It's theft of cars. And then they get 3 years and 11 months and 2 years and 10 months. Yes, it is a political responsibility that we do not give more severe penalties and that there is a penalty rebate absolutely.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427191214	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur of the proposers. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if none of you objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427191235	The debate is open and I would like to welcome the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427191256	Thank you. Raw materials such as sand and gravel are important to our society. Without them, we couldn't build houses or make roads like we do today. At the same time, I am aware of the challenges that are, of course, when it comes to mining, both right now, but especially in the slightly longer term. The construction industry uses large quantities of virgin raw materials in the form of sand, gravel and stone, of which 70%. used for installations and roads. However, the quantity of raw materials available to us in Denmark is limited and no new raw materials will be available. In some regions, it is a challenge that not enough raw materials can be recovered to meet local needs. In the extraction of raw materials on land, we see that our common need for raw materials in some places is of great concern and also trouble for those who become neighbours to a raw material grave. At sea, it is a matter of preventing recovery from creating challenges for the animals and plants living on the seabed. That is why we need to use the resources we now have in the best possible way. We must be better able to recycle, recycle and replace, so that raw materials are also available for future generations. That is why I am also pleased that on 5 March this year a broad majority of Parliament's parties, including the proposer, the Left, reached an agreement on sustainable construction. In the motion for a resolution we are debating in this Chamber today, the Left states that a national strategy on raw materials should be included in a future agreement on sustainable construction, and in this way we can sometimes be overtaken by what is happening on the negotiating side. However, the agreement on sustainable construction, which was then concluded in March of this year, i.e. less than 2 months ago, states: "A knowledge base must be created for when and how it makes environmental and economic sense to recycle and recycle materials in construction while at the same time doing so in a health and safety manner, including providing a basis for a more appropriate use of non-renewable raw materials such as sand and gravel. ▪ It is my view that when we have the professional knowledge base in place, we can also decide which follow-up is most appropriate. In relation to the question of neighbours to the tombs of raw materials, I think it is important that there should also be tolerable conditions for those citizens. So the art is to find the right balance between society's need for raw materials and the concern for the citizens who live near the tombs of raw materials. That is why I have also asked my ministry to look into this issue. At the moment, we do not have sufficient knowledge of the scale of the problem and hence the possible shortcomings of the rules in force. We would like to look at this in conjunction with relevant actors, not least the five regions. Then we can continue to analyse the need to take action if necessary. As is the case today, compensation can be paid if it is assessed by a court that the threshold of tolerance for neighbouring law has been exceeded. This means that, as a neighbour, you can bring a case to the courts if you think that you are experiencing genes that exceed what you normally have to tolerate. I think that is a good starting point, but as I said, the Ministry is examining whether further needs are needed. Work has thus been started to create a professional knowledge base, both in relation to the appropriate use of raw materials and in relation to possible neighbouring compensation. The government wants to wait for the work before deciding what to do and on that basis the government cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427191634	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427191641	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Minister for a relatively friendly rejection. It is not new that a government usually rejects resolutions, but I nevertheless felt that in the Minister's words there was some understanding of the proposal. Because it is common sense for us to find out what we have in terms of resources. At the moment, it is the state that is responsible for water resources. It is the regions that are responsible for the resources on land and they are doing an excellent job in this regard, and then we have the new and incredibly important dimension that the Minister mentioned, namely recycling, which we must have boosted in the coming years. It is, after all, like what we have in the supply of raw materials. And then we have the whole part of the demand for our construction, construction activity, future infrastructure, where a large deal is being negotiated that will probably also draw on some raw materials. And if the two things are then linked to national planning, then it is that we in the Left believe that we can reduce transport needs and that we can have a better redistribution of raw materials between regions. For example: the Capital Region is running dry or it is happening very quickly. I therefore hope that the Minister understands that we need national planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427191753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427191756	I can quite easily follow the intention that we should have as much recycling as possible of our raw materials. Because it is clear that when we have the limited raw materials we have, we must use them wisely. That is exactly what has been agreed in the sustainable construction strategy. Now I know that the rapporteur from the Left is delighted with the way in which more progress has been made in this country, and that is one of them. where we use the raw materials. So, of course, there has to be a connection between it, that is, that we also become better at recycling. What then puzzles me when it is that it is an important priority for the Left is that it has not been lifted in the negotiations on sustainable construction that have taken place. Now I have not taken part in the negotiations in this area myself, but I have taken the trouble to ask. And there it has not been a priority for the Left. So it can be said that even in the motion for a resolution that has been written here we pointed to it as an obvious place to discuss it, then I think it would have been natural to lift it there. However, I would say that where we have ended up, in other words with the study that lies here, where we are becoming wiser, I think that is a very sensible place to land with that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427191900	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427191903	But it's not like that about who's gonna take the credit and who's gonna take the credit for it. Well, we've been yelling about this a lot with Danske Regions, which is completely in line with us, that is, with regard to the need for national planning. This is not contrary to the excellent agreement that has been made on sustainable construction. This is just a superstructure where we get a practical job done. There's not much politics in it. It's mapping out what we have of resources and where we need them. And then it is a matter of minimising transport for the benefit of all the greens. Then there are the conditions around the neighbors, which we also agree we have to deal with. And there are a number of other things. It is a practical piece of work that we should do as soon as possible. I just want to hear from the Minister whether she is completely opposed to us getting started on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427191943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427191945	But I think we are looking at it a little differently, in the sense that what I am referring to is not in fact the ones who should have the credit for a certain initiative. But I also know that the rapporteur of the Left has been in here at Christiansborg for long enough to know that it is also at the negotiating table that the important things that are in the bag, the proposals that the party wants to see through, must of course be lifted in. It just hasn't been done in this context. That does not change the fact that we are discussing this in this Chamber today. But there has, of course, been an agreement there on which we have been agreed and where we say that we should have it examined. That is exactly what we are going to do with that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192022	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192024	Thank you. The Danish People's Party considers this to be a very exciting motion for a resolution tabled by the Left. I also think that the Minister made an excellent speech, but when the debate starts, it almost sounds like you're talking away from each other. That's a little too bad. But what I really want to ask the Minister is about this survey and survey that the Minister is talking about. When's that work gonna be done? For that is where we could probably reach a broad agreement on how to put such a plan into place here, both for the benefit of the business community and indeed for the benefit of the citizens. I mean, we're about to negotiate an infrastructure plan at 160 billion. kr. in relation to runway and road. So it's not like there's no need for these raw materials being extracted out there. So the question is, when is this planning tool ready for us?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192115	But I do not think that we are talking any further away from each other, because if you look at what is wanted, that is exactly what we would like to have examined, it is among other things how we can reuse and recycle materials in the construction process as much as possible, and how we can ensure that we take account of both the environmental and also the economic aspects. And that is what I am hearing again in the explanatory statement, and that is exactly what we have decided to examine in concrete terms. Now the agreement has just been concluded, and that is where we are going to get this work going, among other things. in the Ministry of the Environment, and then we would very much like to return to the questioner with exactly what timetable we can expect. Because I understand that there is of course an interest in this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192159	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192201	Well, that's what's interesting to see when that material is lying. Because there is a lot of politics in it, that is, how to compensate people who live close to them etc. etc. So there is also a lot of politics in it. What I just want to ask the Minister in the end is: does the Minister want to reach a broad agreement on this? Because I really believe that it will mean a great deal to the Danes, but indeed also to the business community, which is going to use these raw materials, that it will be a broad agreement that then lies around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192235	In the government we like broad agreements, and I actually think that the strategy on sustainable construction shows this, because there it is generally the Folketing that stands together on how to create a green conversion of construction, but also on how to take account of the raw materials that are important and where there is both the economics in relation to construction, but also the whole resource, that is, on the environmental side and around the reusable. And there we actually take it in the order that when we're done with this initiative, which, of course, lives in that contract circle, we'll take it. I guess I'm quite natural there too, into the broad contract circle that's about sustainable construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192312	Thank you, Minister. And that is what could become of short remarks. We therefore move on to Mrs Mette Gjerskov from the Social Democratic Party; and she is just getting a minister to rip off the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192342	Thank you for that, President. It is a little strange about the order in which we have on motions for resolutions, because the Minister for the Environment and I are in complete agreement. Nevertheless, I would also like to express an opinion and try to formulate it in some way, so that I do not just repeat what the Minister said. But I think I will actually start by saying that we are a really small country. At the time the ice pushed around what we use as building materials today, it distributed the benefits unequally. When you come as I do from Roskilde, you know that there is something called Roskildegrus. Apparently, we got a very special quality. Of course, you can welcome this, but not all the neighbours are happy about it. I think it is important to say that I have actually talked to people in the regions about this with a raw materials strategy; and I have been out talking to people working with gravel gravels. I think it is really, really important that we should, of course, distribute gravel and stones to those who need building materials in this country, but also that we try as far as possible to take account of neighbors. That is also why, in the agreement on sustainable construction, we have written in what the Minister was reading, so I will not do that, but it is about creating a knowledge base so that we make sure that we make the most use of these resources. We made that agreement a month and a half ago. Then we cannot stand here today and say that we will then skip it and go straight to the conclusion, namely that there must be a strategy for raw materials. None of us knows whether the fact study to be carried out, the knowledge base to be established, will tell us that it was a very good idea to create a national strategy. Well, maybe it is. But to stand today and adopt this would be to do it in the wrong order compared to what we just decided and it's really wide. For it is not only us in the Social Democratic Party, but it is the Left; it is the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Conservatives and the Alternative who have agreed on it. Then we can't skip our own deal. I think that is the biggest appeal I have against the motion for a resolution. I hear that the Minister would very much like to look at the question of neighbours. One could say that something that is at least important to say is that gravel is good, but recycling is even better. I just think it's something strange when you see a gravel pit, so to talk about virginity, but that's what we're saying because it's a resource that can't be renewed. That is why we need to get recycling started. It is also an important element, which must of course also be part of the knowledge base that is being established now. So recycling and recycling are not just things that we need to have in all sorts of other places. In particular, we need to have them for raw materials such as those we have here, which we cannot replace. We have a lot in Roskilde, and we are happy to share it, but of course we need to find solutions that distribute both resource advantages and disadvantages reasonably. I think it is important that we have broad cooperation on sustainable construction, and I think it would be a pity if we were to stand here and actually undermine the agreement that we ourselves made a short time ago, a month and a half ago. At the same time, I would like to stress that we are very concerned about recycling; we are very concerned about the resources we have, which we cannot just conjure up again. The ice may come back sometime, but not just for the time being, giving us some more gravel piles. We simply need to take care of the resources we have. It is also part of the whole thinking of the circular economy. So, despite the fact that it may be sympathetic to a national raw material strategy, I would like to say that I think we should do things in the right order and therefore the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192848	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192853	Thank you. Well, I sense that Mrs. Mette Gjerskov has some sympathy for the ideas behind this proposal, and yet it succeeds in throwing gravel into the machinery, if I may say so. Because there is absolutely no contradiction between the agreement that has been reached and this proposal, and this is in agreement with the rapporteur who has very well negotiated the agreement on our behalf. On the contrary, it is something that is excellently linked. This is a practical piece of work we need to do, to map where we have the resources: how much we can get from the sea; what we have on land around the country, compared to what the need is; how much we have to import; and not least how much we can recycle, and there we have to raise the level. That is why it is a practical piece of work which must in any case be done and which everyone in the industry agrees with. The Danish Regions agree with this, and the municipalities support this. So I do not understand the opposition to it; it is such a procedural thing. Let's get started. It is entirely connected in my world with what has started. There is no contradiction between the agreement and what we are proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427192958	If it were so important for the Left to skip the whole knowledge base and knowledge collection and go straight to the raw materials strategy, I do not understand why the Left did not raise that question in the debate when the agreement was made. And I certainly do not want us to talk further away from each other here, but when you have decided that we actually need a better knowledge base here, and you have done so widely in the Folketing, I just have to ask: if now only the Left and the Social Democrats sat down and said: Well now we are making a raw materials strategy, what about all the other parties with which we have made an agreement? Well, now we've made the deal we've decided on that order, and I think we should stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193049	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193051	Well now it is fortunate that there is complete coincidence, because the prerequisite for making a strategy is that you have knowledge. So the first step in the plan is actually in the National Strategy for Sustainable Construction, and there is no contradiction, it is in direct continuation of what we agree on and want to see, namely that it should result in a national strategy so that we get the overview we need so badly because our raw materials will soon run out. That is what is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193116	I mean, if we were sure it would lead to a national strategy now I wouldn't rule it out, but if we were sure about that, why didn't we write it into the agreement? We haven't done that. Obviously, it could be done in other ways. It could be that you could see it in other ways. We have to assume that we have five regions, so it might as well be that they somehow got together and came up with something. I don't know. I am just saying that we have made an agreement, and I think that we should actually stick to it; that is the right order.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193156	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193200	Thank you. Does the rapporteur not think it is important to know exactly how much raw material we have on land and at sea, in relation to all the political decisions we make? This is true, for example. right now, when transport is being negotiated and where roads are a large part of the project coming from the government. It is, knowing that we are already using too many raw materials in relation to what we can afford if we do not want to borrow from our children and grandchildren's raw materials.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193231	That is exactly what I was trying to say, so that the ice does not come back with any more gravel just now. That is why we have nothing more than what we now have. And of course it is true that it is important to know where it is. That is, in fact, the responsibility of the regions; it is precisely to do that mapping. But we have then agreed that we should create a proper knowledge base, so we are absolutely sure that we are doing the right thing. I really think that's okay; it's just about knowing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193305	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193308	Are the regions also responsible for registering and determining how many raw materials we have to lie in our sea? Because it's a big part of this, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193319	Well, now we're in a technicality that I'm not sure I have to answer, because then you have to be 100% sure about how it is compared to fjords, how it is compared to other. I wouldn't dare answer that one hundred percent. But what I can at least say is that when it comes to the marine sector, it is very much the environment, i.e. the fish, the animals, the plants, that is the challenge. On land, the fact that there are neighbours and, of course, the limited resource is more challenging.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193408	Thank you to Mrs Mette Gjerskov. There are no more brief comments in this round. Then the platform will have to be spritted off, and Mrs. Mette Gjerskov will even have to drink off to a DF's, Mr. René Christensen. Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193451	Thank you for that, President. As I also said when I asked the Minister questions, this is a proposal which we think is very sympathetic and is also an important proposal. There is no doubt that there is a need for us to have a national overview of where we have our raw materials, particularly rocks and gravel, and as the proposal says, and as the rapporteur has also said, this is about both land and water. It is about how we do it in harmony with nature and the environment, but also about how we do it in harmony with the citizens affected by it and how we do it in harmony with the professions in the areas. It may be fishermen, it may be farmers, and it may be so many others. Then there's another thing in it, and that's this about compensation. If we have any instances out there, is that all of them we have to take forward? So, what are the challenges and what are the benefits of creating a new gravel pit, for example, in relation to the surrounding society? There we clearly believe that when we have the overview, there is, of course, the possibility of having a lot of political priorities in terms of how you think it should be done, but that when you do not have the overview, it is difficult to take that discussion. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister says that the study on making the decision-making basis is under way and that a broad agreement will be reached. In any case, the Danish People's Party would like to be a part of this, which is why we can vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. It was something you might be able to make an account of or something. In any case, we would like to be involved in this, so we are sure that it will also be followed to the door, and so that it will not be something that we will forget all of a sudden, because it would not be so good if we did. So we can support the proposal and we would very much like to help make a report in committee if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193649	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Signe Munk from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427193715	Overall, it makes sense that we should have an overall national view of the raw materials strategy and that we should have an overall view of the regional planning of the area. Our starting point, however, is a little different than the motion for a resolution, because, for SF to see, there is an urgent need to pursue the track of reducing the consumption of virgin resources, reducing demand and also ensuring that there is, of course, a systematic mapping of where the raw material resources available both on land and at sea are. However, we cannot continue the same exploitation of new resources as we have done historically. We need to have a new agenda, as we do, for example. in the sustainable construction strategy, which is also mentioned. But it's all about a lot more. That is, after all, a radically different way of looking at resources. Good elements in the motion for a resolution include the fact that systematic mapping is good, that coherent planning is good and that it is also good to focus on the neighbours living next to the graves of raw materials. If there are other members of parliament in this Chamber who have experienced contact by citizens living close to the tombs of raw materials, they will have seen that citizens are sometimes put in very difficult situations where their house may be in danger of falling drastically in value while the tomb of raw materials just grows and grows. In addition, there is, of course, also a focus on the recycling of resources, but this is not a fundamental prerequisite. What is missing from the proposal for SF is that an increase in raw materials tax is also being addressed, because it will have an effect on the consumption of virgin resources. Basically, we also need to look at nature recovery and the obligation to take care of nature and, in general, to improve the nature and biodiversity that you leave behind when you have made extraction of raw materials • not only to take account of, but to put the important considerations at the forefront of permits, also for new extractions of raw materials. In addition, we are also very opposed to the idea of reducing the disposal of surplus land, because it can be difficult to control the cleanliness of these lands and that there must also be more relaxed rules for new extraction of raw materials. Our focus is more on the need for tighter criteria for obtaining a new permit for raw materials and extraction permits. This is, overall, the SF's assessment of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194011	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194013	Thank you to Mrs Signe Munk for her kind words. After all, there were a number of elements in the proposal that the SF likes, and we are of course pleased about that. However, I think that the rapporteur should read our section on recycling, because that is where we really gave it gas. We want much, much more of that. We want ambitious, realistic targets for recycling, and that is precisely what we need to spare virgin raw materials, because they will soon run out. So that's why the SF has been granted. With regard to landfill land, I would also like to accommodate SF, because I know it means a lot to you to save transport. It's something with CO2 and we can save a lot of transport if we can deposit completely clean land with a dash under clean ground • into gravel gravel gravel, because then you have read with both roads, if I may say so. It must, of course, be under the necessary control. So with these concessions I don't really see there's a contradiction between SF's approach to this and ours. Could we not meet in a report where we can clarify some things together?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194116	Basically, I have to deal with the motion for a resolution before us. In addition, it can be said that discussing raw materials strategy is a relatively complicated exercise, which I am pleased that the Left is launching this motion for a resolution. After all, talking about recycling is one element; it is another to talk about direct recycling and what is the premise that is being put forward for the forecast of raw materials and the further consumption of raw materials. So it can therefore be said that mentioning the word recycling does not mean that we have the same understanding of how much it should be weighted. In addition, there is also a need for a stronger projection basis to find out exactly where we are. And in the discussion that is then about surplus land, I understand the argument that you can save some driving. The opposite argument is that you can say that the soil is clean, but what if it is not clean and it cannot be properly controlled and it has a negative effect on another parameter?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194213	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194215	We must help each other to ensure that. We will not accept dirty soil in the gravel pits. However, in terms of recycling, it is actually quite detailed that it is about recycling and upcycling, and reference is made to some reports that show the potential. So we are very much involved in rewriteing something exactly and doing something about it with SF. And this again goes hand in hand with our agreement on sustainable construction. It's just a small superstructure in this area called raw materials, which I think we together across the Folketing can make something really good out of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194244	Basically, there is also a need to see the use of raw materials wider than construction. That is why the agreement on sustainable construction cannot be left alone and, in reality, it should also have a much stronger deal in the direction of recycling rather than recycling. That is one of the challenges of that agreement if we are to be honest. That is why we also need a broad look at what we can do to reduce the consumption of virgin resources, and that is why we believe, for example. also that increasing the raw material tax is in fact an important element in screwing up the economic incentives not to use virgin resources but to use recycled resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194321	Thank you to Mrs Signe Munk. There are no more brief comments. I would like to welcome Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194354	Thank you. I think that the debate has already highlighted the need for a national strategy on raw materials, with the many different elements that belong to such a strategy, and which, in fact, I think the authors of the motion for a resolution, the Left, have described very well. However, this is an area in which we must also take hands, and we do not intend to disfellowship the government by voting in favour of the resolution as it is now before us. On the other hand, we would very much like to communicate good cooperation on a joint report, because I think that we can do so with all the different perspectives that have been mentioned today. I would just like to call on the government to cooperate constructively with the proposers and the other parties to draw up a joint report so that we can land one with the aim of achieving a national raw materials strategy. I think it would be strange if the Folketing could not agree that it is needed, despite the fact that the order may be a little illogical. That is what our regionalists across the party have been saying to us for many years. But I think it should be done properly. The government should not have it forced down over its head with a certain wording; I think that is something we should put together and do so that we also have the different perspectives. So no to the resolution as it stands, but yes to a joint report. And I have no doubt that we can. Hopefully, when we can do with our votes that there is a majority for such a report, the government will work constructively to land one as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194549	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194552	I would like to thank and acknowledge the pragmatic and constructive approach. Because this is not about having a minority government; it doesn't matter, because the people can't do anything about it. We need practical solutions, and we can easily find each other with a report. Sometimes we talk a lot about the process here at Christiansborg. But thank you very much for the constructive approach. I am sure that we can come up with a good report together and we look forward to the radical input to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194623	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194625	Thank you to Mrs. Zenia Stampe and welcome to Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen from Enhedslisten, The red-green.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194652	I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution, which we see in the Enhedslisten a lot of good tactics. In the Enhedslisten, we agree that there is a need for a synthesis and cross-cutting raw materials strategy that thinks in terms of regions, municipalities and the raw materials industry. The Enhedslisten also agrees that a raw material strategy must be based on a systematic mapping that ensures that as many raw materials as possible are recycled in the most optimal way. At the same time, we would also like to see the recycling of raw materials and materials going even further than we could agree on in the recently agreed agreement on a strategy for sustainable construction, which has also been mentioned, and we would of course like to press for this, just as we would like to see the use of substitutions rather than virgin raw materials being used in construction, for example wood. We agree with the proposers that it is a very good idea to think about climate considerations in terms of the transport of raw materials. Sand and gravel are, by their very nature, heavy to carry. In addition, we appreciate that consideration for neighbours is being given to the process of extraction of raw materials. However, the resolution also states that more sustainable use of raw materials should be attractive to the developer, as well as a focus on logistics and availability of raw materials. At the same time, the proposers want a national raw materials strategy to include a fitness check of rules which constitute a barrier to the excavation of raw materials. These barriers are inter alia: the Nature Conservation Act and the Environmental Protection Act, that is to say rules designed to protect our already enormously pressured environment and nature. Neither the Nature Conservation Act nor the Environmental Protection Act should be subject to future mining activities but should continue to aim to ensure that they are carried out in a sound manner. It is clear here that the proposers believe that it is primarily the industry and the construction that you want to help, and not nature. In the Enhedslisten, we want to start from another point of view, namely in the green transition, and that a national raw materials strategy should be based on the ecological room for manoeuvre that exists and not, as it is today, on consumption. We want resources to be recycled to a much greater extent and to minimise the burden on our environment and nature as much as possible. This is what a national raw material strategy should be used for and not for streamlining supply chains and kicking natural laws to the corner. We therefore agree that there is a need for a national strategy on raw materials, but not on the basis of what the Left is proposing here, and that is why the Enhedslisten cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194934	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427194945	I would like to thank you for your kind reception of the proposal. A number of things were listed, which are, in fact, a common denominator between the Left and the Enhedslisten in this matter, and I can then reassure you that, in relation to this rule check, it is not the case that it should completely clear away all considerations of nature. It has to be to see if there can be some adjustments in the rules so that, on the one hand, we meet our needs for raw materials, but, on the other hand, we also minimise transport in relation to other considerations. These are things that move in different directions, and it's natural that all of this gets a check, but not to subdue nature and the environment. At least I can guarantee that. But with the positive words that came from the Enhedslisten, can we count on Enhedslisten being prepared to enter into negotiations on a report in which the Enhedslisten's wishes will, of course, also have to be met?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427195031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427195034	We would very much like to see whether we can land a joint report. However, as I have just mentioned, there are a few thistles that must of course be lured out before Enhedslisten can join in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427195044	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. And now that he has spritted the platform, Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party is ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427195107	Thank you. And thank you for the motion for a resolution. It is the case that today we do not have a comprehensive plan for the extraction of raw materials in Denmark. The State takes care of planning and permits at sea, while the regions individually make planning and permit the extraction of raw materials on land. The five regions are not obliged to coordinate planning across regional boundaries and there is no coordination between recovery at sea and recovery on land. Well, I thought first of all when I started reading this. This is, in fact, very strange, since resources are limited, as the regions themselves mention. In Denmark we extract stones, gravel, clay and lime from our underground, and until 2040 we actually expect an increase in raw material consumption of more than 50%. This is mainly due to increasing demand from the construction industry, which uses the raw materials for, among other things. cement and concrete. This alone, of course, provides a need for a stronger focus on how we use and recycle the raw materials from the Danish underground, also because it is so that when the regions today build a gravel pit, it is of great importance to the people who live around it, as among other things. Mrs Signe Munk mentioned. So there is also a need for greater clarity in the planning phase around where and when raw materials are to be recovered. At the same time, a national raw material strategy will ensure better use of the raw materials we have, including more sustainable use, which can stretch resources longer and make the construction of new gravel gravel gravel sites more transparent, so that citizens and local authorities have a long-term plan and overview of where future gravel pits should be located. Finally, we also think that we must ensure that nature is again allowed to take back former raw material graves in order to promote biodiversity and recreational areas. The Conservative People's Party therefore believes that a national strategy for the extraction of raw materials should contain just such points. And let me take this opportunity to mention some of them. Firstly, there is something about better co-thinking across the country. The recovery of raw materials on land takes place in the vast majority of cases in the region where raw materials are to be used, and there is no requirement for the regions to cooperate in planning recovery. It doesn't necessarily provide the best extraction. For example: The Capital Region cannot supply all the raw materials needed to supply raw materials for the construction activities in Copenhagen. The plant materials must be transported and it is very much from the rest of Zealand. A new common strategy for recovery will provide a new and better opportunity to coordinate across the country and between land and sea recovery. In this respect, account must be taken of the cost-effective transport of raw materials, which is why they must be brought close to construction and not necessarily within the borders of the region. Another point is this neighbourly concern and concern for more nature. Better planning across the country will create this transparency for the neighbours affected by recovery and give more nature when the raw material graves are closed. We must take account of the neighbours by cooperating with the industry and sketching out the potential extraction of raw materials in Denmark for many years to come, and this must ensure that the industry gets the raw materials it needs and that the neighbours of the excavation know in good time where and when their local areas are laid out for mining. At the same time, we must ensure that nature is allowed to take in previous raw material graves, so that we deliver back at least as much nature as we take when we recover raw materials. We must do this through public partnerships, organisations and local forces. There is also something about analyses of long-term raw materials needs. We must make the best use of raw materials. In Denmark we have so far been largely self-sufficient in classical raw materials, but it is not certain that we can continue to be so. There are no inexhaustible sources. If we continue to use stones and gravel at the present rate, we will exhaust our resources. Therefore, in preparing the national strategy, a long-term analysis needs to be made of the possibility of offering areas for recovery and its demand. In the light of this, a long-term plan for the use of raw materials should be drawn up to provide citizens with additional transparency in relation to where and when. Finally, there must also be something about continuing to focus on the recycling of raw materials. It has also been mentioned here from the platform. A national raw materials strategy must, of course, contain a continued focus on the recycling of construction waste and on the circular economy. This is an area that we are relatively good at in Denmark, but also an area where we need to maintain focus. Currently we recycle 80-85 per cent. of construction waste and waste from demolition work in Denmark. The latter is often filled with chemicals and therefore not something we can just use immediately. So the focus should be on the Danish raw materials on land and at sea being used in the most lucrative and sustainable way. Secondary raw materials, including construction waste, should instead be used for, for example, road pavement, etc. So, overall, Conservatives, like the proposers, believe that a national raw materials strategy will ensure better coordination of recovery across the country, take account of neighbours and ensure more nature. So let's just get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427195543	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we sneak up our sleeves and go straight to work! But before that, we have to put the next rapporteur on the floor, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427195559	Thank you. The proposal we are discussing here proposes to start work on drawing up a national raw materials strategy in addition to the regions' current raw materials planning. It shall ensure a mapping and an overview of Denmark's available raw materials and the potential for increased recycling of raw materials, as well as an inventory of society's foreseen raw materials needs. There is a limited amount of raw materials in Denmark and we must make the best use of our resources. That is why it is also important that we focus on recycling and recycling, and we must take account of neighbours, nature conservation, the environment and the economy. It makes good sense to create an overall overview at national level in addition to regional planning in the form of a national raw materials strategy, so New Citizen's motion for a resolution B 165 can therefore be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427195653	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We now move on to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427195715	Thank you. We are currently using raw materials from what is equivalent to four globes. This means that a large part of the raw materials we use are raw materials that we actually steal from our children and grandchildren and the next generations. That is why we in the Green Group are also deeply concerned about the traffic plan that exists for new motorways, wider motorways and more new roads, by the way. As the Minister began by saying, 70% will be paid. of our raw materials used for roads, so that is highly worrying. That is why we also very much need to have an overview of what raw materials we actually have, both at sea and on land, and it is very sensible to follow up developments every four years so that we can see what direction the development is taking and there needs to be a change so that we do not continue to use more and more. In general, we need to focus more on recycling and recycling, which is why it is also positive that sustainable construction has been looked at and that it is based on recycling and not least recycling, but it is something we can do even better. A working group will be set up to include representatives from Danish Raw Materials, Danish Industry, Danish Waterworks, etc., in addition to the ministries, and we propose that a non-governmental organisation or a natural organisation such as this should also be included. DN or WWF with you, because this is very much about nature. In the Free Greens, we would very much like to use fewer raw materials than what is being proposed from the Left, among other things. because we have a lot of focus on how we take of future generations of raw materials. But the inventory of what our raw materials look like right now, both on land and at sea, is very much needed, and we would very much like to enter into a debate on a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427195927	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427195930	I would very much like to thank Susanne Zimmer for her kind reception of the proposal and the words that we need to get this overview, also for the sake of nature and the environment. So I sign for it. And then I'm going to correct a misunderstanding. It is not an end in itself for the Left to use as many raw materials as possible, on the contrary. We would like to economise with them and we would also like to recycle as much as possible. We just want to build the infrastructure that society needs, for example. cycling trails and railways and some roads, and that requires some raw materials, as do the constructions we see when we build day-care institutions, housing, etc. around the country. So we need raw materials. However, I acknowledge that the Free Greens would like to be included in a report on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427200021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427200022	It is clear that we have some disagreements, and that is fair enough. We would also like to use raw materials for bike paths and railways not so many for roads, not to say any. Buildings we would like to see much more wood being used in. But we're ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427200045	Thank you. And then we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers. I'm sure most of them have guessed that it's Mr. Knox. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, and Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen comes from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427200109	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking you for a very good debate on our raw materials. I think that has been encouraging. There is no doubt that raw materials are an incredibly important but also scarce resource, just as many resources are. That is why we must take care of them, and we must treat them with care, and we must increase recycling; there is no doubt about that. But society has to have the resources of raw materials: stone, gravel, sand, squirt, lime, clay. This is all something we urgently need in everyday life if our society is to be able to function and, above all, if we are to be able to cope with the construction that society needs. That's why we're going to get a better overview of this. The regions have been doing a good job in this area for many years. After all, it is the regions that are responsible for the raw materials on land, but we also know that there are some challenges. For example, in Region Sjælland you have Roskilde in one corner, and Roskilde, as Mrs Gjerskov indicated, is quite burdened with gravel graves. There's a lot of people out there, and there's a lot of people getting gravel there because that's where the gravel is. Much of it is taken to the capital, and there are many in Roskilde who cannot understand why in the world they must be burdened with all the gravel pits when it is inside the capital, they use the gravel. That is, I think, an example of us having to lift it up and try to look at it from a national perspective and see if we can solve it in a different way. For example: I am sure that ports will be able to play a much greater role in managing our raw materials if we can sail it onto the quay edge and then there is a short driving distance to where it is to be used. Then we have made a great deal of money both in terms of logistics, but also in terms of the environment and climate. So there are really some possibilities in this, but it requires that we have at a national level mapped out how many raw materials we have available on land and on water and how many we can recycle. There we are committed to being ambitious in the wake of our good agreement on sustainable construction • hurrah for it. There's no contradiction with this, no one, absolutely! So I don't think we should start painting. But let's get this mapped out. Let's get a map of where the expected consumption will be. We know that there is building activity around the country; it is violent in the capital, less violent elsewhere in the country, and we know that there will be some infrastructure around the corner until 2035. So I'm looking forward to getting started doing this piece of mathematical work where it's about getting it into a higher unit and then minimising the transportation of it. I think that is very important. Then we need to connect some other dimensions. It has been mentioned that we can minimise transport when we get the overview. Ports must have a strengthened role. And then there's the recycling. We really must give that gas around, and there the regions have played in with a lot of good things. The industry itself has many ideas on how to get a greener construction work. This is one of the things we intend to highlight in future infrastructure negotiations. For some strange reason, the government has forgotten in its proposal for infrastructure to focus on CO2 Well, one has focus on traffic afterwards, although it is only a short transition period until we get green cars, but the plant itself, where there is actually large CO2 2 So let's get this overview. Let us have this survey, also because it is different bodies that are responsible today, namely the state, which has some of it, and the regions something else. It can be believed that the regions are saying: what is this? Are we now going to interfere in this from the national point of view? But that's not what they say. I have had good meetings with Danske Regions about it, and they very much welcome the fact that we have such planning, and I can really understand that, because it gives the regions better working conditions in the end. Then there's the stuff about the landfill of land we've mentioned. Of course, unclean soil should not be deposited in any way in the gravel pits, but if we can find a way, and that is what we are putting up for, so that the truck can take clean soil with one way, and when it comes down to the gravel pit and has unloaded it, then it takes gravel with the other way, then it would reduce the overall transport work enormously. It is thousands of trucks every day that we are talking about, and it is worth working out whether there is any potential. And then, of course, we have to find a way to check that only clean soil enters the gravel pits. Then there's the relationship with the neighbors. We know there are conflicts there. There are some neighbors who are tired of gravel being dug. It's noisy and it's dusty sometimes. There's a lot of traffic on the roads. That is where we think that, as part of the work of this working party, we should look at some models of how we can take account of our neighbours. Can some account be taken of the municipalities, which happen to be favoured with very gravel and rocks, so that in the strain on their roads, some special consideration can be taken into account? It is, of course, just in order for it to become an important part of such a national strategy without having a ready-made formula on it in advance, and we need good people to look at that. Who are the good people? Well, we mentioned them here. These are the relevant ministries. At least I can think of four. Then, of course, Danske Regioner will have to enter it. The National Association of Municipalities must also be included. And then we have Danish Industry, Danish Raw Materials, Danish Waterworks, and if there are others that are relevant, then of course we must also include them in the work. Then I'll bring you some good news. The good news is that when you're done digging gravel into an area, for example. In Roskilde there will probably be a few years before there can be a fantastic natural area that can become a human breathhole, a piece of nature with lots of biodiversity etc., and we already see this around the country, where old gravel gravels have turned into something really appreciated and beautiful nature, and that is on the other side of it. So there is like light or something green at the end of the tunnel, if I may say so, and that is the good news we must also remember to have in this national strategy. I would like to sign for the relatively positive reception. Many parties have been positive; some are willing to vote for it. I think we should land this with a report in which we try to reconcile the many wise things that have been said here from the platform. When you sit here and listen to it a little bit, we're 90 percent. Agreed on this. So let's not make artificial contradictions about that. It is a piece of internship that the Danish people expect us to do, which is why we just have to get started, as someone said. I think it was Mrs. Mona Juul. I totally agree. Let us get started on this, and it is a great thing that the agreement on sustainable construction has just launched what we need, namely some knowledge. Well, before you make a plan and strategy, it's good to have some knowledge. Otherwise, we'll grope blindly. So it is well connected, and now I look forward to discussing a report on it here in committee. Thank you for a very good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427200837	You're welcome. But it is not quite over yet, because there is one brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427200844	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's burning speech. I would like to know whether the rapporteur and the Left have a pain limit in relation to how much raw material we can take out of the soil? I mean, right now we're going to take up four times as much as we can actually take up if we don't want to exhaust the resources in relation to our future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427200903	The border is at least where we cannot take up more than there is. But that's a rather sloppy answer. In other words, we need raw materials, which is why it is also important that we get a map of how much we have exactly left. Well, there's about an overview of that, but we're going to have more than 12 years to go. We need to get the long light on and see it with a time horizon of 30 years, 40 years; then we need to look at how we can have society's needs met within that time horizon. There I foresee that the level of recycling will rise sharply in the coming years, that is, because we are getting better at it, and we need to stay that way. For example: In the metropolitan area, virgin raw materials will be released in a few years' time. There is something that suggests that in 6-7 years' time there will be no more to pick up in the metropolitan area, and Sjælland will follow very quickly, whereas North Jutland is quite well run with raw materials. And so it is unequally distributed in the country. But I don't have such a firm limit on how much we can dig up. However, I am certainly sure that society needs raw materials, and that is where we need to meet the need, whether it be recycling or other. At the end of the day, we can also talk about imports of raw materials, but that is not the solution either, because then we are simply exporting the problem. So we must try to find a national plan that meets Denmark's needs for raw materials.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427201018	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427201020	So far along the way we agree, but is it acceptable that in 50 years' time, in 100 years' time, we may have no raw materials in the soil?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427201031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427201032	No, that's a bad thought. But I also believe that when you look at the history of the world and the ingenuity of human beings, when there is a shortage, you learn naked woman to spin, and what we have, that is, in 50 years' time we have some completely different methods, so that we meet our needs in other ways, perhaps by 100 percent. recycling, etc. And that's where we're going. But in the years to come we still need a certain amount of virgin raw materials, and that is what we are talking about getting better planned, so that we extend what we have left much longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427201106	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. There are no more brief comments. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen Should I drink off?). Yes, thank you, because we have two more matters on today's agenda, so we have to keep to the standard. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427201156	The negotiations have been opened and I would like to welcome the Minister for the Environment back to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427201207	Thank you for that, and thank you to the proposers for focusing on an important topic. We share the ambition with the proposers to ensure cleaner air in Denmark. Denmark has experienced a marked fall in air pollution over the past 30 years. Both air quality measurements and emissions inventories show that things are going the right way. The latest air surveillance report from Aarhus University also confirms this. Overall, air quality in Denmark is among the best in Europe. However, the fall in air pollution does not change the fact that over 4,600 Danes die prematurely or suffer from air pollution each year, especially in the larger cities, and that traffic is one of the dominant sources. The WHO has declared that soot from diesel vehicles is carcinogenic. Therefore, it also makes sense to reduce particulate pollution from diesel vehicles in the largest Danish cities. In the resolution we are debating today, the Enhedslisten proposes that before November of this year the Danish Parliament instructs the government to put forward the necessary legislative proposals to allow municipalities to include diesel passenger cars on the one hand, and to establish zero-emission zones in the neighbourhoods on the other, and on the other hand, to put an end to the right of veto of the police on traffic changes. The government and I, as Minister for the Environment, take air pollution and our health very seriously. In concrete terms, we have worked to reduce air pollution, also with the proposers, by among other things. update the environmental zones with advanced step requirements for heavy vehicles and have implemented automated digital enforcement of environmental zones, ensuring better enforcement. We have also adopted a law on the replacement of the oldest wood stoves at the time of change of ownership and an agreement with agriculture to reduce ammonia emissions. The Government, together with Enhedslisten, Radical Left and SF, has reaffirmed the desire to strengthen environmental areas, most recently in the agreement on the green transition of road transport from December last year. I would also like to discuss environmental areas when the parties agree, including giving funding. The Municipality of Copenhagen, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Environment have concluded a climate cooperation agreement on green public transport, which includes: includes an approach to examine how zero emission zones can be established as an experimental scheme. The government finds the idea of zero emission zones interesting and is also positive in looking at concrete opportunities to allow municipalities to establish zero emission zones, but there is also a lack of clear instructions for funding here. The Municipality of Copenhagen has just sent a concept note to the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Transport, and I very much appreciate that. The Ministry of the Environment is looking at the memo and the proposal from the municipality for a further dialogue between the municipality, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Transport and also to assess the consequences of zero emission zones. The municipality itself proposes that the rules should take effect from 2025. I hope that we can have a dialogue in the future on means of action for the municipalities' action on cleaner air. There are still outstanding issues about the concrete administrative model, how the proposal can be delimited and what concrete action needs to be taken in relation to the companies and citizens who have to have access to the areas in question. In addition, as I said, the import of zero-emission zones also requires funding. In relation to the last part, i.e. the police's right of veto over traffic changes, it is the transport minister's area of responsibility. The Ministry of Transport has indicated that the proposal to deprive the police of its right of veto on local traffic changes raises some issues, in particular because the authorisation in the Road Traffic Act to make local traffic changes covers a wide range of measures which may have a major impact on general traffic flow, including the availability and road safety. The government is aware of the municipalities' desire to be more able to organise the use of urban space themselves and also the design and exploitation of the roads. The government generally supports greater freedom for municipalities to control the use of roads when it can be balanced in terms of road safety, accessibility and traffic flow. That is why we have also recently proposed, as part of the government's infrastructure plan, that municipalities should be allowed to introduce car-free streets themselves on Sundays from 8 a.m. 9:00 to 20:00 in the country's largest cities. The aim is to ensure a new use of urban space, which places more space for cultural activities on Sundays, where the needs of traffic are less and where there is therefore no need to weight the importance of accessibility and traffic flow to the same degree as in everyday life. As part of its security agenda, the government has a major focus on improving road safety for, among other things. the vulnerable road users. It is therefore being worked out that the municipalities should be given much greater opportunity to lower the speed limits locally in the cities. In relation to whether the police should have a more consultative role when it comes to changes in the use of local roads other than speed limits, the Ministry of Transport has recently examined police practices and administration of the applicable rules where police consent is required. Data have been obtained from police circles and they show that there is generally no problem with the current structure or administration where the police have to give consent. Only in 2-3 per cent. of the cases, the police refused consent to the local authorities' proposals for a change in the use of a local road. KL has reported that they have found no reason to question police data. In addition to the introduction of an opportunity for municipalities to introduce car-free Sundays and greater access for municipalities to reduce local speed in urban areas, the government therefore considers that there is no need to change the existing rules where the police must consent to changes to the local road network. Against this background, the government cannot support the resolution, but, as I said, agrees with the proposers of the intention to combat air pollution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427201817	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427201822	Thank you. After all, the government has been sitting for almost two years and congratulations on that, but despite that, there has still not been any stricter environmental zones in Denmark. It's in the understanding paper that we've made together. I would very much like it if the Minister for the Environment would explain both to me and to the rest of the Danish Parliament when it is intended that we should actually tighten up the environmental zones, as there is a great desire for, among other things. from the Mayor of Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427201856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427201856-2	I can quite understand the question, because it is true that we have produced a common understanding paper, and that is what we stand by. We have also confirmed here, most recently in the agreement we made on green road transport, that we share this ambition. However, as I also mentioned, we have already taken a number of initiatives, so of course this is something we are working on. I mentioned here with the environmental zones in relation to heavy traffic, where we have brought forward the step-in phase, that we have got better enforcement and that we have adopted the law on wood stoves. So we have addressed the problem, but there is no doubt that we also need to take new steps, and I hope that we can do so, of course, together with the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427201944	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427201945	Unfortunately, I did not quite get an answer to my question about when we should then have stricter environmental zones, so that also applies to the oldest diesel cars. But what I really wanted to hear about more, here in the second round, is what the Minister really lacks to know, because in the resolution text or report text that we adopted last year it was suggested that there were some different things to be examined. What more does the Minister need to find out?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202023	In addition to the question of the timetable, I mentioned that there are also costs, that is to say financing, which must be found jointly, and that is also what has emerged from the joint text on which we agreed, including in the case of green road transport, so that when we agree on funding, we agree on the ambition that lies there. Then I also mentioned that in relation to the zero emission zones, the City of Copenhagen has been looking at this concept note that we have got into the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Transport, and there are still a number of elements in it that need to be investigated. So since we last discussed it, a number of things have actually happened on that agenda, but there is still a need to get it delved into.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202109	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202113	Thank you very much. Thanks for the speech. Is the Minister in doubt that emissions from diesel cars pose a considerable health risk to Danes in many cities? And if the Minister has no doubt about that, why is it necessary to investigate it more?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202138	In relation to the environmental zones that I mentioned and the whole problem of diesel vehicles, I myself quoted the WHO as regards the carcinogenic effect that it might have. And that is precisely why we have also focused partly on heavy traffic, where there is now progress on step requirements and partly on enforcement. After all, we have also reaffirmed the ambition of the parties with which we have also produced an understanding paper, but that requires funding, and that is what we have agreed to point out. Compared to the zero emission zones, we have received the concept note from the City of Copenhagen, and the need for more dialogue between the municipality, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Transport was also pointed out in relation to how it would actually be possible to do so. So since we last met, a good job has been done in the City of Copenhagen, but there are still elements that need to be examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202236	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202237	Now the Minister is talking a lot about funding, and I wonder what it is that costs something. Should we not make a model with parts of this proposal which simply allow municipalities to have greater self-determination over whether or not they will allow the discharge of diesel particles and then say to them that they must finance it themselves? Well, you could just give them the chance to do it at least. They can then stop doing so and not pay if they do not want to, but they could be given the opportunity to finance it themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202310	Now this is being asked about funding, and that is how a number of things we want to do in the green area too. We have a great many ambitions, and I also think that we have come a very long way, not only in relation to the subject we are discussing today, but also when we look at climate, environment, nature and some of the things we have also received a green mandate from the Danes. But when it takes funding, it is one of them. in relation to the loss of revenue in relation to the enforcement that must be carried out in environmental areas, which are, after all, state-owned. So that is something to be financed, and it is clear that it would have been easier if we did not have to. But that is the way it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202348	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There are no more brief comments. And if the Minister wants to prepare for the party colleague Mrs Camille Fabricius with a despriting, that would be nice. Welcome to Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202413	Thank you, sir. President. I would say that I am really happy to be back in the green area. I'm filling in for our environmental rapporteur and I've been on the city council in one of the major cities where the proposers come up with suggestions about here.I'm from Aarhus, I'd say, if you can't hear it in the dialect, and I'm also a glowing cyclist. So in this way there are many things in this proposal that are extremely relevant, namely the concern about how air pollution is going in the big cities. As the Minister also points out very clearly, it is a clear ambition on the part of the government that we need to reduce air pollution because too many people simply die too soon. We can also see that there are more sources of air pollution than just our cars. There are wood stoves and ships, and there is the wind that blows over the water and unfortunately leads harmful substances with it from our neighbours. Therefore, the resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten to require the government to submit a legislative proposal allowing municipalities to establish zero-emission zones in relation to diesel cars cannot be supported as it stands here. And I'd like to put a little more words on that. The fight against air pollution is really complex, and when we look at where it comes from, we also have to take action in several places. We have already introduced, as the Minister has also made clear, a requirement that there should be a replacement or even a looping of wood-burning furnaces from before 2003 in connection with the change of ownership of housing. We know very well that the Danes like to fire up in their wood stoves, but we also know that, as the Minister has also said, the Danes have given us a green mandate to be forward-looking for Denmark. We need clean air, clean water and clean food. We need to tighten up legislation and we have also taken a number of strong initiatives, for example. when we reached an agreement on green road transport in December. And it will be a repeat, but I have to say that the Minister has been extremely clear about what we have achieved, namely that we have ensured that we allow municipalities to introduce car-free streets. And then perhaps my colleagues here in the Folketing could make the point that my own hometown was not very enthusiastic about that opportunity, and that actually testifies to the fact that we have to do these initiatives in cooperation with the municipalities. We therefore need to involve the country, involve our colleagues in the municipal councils, to find out what the right solutions are. We look forward to discussing the proposal very carefully in committee and we would also very much like to make it clear to the authors that we want to fight air pollution together with the proposers and that both what I have pointed out here today and what the Minister has said is that we are in the process, but that we need to do even more. We have continued to work well with the Enhedslisten, and I hope that this time too we will be able to produce a good report which will give Denmark a good direction and will give the Danes even less air pollution, and I look forward to the cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202825	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202830	Thank you. In any case, it can be said that the Social Democratic rapporteur's party colleague just over at the City Hall, Lord Mayor Lars Weiss, has asked and asked if he could not be allowed to create zero emission zones. He has, because it is a way of reducing CO2 I would like to hear the rapporteur: why is it that Lars Weiss and, indeed, mayors and councillors of all other councils should not have that opportunity now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202912	Thank you for your question and also thank you for tabling the motion for a resolution. Basically, as the mayor has also made clear, it is very important that we get the work done, that Danes in cities too can breathe really freely, and that it should not be at the risk of their lives. When we have pointed out that we need to look at it a little more, it is also, as the Minister says, because there is some economic connection with it. So we need to find a model that is profitable and that together we also find funding to achieve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202950	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427202952	I think that both the green transition is urgent, but it is also important to avoid 900 people dying of harmful particles from traffic every year. But one more question at the other end: does the rapporteur agree that zero-emission zones can actually help to push the green transition by the fact that vans and buses and others are actually going to be able to get into the areas that could be the case, namely.com's cars, which are actually going around now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203030	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203030-2	There is at least something that suggests that when you make restrictions in this way there are also examples of it in larger cities in Germany, Freiburg and others who in fact have some city centers that can do something else and where the transport to the centre is being made by some other places then it makes sense to look at which way we should go. That is one of the things we can discuss in committee. And I am quite sure that we will have a good solution, which can also be lasting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203105	Thank you. Was the sentence finished? Camilla Fabricius Yes). Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203112	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Now the Minister mentioned three times in his speech that one of the problems of supporting this proposal was a lack of funding, and when I asked what it was that was to be financed by the state, it was about revenue losses on enforcement. I would like to hear from you, using it so clearly as an argument, what is the estimated revenue loss on enforcement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203140	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203141	I might as well say that I must be guilty of your answer. But I think we should discuss it in committee, and then we can ask the Minister questions. When you intervene with regard to the way in which the municipalities are organised and look at what it is that the conversion of vehicles in this way will be possible, then perhaps there will also be some phasing-out that is taking place more quickly. But that's where I'm gonna have to be your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203213	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203215	I do not doubt that it will cost something, but I would probably think that the health costs that would be associated with treating people for the damage related to diesel cars emissions will cover it to a large extent. So I can't even understand the argument about lack of funding. Now the rapporteur is also talking about the complexity of particulate pollution and urban pollution. That's right. It is. The rapporteur speaks a lot about wood stoves. Yes, it is also a problem that we have to deal with, but that is not what this resolution is about. After all, this motion for a resolution is about diesel cars, and I would like to hear: how can it be that the problems of limiting particulate pollution in relation to combustion furnaces prevent us from doing so in relation to diesel cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203253-2	But when we all want to give the Danes cleaner air, cleaner water and cleaner food, it's all about trying to show: Where have we intervened, and where have we created a direction together? But the questioner is quite right that we also have to look at how we can reduce the number of diesel cars, and that is what I am pointing out, namely that we need to look at it together. So I do not think there is any problem in pointing that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203327	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so after a little despriting, thank you for that, it is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203350	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this issue, which is of course relevant in many ways. Several speakers, at least the former rapporteur and also the Minister, have addressed various sources of pollution, and it is typical in the larger cities that the concentration is highest, including as regards traffic and hence particulate pollution from traffic, one can say, and the challenge is therefore also great there. And it is also something that we in the Left attach importance to having us dealt with in relation to the fact that, of course, it must be possible for anyone to breathe without causing any major problems. Having said that, I do not think that the way in which the intention is right is to try to solve it, at least contribute to a solution, is the right one. I believe that we need a more incentive-driven approach, in other words that there are some positive opportunities for people both not to drive diesel cars, both in the larger cities and also in the whole of the city. The conversion of our car fleet into a greener car park can be said to be one of the things that will happen in the coming years, hopefully, with the political, but also technological, developments that are taking place in these years. And then I do not think that creating certain zones would make a significant difference. Because it's the case that particles don't know about those zones. They're blowing around like the wind blows, literally even. So I believe much more that you can have some opportunities for you not to come in or even drive with the oldest car park, which everything else equals is the most polluting. In other words, to give some incentives to change the car park. Nor should we forget that for some people it is not just a matter of changing things. This would be a major nuisance, including in everyday life, for families who are going to bring in children or other forms of transport; those who are going to bring in goods, etc. And I can see that there are a number of different dimensions in the proposal which can be enticing. However, I think they can also be quite complicated to apply in practice if it came to that. And that is also what I heard from the Minister and the former rapporteur about how it is actually handled and that it will be too much trouble. I very much believe that you can then make some options, that is, it could be commuter parking spaces. There is also the extension of the metro network in the Copenhagen area. And that is also the fact that you can give incentives to replace the oldest cars: scrap premiums. It is also the case that cars, at least the latest, turn off the engine when they hold red lights at the intersection, and several other such new measures, technological measures, make it possible for us to get some way along the road. I am very much in favour of avoiding restricting mobility. I would rather try to limit emissions by virtue of the various incentives and proposals that I have just put forward as part of it. And then, as others have said, there are several other particle polluters, wood stoves. But that is not what we are discussing here, it is from diesel cars. Because you can say that if you make a zone where you are not allowed to drive while the particles are blowing winds, you can say that the zone must be of a certain size. And how big will it be? After all, there will have to be some form of mobility, I think, and the Left at least. And we are at least concerned, in relation to this proposal, that it will place an excessive restriction on mobility. And, as I said, I would much rather limit particulate pollution than restrict mobility, and I think we can do that far along the way. So, as I said, the intention is positive: it is a major problem and more needs to be done about it. We think that some of it will come of itself, ah, I won't say that; there is nothing that comes of itself beyond pocket wool. But the tracks that have already been laid out in relation to the replacement of the car park and electrification of the car park, and also, you might say, both in relation to electricity and other forms of green energy to drive the car park, will be part of the solution more than making a limitation on it. So these should be my comments on the proposal, which we do not support as it stands here. But there is a good intention about it, and I would very much like to discuss further in committee what else can be done to move forward along the road we share somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203834	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203838	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I think I have seen the Left say from the platform many times that municipal self-government and decentralisation are important. Why is it that, in this situation, the Left will not allow the municipalities to introduce it if that is what they want to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203859	We are also in favour of municipal autonomy, but there are just some things that also affect others than the cheese bell of which a municipality is part. There have been proposals in the past to make a pay ring around the capital. It was not a proposal that we agreed on but it has some complications and creates some limitations for others, both those who come from outside and who have to enter, but also those who live in the area and who also need mobility. That is why we are saying that it is not only possible to say that any municipality can now do what any municipality considers best, but we would very much like to create a framework in this respect and therefore also press in that direction, so that the problem that we fully share is resolved, but in our opinion it must be at a more general and national level.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203945	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427203947	On the one hand, I understand it, but on the other hand, I would say that almost whatever decisions you make, it has some implications elsewhere, and then you have to make up for yourself what is most important. In this situation, there are some cities in Copenhagen at least who would like to minimize traffic in the city, so why shouldn't they be allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204013	I think that in Copenhagen, too, some sensible options are being given. We are now, for example, making arrangements. billion-dollar investment in public transport, such as the subway. You could also make additional commuter parking spaces outside the city, when you have the S-train network and other things that you can use to get into town for those who can do so. Of course, it is a commodity transport where, as you know, you can't just take the S-train or the metro, so there are some people who, in our view at least, should be able to get in and out again, but it can easily be created, and that is also what you are doing with the possibility that you don't have to drive into the centre of the city, where there are already problems with parking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204046	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204050	Thank you. Now, in his speech, the rapporteur uses this as an argument against introducing particles in the wind, for example. These zones. I would like to hear the rapporteur's calculations on how far particles blow in the wind if we have a very busy road. So how far do these particles go from that road if we imagine that we have a school 50 metres away? Will they move there? What are the Left's calculations on that when you now use it several times as an argument?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204121	I think it depends a lot on which direction the wind blows, to put it literally. I think so, and besides that, I'm not an engineer in telling you how heavy the particles are. There is also a difference, and some particles quickly fall to the ground, and others do not. My point is simply that you cannot say that, because you make an area of a limited size, there is no air pollution left in that area. There is. I believe, in fact, that a much greater effect could be achieved by providing incentives to avoid using the most polluting cars, rather than imposing a restriction on certain areas where we cannot then move. There may be people who have to go through to get to work somewhere else and then drive a detour and just pollute even more. It's just to give an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204203	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204205	I don't understand the argument that it's about what the wind's blowing. You mean, particles travel shorter if the wind blows from the south than if it blows from the north? I am just mentioning it because the rapporteur said so. After all, the rapporteur uses this argument several times because the rapporteur knows something about how far particles are moving to go against the proposal. Then I think it would be obvious if the rapporteur were to say something about how far particles are moving. And I can assure the rapporteur that they are moving as far south as north, for example. in a coal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204241	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204241-2	We can probably have a long academic discussion on this. My point is simply that particulate pollution is not known either to local authorities or to a zero emission limit. It does not, and so it is true that there are some particles moving shorter and some moving longer, and it depends on how the air is and how strong the wind is etc., and there are many calculations you can make on it. The point is that I would rather see that we make a limitation on emissions than a limitation on mobility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204310	Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204312	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Left says that this is not the right solution, but that incentives are needed instead, and the rapporteur also says that some of what we need to look into is a conversion of the car park, and we can quickly agree on that. But what we know at least is that fossil cars will be driven up to 2040-2050 on the Danish roads and thus also in the cities. That is why I think it is relevant to know what it is actually going to do to remedy it for the 900 people who die every year because of harmful pollution caused by traffic. What will the Left do for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204354	We would like to try to create a greener car park. That is why, for example, we are talking about how to set the registration tax, so that there is an incentive to buy less polluting cars, and for some it is possible to buy an electric car, while for others it is not, but gradually it is also becoming cheaper, because technological developments are also moving fast. So we also think it is important that there is a real alternative to taking the car, and that is why, as an example, I mentioned the extension of the metro, it may also be the S-train network, and it may be other things, commuting parking spaces etc., so that you do not have to drive into the centre, but that you may be able to stay outside and then take in the S-train or metro, to give just a few examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204430	Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204432	Unfortunately, it does not sound like anything to help people who are suffering from harmful particulate pollution from petrol and diesel vehicles today. However, another question is that the Left has helped tighten the rules on environmental zones in the past. Why stop here? Why not also give the municipalities the opportunity to do so, all other things being equal, must be those who know their cities best to set up and strengthen the environmental zones, as it is, among other things. is proposed by Lars Weiss in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204502	Yes, but that's also why I can say that I didn't pour it all the way down the board, and I really would like to discuss it here, also in committee. Because it is true that we have been involved in this in the past, and that is why I would also like to say that it can be an element. I just have the basic approach to it that I would much rather do it in a positive way than do it by using the whip. I would much rather make some options for limiting particulate pollution than restricting mobility. However, I am, of course, open to discussing these things, and this is something that the rapporteur on the Enhedslist also says, not something that has been far away from us in the past. But, of course, there is also a limitation on this, because mobility is therefore important for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204535	Thank you. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204540	The short of the long term is that there are a number of citizens in the large cities who are heavily burdened, irritated and harassed by air pollution, and there is also a majority, I think, of parties and politicians in the large cities who would like to do something about it. After all, it is a proposal from the City of Copenhagen that we are carrying in today and, as I believe, there could be a very easy majority in the City of Copenhagen. May I have a word with you, sir? Jacob Jensen and the Left's answers are to the citizens who live in Copenhagen or Aarhus or Odense or other major cities, this could be relevant to: What are the Left and Mr. Jacob Jensen's explanation that their politicians must not do anything to create cleaner air in those cities? What is the explanation or answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204630	They're allowed to do that. Everyone's free to do that. I just think that what is important here is that we also look at it in a national context. For mobility is not just about a local area; it is also about how we can, and now we are talking about our capital, get to and from. There are, of course, thousands of jobs which also need to be serviced by labour, and I therefore think that instead of restricting mobility, which I think our country has great pleasure and benefit from socio-economically, we should give some opportunities to avoid driving in, both to avoid driving in with the most polluting cars, i.e. typically the oldest in the car park, but also to have some opportunities, as I mentioned before, to park outside the city and to use the S-train network or metro or other. These are, of course, some of the options that we have, in addition to the other things that we have already set in motion. So I think that's the answer to that, instead of saying that this is not allowed. I also have serious doubts as to whether a specific zone of, for example, 1 km has a major impact on total air and particulate pollution. I don't think it has.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204726	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204727	However, we have made a lot of efforts to create alternatives to bringing your old pollutant into, for example. Copenhagen. There's been a subway. So if we are going to go further, we need to start using the a little harder instruments, because we have put all the good ones into use, and we can only see that some people are still commuting into polluting cars. Well, that's the only question you have to ask, sir. Jacob Jensen, whether consideration for those who enter an old diesel car which pollutes and for the mobility of the car owner is more important than consideration for the many families who live here, not least children's families.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204809	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204811	I think this issue is broader than the families of children. We must also take these into account, but this applies to all people, the elderly and the younger, who live in a polluted area, at least to particulate pollution. I don't think you should separate that. But I still think that we also need to look at what it is that works. What's going to work? And there's just my claim, which can then be rejected or not, that making a particular area is of course one can say that the whole of Copenhagen must then be involved, and there's so that you can set up to make car-free Sundays and maybe car-free weeks just give some challenges in other ways. There are people who need to come around and deliver children etc., and there I would rather limit emissions than I would limit mobility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204848	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and after a while it is the Danish People's Party. Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427204916	Thank you. You can look at the proposal here in two ways. I'll try to take the first way first. The proposal is, in fact, relevant enough. We have air pollution and we have to do something about it. How do we do this as best we can? That must be the question. Here comes a suggestion on how to imagine from the Enhedslisten that you can do it. We want to ban the use of newer diesel cars in cities, that is, more recently than Euro 5, because that is what you have to drive. I think you just make a mistake here when you drive a hetz against the diesel cars and say it's the worst. So are the old diesel cars, no doubt about it, and I know it, because I'm actually a trained auto mechanic, and I remember it when you drove behind a diesel car and it made that black range of particles. But today, you just have to say that if you buy a modern, new diesel car today, you actually get a car that is better than a petrol car. If you do not buy an electric car, the best alternative, if you want to be green, is to buy a diesel car, and that is both in relation to particles, but even more in relation to CO2 Therefore it is a little strange that there is always the fight against diesel cars, because there has been enormous development. We all remember when the VW had these very big challenges, because you had cheated the devices on how far they could run on the liter and how it worked, and that made all the car manufacturers have to get on the big blade to figure out how to make these cars actually work well. It has succeeded, and a lot of tests have been done in Germany, and tests have actually been carried out in Denmark, where it is shown that a diesel car in a test in Aarhus actually had 35%. less particles in the exhaust than there was where it was running. In other words, what came out was actually cleaner than what it sucked in from the outside. So you can't say it's just bad. Then you can ask what to do about it. You could also turn it around and say that then you could also say from that side of the House that we want to get rid of the old cars, because they are the ones that pollute, and you are right about that, and then you could put down the registration tax so that you could buy some new cars. That could also be an option. We tried that when we were the support party, and it has actually done that there was a lot of replacement. We could see in the Finance Act that had been removed the scrap premium for diesel cars. We could not understand that, because why was that in the proposal that came from the government? You could also see if you could not get the Danes to drive something more green. We also believe that at some point we will have electric cars and, for that matter, hydrogen cars, because electric cars and hydrogen cars are probably the most realistic we will get now, even when the grid has been expanded and the cars have improved and you can drive longer in your electric car, and we think that will happen in the next 10 years, and then it will probably be a competitive product, and then I think the Danes will choose to do so. But in the intervening period one can of course judge whether to make it difficult to be a Dane and whether to become poorer or whether to make it sensible to be a Dane and make some green choices. Therefore, we do not think this is the right way to do it, even if we recognise the challenge. Now we are asked: what about the families of children in the big cities, what about those who live there? One thing to remember as an ordinary Dane and consumer is that when you sit at home enjoying yourself in the dark evenings and light the candles, it is actually the same particle pollution as if you had a smaller diesel car standing in the idling. It thus pollutes enormously much to have candles too, so we can also do a whole lot even not to be affected by particles. But we agree that we need to phase out the old diesel cars, because they are the ones that are making a mess and they are making a lot of fuss, and it is carcinogenic, and it is dangerous, and it is inappropriate, but we do not think this is the way to do it, because we would rather use some carrot, for example lower registration fees, make a higher scrapping premium, in other words make these vehicles disappear and get the Danes into some greener cars. That must be the way forward. So the intentions are positive, but the solution is negative, so we cannot vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427205335	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. After a little despriting, and thank you for that, it's sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427205354	Thank you. It is a very good proposal from the Enhedslisten that we are now discussing here. In fact, we had in the SF considered putting forward something similar, so it wasn't so hard to take a position as this ticked into the mailbox. It is extremely important that we get rid of air pollution, because right now it is not us who are going to put it to death, but the one who is going to get rid of it. It makes us sick and kills us, and it's an overlooked killer with a lot of lives on his conscience. More than 4,000 Danes die prematurely each year because of air pollution, and this is very serious. And those of us who live in cities, in densely populated areas, are particularly affected, and as Copenhageners, this is something very close to me. I have not moved into town to die early, but because of the many cultural opportunities there are, because of the wild and exuberant life there are, the exciting educations and so on, and that is what I think most of us have, because we have chosen to settle in areas of high air pollution despite it, but that is not something we do not need or have to accept. I think the government is hesitant about this issue here, and we could also hear it before when you do not want to answer when you want to tighten up the environmental zones. I think that's too bad. And if the government does not get any more started here, I think it can hit social democracy in the municipal elections, because it is not much use to have local people who want to make a difference here if Christiansborg does not want to let them do so. So I think it's worth it if you get hit by it, too. I hope the government will crunch their shoes with this. At least we're going to go hard on it until you step up. There must be an opportunity to introduce zero-emission zones, and we must give the municipalities better opportunities to protect their citizens from air pollution from diesel cars, as the proposal here mentions, but also from wood stoves, for example. It cannot be right that there is a local majority who wants to make a difference that wants to protect their citizens from air pollution, but who must not be allowed to do so by a majority in this House. I find this disrespect for local democracy, and I think it is really sad for the many citizens who live daily with air pollution. The SF supports the proposal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427205606	Thank you. A brief comment came from Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427205608	It is to the last remark made by the SF rapporteur that, if there is a local majority, we must have the opportunity to do something. Does this apply in all respects? I mean, if, for example... is a local majority who does not want a coastal wind farm to be set up just outside their windows, should one also be allowed to say no as a municipality according to the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427205629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427205630	No, and that is also a slightly different situation, because now we have an interest in a lot of wind turbines being set up, and here you could quickly end up in that not in my backyard issue where, if you gave that opportunity locally, suddenly no one would have set up wind turbines. So here it makes sense to regulate it from Christiansborg. But I do not see why Christiansborg should say: you must not protect your citizens from air pollution. I mean, we have no national interest in that, for example. wood stove in the middle of Copenhagen. It's not an advantage. This, on the other hand, is part of the fact that, locally in Copenhagen, we would like to do more to combat this air pollution, and that is why I think we should also have the opportunity to do so, also in relation to diesel cars, which the proposal here is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427205719	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427205719-2	It was just to challenge the premise of SF that it should be possible to do so if you have a local majority. That paragraph therefore applies only in certain situations and in those cases where the House decides that it should be allowed to do so. For example: There are also negative consequences in my windmill example; there may be flashes of light and other things that have a negative impact on the environment, and I know what, but we must not go in there locally and say no, while we are allowed to do so here. So there is, as the SF sees it, a limitation on the scope of municipal autonomy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427205751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427205752	Of course there is. Otherwise we might as well just close the Folketing and let all decisions be made locally. However, in these specific cases where we are talking about air pollution, I think it makes sense that we have the possibility of protecting our citizens locally, and unfortunately we do not have that today. I think we should allow them to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427205809	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Thanks for despriting. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427205831	Thank you. This is of course a little interesting, because the last resolution we discussed was a motion for a resolution from the Left which brought the regions' desire to bring a national strategy for raw materials to Christiansborg. In fact, I think that this proposal is also about bearing some local wishes in it at Christiansborg, namely the desire to have some local autonomy in this area too. At any rate, I find it very difficult to tell our municipal politicians why we in Christiansborg should stand in the way of them fighting for less air pollution and cleaner air for their citizens. Then it is also a question of what considerations we weigh against each other. After all, it is not a question of no air pollution versus mobility. For as Mr. Jacob Jensen himself has pointed out that it is precisely about creating alternative ways of being mobile where you do not pollute, and we have just done so by metro, light rails etc. etc. We have just created the infrastructure that means that you don't have to drive in with your old ride and pollute in the big cities. That is why we are ready for the next step. The infrastructure is there; there is, in fact, no excuse for allowing people to drive into the big cities and pollute because they have an alternative. These are the considerations that must be weighed up against one another, and perhaps there was a point 10 to 20 years ago where you did not have the alternative. But now there are really good opportunities to drive the car somewhere, park it and then take some public transport into the middle of the city. It is certainly also cheaper, because then you do not have to pay for parking. So I really do not see why we here in Christiansborg should take into account the desire of few people to drive into the big cities with polluting cars at the expense of the people who live in the big cities and their health. With those words, I can say that we support the proposal, and not least because we have some local politicians around the country who are really passionate about making efforts to reduce air pollution in large cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427210050	We thank Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no brief comments. Thanks for the despriting, thank you. Mrs. Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427210113	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. There is no doubt that in these years we need such thought and rethinking, not least when it comes to transport and climate, when it comes to congestion and many people in the same place and when it comes to health. The figures speak their clear language: Every year, many people die of bilos. So it is absolutely central to look at how we do in the car park greener and the city air cleaner. Conservatives would very much like to take part in this. Because there should be no doubt that we want to reduce emissions and air pollution and also have a great deal of sympathy for the idea of urban environmental zones, where we can tighten up requirements and get better air quality. In addition, the car park is becoming greener and greener, which is why we also get a natural replacement that gives better air. But we believe that it should be us here at Christiansborg who should have the competence to decide who, where and when to drive into cities, and not, for example. Copenhagen Copenhagen. For those who live in Copenhagen, there are plenty of opportunities to transport themselves in other ways, among others. cycling at work, if possible, and therefore they can more easily accept zero emission zones, while those who live in Helsinge or Haslev or in Horsens for that matter can't just drive to work if they have a job in the city or get to work in that way. And they can't just go out buying an electric car tomorrow all. No matter how you see it, the city is not just for those who live in the city. There is a balance and there should be a national political concern to balance and therefore we cannot vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427210244	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427210300	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating must allow municipalities to introduce zero-emission zones, to include passenger cars with diesel engines in environmental zones and to put an end to the right of veto of the police in the face of traffic changes. The proposal refers to emission-free vehicles in the zero emission zones. I don't know what that means. What vehicles will then be able to drive in such a zone? No cars are emission-free. The largest emissions from cars with particulate filter come from tyres and brakes, and thus electric cars do not emit significantly less. And there will also be families who can't afford an electric car if it's electric cars that can drive in these zones. The proposal proposes to put an end to the police's right of veto on traffic changes. It is not certain that it is of any benefit to the general public. An arbitrary decision made by politicians could be a serious nuisance to people in everyday life. We must remember that it must be possible to transport in the cities in a reasonable time. It must be possible for citizens to reconcile their daily lives. Moreover, the impact of these proposals could be questioned if they were implemented. The vast majority of particulate pollution in cities has its origins outside the city, so local action will only have a limited effect. Traffic is also not the main source of the proportion of particulate pollution originating in cities. For other types of air pollution it is a larger proportion that originates in cities, but it is still a major part that comes from outside. New citizens cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427210436	Thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Susanne Zimmer, no, sir. Torsten Gejl is here too, but we'll take Mrs. Susanne Zimmer first, and then Mr. Torsten Gejl come to afterwards. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427210507	This is a good proposal with important measures that will enable cities to adapt to their residents and not their cars. The municipalities must, of course, have the opportunity to interpret their cities so that they are more environmentally friendly and reduce air pollution, and it is our responsibility in the Folketing to ensure that they have the opportunity to do so. There are municipalities that are asking for this, so now give them the right to implement the measures they want to do to improve their city. The action has already been taken in the City of Copenhagen, as mentioned in the proposal. We often see local areas taking the lead, especially in the fight for a better environment. We hope that if this proposal is voted through, more municipalities will follow suit, where they will then have the opportunity to create better conditions for their municipality. The government has been saying for two years that they will do more to reduce air pollution, but they have not yet come up with a proposal that comes close to this level of ambition, and that is what is needed. The lack of political will is deeply worrying. If the Minister continues to claim that the proposals coming from their support parties are not good enough to support them, I look forward to seeing the proposals they themselves make in the Chamber. So far, it has not been very inspiring. Overall, the proposal is a step in the right direction to combat air pollution and it will provide good opportunities to create better urban spaces for both people and nature. In the Greens we hope that this proposal will also mean that more cities will convert more land into natural areas when there are potentially fewer cars in cities. In connection with the possibility of establishing zero-emission zones, we would like those zones to become important centres for both urban life and potential for biodiversity in the city. A zero-emission zone will hopefully be the first step towards urban natural zones. In particular, we welcome the removal of the police's right of veto on changes in traffic, because it offers more opportunities to create more and better natural areas. Police should not be an obstacle to creating more environmentally friendly urban spaces. Free Greens warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427210730	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427210751	Thank you, President. And I'm sorry I was just a little late. Well, the alternative certainly supports this proposal. It is an incredibly good and constructive proposal to reduce particulate pollution, which kills incredibly many more people than die in traffic. But sometimes, when such a proposal is made here, you think it's a lie. In fact, I did not think that it was the case that the municipalities were not allowed to decide for themselves how much particulate pollution had to be emitted from diesel cars. Imagine, they can't do that themselves! Nor did I think that the police had a right of veto as to whether the municipalities could be allowed to operate their roads in a way that could close some roads to reduce pollution, particulate pollution, in the city. Well, sometimes you think, this can't be right, it must be allowed in advance. But apparently it isn't. The fact that you do not use the chance to allow it, i.e. that the government does not say we have to solve it, is an equally great mystery to me. There is always something about a committee or an inquiry or something when it comes to a motion for a resolution; it is virtually impossible to get resolutions adopted in the Chamber, no matter how intelligent they are. And that goes beyond this excellent motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten. So in this way we can spend a great deal of time ripening matters without really getting anywhere, even if the proposals have a quality that makes them really deserve that we just get it solved and move on. I think, after all, that the debate must be taken seriously. In other words, it is mentioned several times that funding is wrong, but we cannot know what the loss of revenue will cost, so that the police may sometimes have to stop a diesel car and say: "Don't drive here." Well, they're already on the roads. I think you could be clear about that. Nor do I think that the argument from the Left that particles fly in the air is really valid if one cannot say a little about whether they do so and how far they do so, i.e. how much strain is there in a residential area, a school or a nursing home from a nearby road. In other words, if you use such arguments but have not examined it, then I do not think you are taking such a debate seriously. And if you do not adopt a good proposal and do not take the debate very seriously, then I think it is a little too bad to stand here and have to deal with a good resolution. But, of course, in the alternative, we are voting in favour of this proposal. And we would like to see more of the good resolutions that save on climate and pollution so that we could get a little faster across the steppes. As you know, for the environment and the climate, it is not very good. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427211037	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427211042	Now I would like to answer the question of how far particles can move. It depends a lot on how big they are, but small particles can move many kilometers, hundreds of kilometers. And the vast majority of particle pollution in Copenhagen does not originate in the city, but actually comes from outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427211058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427211100	Well, I understood the answer, but I didn't understand the question. But respect for having that knowledge. After all, the rapporteur did not use it on the platform, but respected the fact that you have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427211112	Let me just make it quite clear that it is a short comment, so you are allowed to make a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427211119	It wasn't a question either. Now the rapporteur had just asked it several times, and then I would give my answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427211127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427211129	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427211131	Thank you for that investigation. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl, and then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427211145	Air pollution in Danish cities is a serious problem with major health, climate and socio-economic consequences. Air pollution from fossil cars is isolated because of approx. 900 deaths a year. We already have tools today to reduce the worst effects of traffic congestion, among other things. The environmental zones, and in the Folketing, we have dealt with several times with proposals to tighten up the rules for environmental zones. In this respect, several parties have agreed that this is needed, primarily in order to reduce pollution by harmful particles from traffic in our cities. A majority has also, a year ago, in connection with the debate on motion for a resolution No. B 98 that air pollution is a major health problem and that the current rules for environmental zones do not prevent too many Danes from continuing to be affected by air pollution. The majority wanted to strengthen efforts to reduce air pollution. The same parties also agreed on a strengthening of the environmental zones in 2019 when the draft law amending the Environmental Protection Act, which deals with stricter environmental zone requirements for heavy vehicles and vans, was examined at the initiative of the previous government. At that time, we could agree that all municipalities should have the opportunity to introduce environmental zones into urban areas of a certain size, so that it will be possible to establish considerably more environmental zones than today and not only in the five largest cities. In addition, we also agreed that passenger cars should be included in the environmental zones. In the past, however, unity has only been able to make it possible for there to be a sharpening, but not the extent to which this sharpening should take place. Some parties, including the Enhedslisten, have wanted to give the municipalities a much wider framework for what could be required of the vehicles entering the cities, among others. also zero emission zones. Other parties have not shared these wishes, and that is why a kind of compromise text has been written on the subject of tightening up. In February we saw that the Social Democratic Party in Copenhagen and Mayor Lars Weiss wanted a number of measures that could provide municipalities with more tools to ensure less traffic pollution in cities, including the reinforced environmental zones and the possibility of zero-emission zones. After all, the proposal was similar to something that the Enhedslisten has actually proposed in the past, and that is also why we in the Enhedslisten have tabled the motion for a resolution that we are debating today. We see this as a welcome opportunity for us to talk again about giving local authorities more autonomy over local traffic planning and reducing pollution. Having said that, we would also like to go further than the Mayor of Copenhagen. In the Enhedslisten we would like to see all cars included in the environmental zones, so that within those parts of the city which do not have definite zero-emission zones, too, there can be demands for emissions from traffic, and we would like the municipalities themselves to be allowed to stop the strict demands that have to be made in their very municipality. But what we are discussing today is what the Social Democrats themselves have proposed, and that is why we thought that we could at least reach an agreement here. This proposal should be seen as a way of giving some of the government of the Folketing to the municipalities and instead giving the municipalities a higher degree of self-determination back. Basically, we are not talking about requiring the municipalities and, in this case, the City of Copenhagen to introduce zero-emission zones, but merely that we in the Folketing demonstrate the confidence that we actually believe that the municipalities can manage these powers themselves. The same can also be said of the last part of the resolution, which deals with restricting the right of veto of police over road projects. Unfortunately, the police's procedures have a clear focus on accessibility, while the municipalities often also have other considerations, such as: to create good urban spaces or better road safety for vulnerable road users. That is why we also believe that the right of veto of the police should be brought to bear on road projects, so as to ensure that changes in the road map take place on a more holistic basis. In conclusion, I would like to thank the SF, Radical, Alternative and Free Greens for supporting this proposal. I would also like to thank the Socialists in Copenhagen for putting forward this proposal. This is a proposal which, in our view, is absolutely necessary in order to ensure less pollution and hence fewer sick people and died as a result of the negative effects of the pollution caused by traffic in our city. And then we just have to say that it is a pity that the government cannot at least give a clear answer as to when we will have the possibility of extending the scope of the municipalities and, hopefully, reducing pollution in the cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427211700	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427211714	The debate is open. Here you go, the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427211732	Thank you. Fauna crime, for example. the poisoning of protected birds of prey and the killing of wolves are serious crimes. There should therefore be no doubt that I think this is totally unacceptable and that this is something that concerns me and concerns me. I therefore also very much agree with the proposers of the SF that there is a major challenge with precisely nature and fauna crime, and I myself have had a meeting with six organisations, DN, DOF, Animal Protection, Agriculture & Food, Danish Forest Association and the Danish Federation of Hunters, who have written to me because they are also concerned about the recent examples that have been, among other things. the example of four dead sea eagles on Tåsinge, which were poisoned with carbofuran. As the proposers point out, the challenge of fauna crime is that the crimes are committed in less busy areas. This means that fauna crimes are difficult to detect and also to investigate. Crimes are therefore rarely detected. Nor is there necessarily anything wrong with a two-year penalty, but it can be problematic if the penalty framework is not used. I therefore do not feel sure that a higher penalty would necessarily solve the problem raised by the proposers. I also believe that we should have a better insight into derived consequences in other areas of justice before we may raise the penalty framework, especially because the current criminal framework, which allows a penalty of up to two years in prison, is at the level of other special provisions. The Government proposes that a thorough study of the problem should be initiated instead. The study shall include: Uncover the motivation, location and location of the event, penalty frame and penalty measurement, other relevant consequences such as: the possibility of denying hunting signs and similar actions and opportunities to improve the supervision of the investigation. The study could therefore include the elements which are also raised here in the motion for a resolution. The aim of the study is to identify suitable and effective solutions for dealing with the problems of fauna crime described by the authors of the motion for a resolution. It may be a change in criminal or other rules, but it may also be increased and better supervision opportunities, proposals on how we also culturally and socially change the relationship to fauna crime, whistleblower schemes, cooperation with hunters and local communities, guidance, campaigns, etc. The Government proposes that the study, which is expected to be completed at the beginning of 2022, be carried out with the involvement of the Ministry of Justice, as well as other relevant authorities and stakeholders. In this way, we can ensure that relevant and widely anchored knowledge is involved in this area. I think that is necessary if we are to find the good solutions as well. So the government does not support the resolution as it stands here, but we would very much like to work with the proposers in relation to this important issue of a study that reveals it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212044	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212052	Thank you to the Minister, and also for the positive approach to it, although there is no full support for this proposal, which I had hoped for from the Minister, and it is not surprising that the Minister is being put forward because we have been talking about this area since last year at least. I'd like to hear a little bit about this meeting with these organizations that were a few months ago. I have also met them myself, and I would like to hear about what the Minister is talking about now. Is this something that has already been started by the Minister on top of that meeting? Because I remember a lot of talk was made about the need to follow up. So it's already started? Is it a work that has begun so that we can quickly see a movement in this area, or is it something that is about to be considered starting?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212136	It is true that we have talked about it, and I have also talked to the rapporteur about this issue myself. Because it is important and there is also a need to send a very clear signal from the Danish Parliament that we are looking after the protected species we have in Denmark. In relation to the meeting I had with a number of organisations, they have also written to the government with a broad concern about how we can actually ensure that there is enforcement on the one hand, but where there are also a number of things that we discussed at the meeting that can play a part. And what I indicated at the meeting was that the government would now look into the issue and then report back on a follow-up, also with a view to having a new meeting with the organisations. We have not had that yet, and the proposal here to have a study is, in such a way, something that we would like to initiate and which I also hope we can agree on, including with the proposers, would be a good idea to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212237	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212239	That's fine, thank you for that answer. I would then like to hear something a little more in principle when I sit and see these stories about people who are killing animals, even protected animals, and I see the penalties that come, that is, 40 days of conditional prison for poisoning some sea eagles, 40 days of conditional prison for shooting a wolf. Does the Minister think that, in relation to a sense of justice, when you look at that level of crime, it is a high enough punishment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212313	As a starting point, there is the division of labour that we lay down the laws in here, and then we have the judicial power which lays down the specific penalty in the specific case. But I share the frustration that we have seen this type of case, and that is also why we need to focus on this area. Of course, we sometimes have some cases in which it is not possible to find out who actually was responsible for the crime involved. One of the things we have done together is, of course, one of the things we have done together. to ensure, inter alia, that: in relation to the capture of butterflies, that we have now done so forbidden. So we have also taken a number of steps together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212350	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212410	Thank you. Now I could just say that I agree with what the Minister has said, because I am. But I would like to add a few more words, because this is actually a matter of concern to many Danes. We're actually in the middle of a natural crisis. Maybe that's how simple it is. Last Thursday, the government announced the appointment of three new national natural parks at Tranum in North Jutland, Stray Lake in West Jutland and Almindingen on Bornholm. They then come on top of the two we have already appointed, at Fussingø and at Gribskov. In all, we have among other things. together with the SF set aside 888 million. kr. to a package of nature and biodiversity, because our nature is cramped. Our animals and plants need space to unfold and space to develop. When we have set such a large amount of money to take better care of our nature, it is also to protect the many animal and plant species that live around the Danish country. We must take care of our wild animals and plants, not harm them or kill them, because they do not fit into the economic interests of oneself or because one is an obsessed collector. I understand that matters relating to the smoothing of protected dunes in Skagen, the poisoning of protected birds of prey or the capture of protected butterflies bring the rapporteurs up into the red field. They do with me, too. It's shitty. The SF proposers have tabled this motion for a resolution, which is intended to require the government to increase the penalties for natural and fauna crime, because they do not believe that the penalties are given to, among other things, the victims. the cases I mentioned before are sufficient. In fact, we can agree that they are not. But it is still the judges who judge today. Generally speaking, the penalty has been a fine when natural and fauna crimes have come before a judge. But lately, however, we have seen suspended prison sentences. I would like to make it clear that it is no place to do harm to protected animals or to the nature that we are trying hard to protect better and that it is, of course, criminal to take matters into our own hands. However, if an increase in the penal framework would lead to less natural and fauna crime, I am not really convinced. As I have said, the current penal framework is not being fully exploited and, at the same time, it is incredibly difficult to solve crimes against our nature and fauna. That is why so few cases lead to judgment at all, and that in itself is a very great challenge. Therefore, we should instead turn our attention to first identifying the challenge, so that we ensure that the efforts we make actually have the effect that we want. Here I do not believe that an increased penalty will in itself lead to the effect that we want. We want crime against our nature and fauna not to occur. As the Minister mentioned, we must also look at other handles. I would particularly like to highlight proposals on how we can culturally and socially change the relationship with wildlife crime, in other words how our people view it at all. A whistleblower scheme is also a good idea. And what about cooperation with the hunters and the community? And can we strengthen this work by putting in more guidance and doing some really good campaigns? And then, yes, perhaps there will also have to be a higher penalty when we have the case properly investigated. On the basis of the points I have made here, in the view of the Social Democrats, there is in fact an opportunity for us to seriously reduce the abuse of animals, plants and landscapes and to put an end to it. Social democracy does not support the motion for a resolution, but we are happy to invite SF into cooperation on further work to protect our animals and nature, because something needs to be done. Let us see if we can find each other in the committee work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212845	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212847	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech, which comes around widely and also points to some important issues, in terms of how we can solve more of this: whistleblower schemes and to use local communities, hunters, etc. But I would like to be a little more in principle, because we know that these forms of crime are not very densely populated and that it is often difficult to find out how this has happened. You also know that if you're finally caught, you get a very, very mild sentence, yes, even if you've shot a wolf, you can be allowed to hunt again after a few years. So does the rapporteur not think that investigation and punishment go hand in hand and that punishment, when it is so difficult to solve and you also know that one day you will have virtually no punishment, which means that there is no consequence, is therefore also part of the picture that needs to be examined here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427212950	Thank you for the question. I agree that this is premeditated crime. It is done on purpose and for the purpose of harming or eradicating animals or collecting them because one is obsessed with a collector's mania. And to the point of a small punishment, I would say yes, but that there are some additional penalties, and that is that you are being severely convicted in your local area and that you become a red cloth for the organisations you have been a member of, for example. Hunting associations, or in the offices of trust which one may have within those organizations. There you are simply sent out at such a speed because you cannot have people who destroy and kill in the wild to sit in those organizations. So there's an additional sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427213055	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427213057	You could say that's the moral punishment of society. Here we are dealing with legislation, which is something else. Does the rapporteur think that it is reasonable that a deliberate murder of a wolf, for example, should be possible, in other words, to use the hunting weapon you have to kill a wolf and still go hunting afterwards? Is there reasonableness in that, in other words, there is no consequence that, of course, hunting is not possible if you are chasing endangered animals?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427213128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427213129	In fact, that was one of the things the Minister mentioned in his speech, namely that if you can reclaim your hunting sign, it is one of the things that must be included in the work that is now to be started and, as the Minister said, we expect a result from at the beginning of 2022. So it is a real debate to start, i.e. whether one should be able to continue having one's hunting sign or whether one should be able to recover it when one has done something like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427213159	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427213221	Thank you very much for the floor and also thank you very much to the SF for putting forward a actually quite excellent, constructive resolution, as we see it, which aims to increase the criminal framework for nature and fauna crime, so that it can escape with, or at least take as its starting point, what our neighbouring countries' criminal framework in this field looks like. In addition, it is also proposed to look at better ways of solving crime in the field of nature and fauna crime. This is an area on which we on the Left would also very much like to focus, which is why it is very good that this proposal can help to continue and perhaps further focus on the debate. Unfortunately, we have seen some examples, even recently, including the example of Tåsinge, which the Minister mentioned, and other examples, which are awful to look at and listen to. So how we can get rid of this, we would very, very much like to discuss with the SF and other parties, also in the committee work, and we fully acknowledge the premise for the proposal to look at how the penal framework is arranged today in this area, and we can also see how it might help to have a preventive effect in relation to these situations where there are people going out and doing crime against protected animals. Of course, that is also said with a glimpse in the eye, but also with a great deal of seriousness, for it is gratifying that the SF at least in this field now professes that punishment can also be a crime-reducing factor. That is not always what we hear from the SF when we otherwise talk about legal policy in a more broad sense, but it should not, of course, separate us when we can then agree here that sanctions can have an effect against what we all, I assume, agree we should try to combat, namely this kind of crime. Having said that, we also have the general or fundamental approach, of course, that we must also set up our legal system in a way that also makes it possible to impose a proportionality of the sanctions that we can say, and that is where we would very much like to take part in the committee's work, which this proposal will then lead to, to look at the Nordic countries mentioned. It is, of course, a good place to start from what level they have in this field, and what it looks like in relation to other forms of crime and therefore also the sanctions that can be imposed in the judicial system. But, as I said, we are very prepared to continue talking about this. I do not even want to state here whether we will vote in favour or against when we get there, because it depends, of course, on what lies in the proposal and, therefore, on what might be possible, because the proposal is of course not so specific either. There may of course be different types of sanctions. One thing is the penalty and possibly also the imprisonment, but there is also what I think the former rapporteur mentioned about hunting signs. For some who hunt, I actually think it may sometimes be an even greater punishment to have his opportunity to have hunting signs forward-looking. We know this also from drunk driving or driving madness, that is to say that you can also have your driving licence taken for a period or even permanently. So that's also a way to look at things. At any rate, it is important for me to stress that this is a subject which is unfortunately topical and which, of course, we on the part of the legislator, as we continue to protect our animals in general and the protected animals in particular even better, will have to look at whether the level of sanctions that we are working with is sufficient or whether more can be done. And there I think the proposal here is very, very constructive in looking at how to do it in the other countries around us, the Nordic countries etc., and, as I said, we would very much like to take that down in relation to discussing and examining before we take the final position, because we share the intention fully as it is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427213623	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427213626	Thank you to the rapporteur for the positive and constructive reception of the proposal, and that is quite right, because I do not think I have ever stood in this Chamber and advocated harsher penalties. This is probably the first time, and I would almost venture to say that it will probably be one of the last times. But it is because these are cases that are very difficult to solve for natural reasons and when the penalty is very, very low, as we have seen in the cases that have been brought forward, then the deterrent element is in the end all of a sudden very thin. Because you don't get caught, and if you're finally caught, it's a very, very mild punishment. So does the rapporteur not also agree that some of what we also have to look at here is the deterrent to say that this is so serious that we do not want to see it, and that we must not do so, and that the penalty therefore also helps to send out the signal to those people who consider putting poison to the birds of prey, as we have seen on Tåsinge, for example?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427213724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427213727	It was certainly not to tease that I mentioned this because the SF does not normally advocate stricter penalties. I think that people can keep up with that, and now I am dealing specifically with this proposal, and I share it in looking at whether sanctions could be tightened up. I have some doubts as to whether the sanctions should be applied according to how difficult it is to solve a given crime. I do not know whether it is a legal principle that we normally follow so much in legal policy, but I do not think it is right to say that penalties and sanctions that we make in all kinds of contexts are not to punish, but that it is to avoid some form of crime. In other words, that is the preventive effect, and of course there is also the whole sense of justice in that, if you have done something and you are discovered, there is also a considerable amount of punishment. In any case, it can be said that if someone, as I have also been told, is out shooting a deer, who may have a value of DKK 70,000 to 80,000, and then they get a fine of DKK 7,000, then they can actually pay themselves, and that is certainly not the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427213827	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427213904	Thank you for that, President. We are here with a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on increased penalties for natural and fauna crime. We think this is a positive proposal, in the Danish People's Party. Unfortunately, we see that this can be done in many ways. The worst thing we've ever seen is, we think, where poison has been laid out. For what reason, yes, you can hardly understand why someone does it in relation to eagles and other things. But we've also seen the top of the dunes suddenly disappear so you can get some vision. We've seen that old trees have suddenly been cut down so you could have some vision. After all, if you get a small fine, it takes 200 years for the trees to be there again, and at least you can enjoy it during that period. So consistency also means something in relation to these cases that you might think are banal, some of them, perhaps, or not so big. But they are great, and of course it must also be punished when it is nature and our wildlife that is affected. One thing that seems to me to be missing from the proposal, which we can take into account in the work of the committee, is that we have had some cases in which some organisations, for example. has let mink out, and it's actually an invasive species. Mink is a predator who can actually do a lot about breeding birds, take their eggs and destroy quite a lot. In any case, it should also be a part of it if you in this way adversely affect nature in connection with, for example, letting animals out into it. In any case, we think that should be included. So basically we think it is a positive proposal. There are some things we think should do. We also need to find out where the level should be, and there are also some proposals in it. The proposal is not finished in that way, but we can take that into account in the work of the committee. So let us see if we can somehow find a broad reconciliation across the parties and find out how to make sure that it is not free of charge to attack nature. Neither is it today, but it is very close in some of the cases that we have seen, and we must of course have done something about that. So thank you for the proposal and I hope we can land somewhere sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427214117	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we now move on to the Radicals, Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427214132	I think I am repeating myself tonight, because again here I would suggest that we make a very good report. Because I would also like to be honest and say that I did have some doubts about the resolution itself. On the one hand, I think it is very well-founded to look through the area, because there is a lot to suggest that perhaps not the penalty framework, but the penalty, is too low, but in relation to the examples or parallels that are then mentioned, i.e., as far as I remember, to Sweden and Germany, where there are penalties as much as six years, I might also find it a little difficult to see that we have to get to that level. I think that there may also be a slight difference in what kind of nature you have, and I do not think that we have problems with poachers in Denmark, and that it is therefore perhaps another level that we should land on. However, there is a great deal to suggest that the level we are at today is not high enough. That is why we would very much like to take a look at the level of penalties, both the penalty framework, but also the actual penalties or sentences, but we really think it makes a great deal of sense to do so in the way the government is proposing. So we are actually going to propose that instead of adopting the motion for a resolution we land a report in which we oblige the government to do what the Minister has already promised to do today. But all we know is that such promises are a little more certain of being fulfilled when you have it in writing. But I really think that the plan put forward by the Minister up here on the platform earlier was very sensible, so if we can get the government to deliver it in a report, then we think it would be just the right, good way to land this proposal, which we would also like to thank the proposers for having put forward. After all, it is important to look at this area and I think that, when there is such a wide range of organisations calling for action and saying that it is wrong today, then of course we also have an obligation to act on it. But I am more confident that this is done in the way the Minister has proposed today than through a motion for a resolution such as the one that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427214405	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427214408	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Those were good reflections on the proposal that was interesting to hear. What I would like to ask is actually one of the things that Mrs Zenia Stampe said at the beginning that this was a different situation because we have a different nature than we have in Germany or Norway, for example, where we have much more coherent natural areas than we have in Denmark. And is that not one of the reasons why we should also take extra care of the little nature that we have, which is as pressured as it is, precisely because we do not have the large, coherent areas that we see elsewhere? And isn't that what should be an argument for us actually taking this kind of thing more seriously, because there is so much less of nature here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427214452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427214454	Yes, but I think we can hit a level similar to that of the other countries. My hypothesis, and I will hurry to say, is that it is also a hypothesis that fauna crime occurs in countries with larger areas and other potentials for fauna crime at a slightly different level than what we see in Denmark. So, I think we can hit roughly the same level of punishment as in Germany and Sweden for the same crime. I just think that when they have such a much higher penalty framework, it is also because the possibility of committing more serious fauna crime is also present with the great wild nature they have and therefore there is a higher penalty framework. But of course it is just a hypothesis, and it should certainly not be taken as an expression of the fact that animal crime must be punished less in Denmark. I just do not think that the wildlife crime that is taking place in Denmark is as serious as the wildlife crime that you see in some of the countries with larger natural areas and another possibility of poaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427214557	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist wishes to speak again and just got in touch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427214603	I'm sorry I was slow to push in. I can actually understand the thinking of Mrs Zenia Stampe, but in terms of shooting wolves, we have some answers from the Ministry of Justice about the killing of wolves in the various European countries that we got back in 2018 or 2019. And the killing of a wolf, whether it is in Denmark, Germany or Slovenia, is a killing of a wolf except that we have so many fewer wolves here in Denmark than they have elsewhere. So it's just the rationale behind punishment and crime that I don't quite understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427214644	We're gonna get an answer to that now. Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427214645	Well, that's because you only compare the penalty. But I have not seen that there is a direct comparison between what one gets from punishment in Denmark for shooting a wolf, compared to what punishment one gets in Germany or Sweden for that matter. And that is where I think it would be sensible to hit the same level of punishment in order to shoot a wolf in Germany and Sweden and Denmark in addition to, of course, taking a stand on how serious crime is and so on. But I think it makes sense to hit the same level. I just have a theory that when you have punishments of up to 6 years, it's probably not just to shoot a wolf; then maybe it's more about trophy hunting that we don't quite have the same opportunity for at home, at least not on protected animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427214727	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thanks for drinking off. Then it's mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427214748	Fauna crime is probably something most people associate with the black market with endangered animals on the other side of the earth. It can be ivory, rhinoceros horns, turtle shell, tigerskins or live animals, all large exotic animals living far away from the Danish borders. But fauna crime is also taking place in Denmark. This happens under shady conditions, where some bandits kill large birds of prey or wolves. But it is also the smuggling of butterflies. The criminals often get away with this too easily, often without detection. Of course, it has major consequences for the most threatened of our species, which is why I would very much like to commend SF for debating natural and fauna crime today. However, there are still a number of uncertainties that we in the Enhedslist need to look at. What species and what endangered and wild animals cover it when the SF compares the penalties for nature and fauna crime in Sweden, Finland and Germany with the penalties that we have in Denmark? In addition, it is vital for us that penalties for natural and fauna crime are seen in the right proportions in relation to other forms of crime, and we should also look at other than that, concerning violations of the hunting law. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that it would be quite obvious to start with the CITES Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. In the Enhedslisten, we also believe that we need to clarify the consequences of, for example, the theft of protected orchids or the destruction of endangered animals' habitats. For example, should cutting down a woodpecker's tree be included in this? In the Enhedslisten we therefore fully share the intention that we should have investigated and solved far more cases of natural and fauna crime. This is so necessary, because it has great consequences as our nature, and I hope that we can reach agreement on this in a joint report text.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427214955	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427215022	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor, and thank you for the authors. No, you can't. As little as you can sing • I know a larched • without learners. I'll be very brief. I'm on the side of the animals. No one should deliberately, with no purpose or legitimate justification, and certainly not for fun or profit, kill protected species. Animals that may be extinct and never come back. We're already engaged in a mass murder, not seen since the dinosaurs, on a myriad of species. Biodiversity and nature are under pressure, and animals are getting less and less space. It is totally unacceptable to kill protected creatures if it is a wild wolf, a bird of prey or a beautiful butterfly; whether it is shooting down species in conservation periods outside hunting seasons or outright poaching. It is a serious crime and it must be severely punished. And no, of course we're not talking about mistakes, stupidity or bad luck. We're talking about premeditated homicide. The Danish penal framework was established back in 1984 and has long been overtaken by our neighbouring countries. Thus, the maximum penalty is 2 years. It's among the lowest in our part of the world. Many people may think that only these elephants, tigers and rhino are shot and traded and smuggled, but it's just not. Unfortunately, most crimes on Danish soil often happen without us actually discovering it. And here I fully agree with the authors of the motion that this, combined with the almost ridiculously low penalties, gives a far too little preventive signal, indeed, almost ridiculously little. Let's change it. We do not want to settle here and now at neither the level nor the possible removal of hunting signs, although this seems to be quite reasonable elements of punishment, which the hunters, by the way, support entirely by themselves. Because proper hunters behave. But Conservatives wholeheartedly support action against the killing of protected animals. We will gladly give concrete input to this to the government, which hopefully also has this resolution in its back pocket. In fact, it is required to get started. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427215250	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427215302	Thank you. The proposal here is to tighten the criminal framework for nature and fauna crime to a level comparable to that of Denmark's neighbouring countries, that is. It's a punishment, and that's interesting. The proposers' own party, SF, often tells of how worried they are about a tendency to solve all the problems of crime by imposing stricter penalties, and SF believes in a balanced legal policy in which prevention plays an important role. Now the proposers are calling for significantly higher penalties for crimes committed against nature and fauna, and there is nothing about prevention in the proposal. In New Citizens we certainly believe that people who commit offences should be punished, but it is interesting that, on the one hand, the SF accuses bourgeois governments of systematic failure of prevention as a tool and then makes a proposal here for significantly higher penalties. It is possible that penalties are too low in some cases, but it is also a problem that we know too many other forms of crime, and I would say that when I look at some of the penalties mentioned here in the comments on the resolution, I think they are low too, but the question is whether it is the criminal framework that is the problem. Now, of course, I cannot comment on the specific cases, but as the authors mention in the comments on the proposal, the penalty is today as much as two years in prison, and the proposers cite as an example that the penalty for illegal killing of wild animals in Norway is six years in prison, and I think that sounds violent. So I agree that it seems to be some low penalties that are being measured, but I do not think it is a question of raising the penalty framework. That is why new citizens cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427215501	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427215507	The rapporteur for the new citizen talks about prevention. This very thing cannot also be preventative, precisely when, for example, we are dealing with the problem. Is there any premeditated venom murder on birds of prey, when it comes to people who know what they're doing and what poison they have to lay out to kill these birds of prey? They know that there is a very small chance of getting caught when you do this, because often we don't even find out because these wild birds fall down places in the wild and are eaten by other animals, so we don't see what has really happened. Even when it's solved, there's a very small penalty. Increasing a criminal framework can also have a preventive effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427215547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427215550	In other words, that punishment can be preventive, I think it is absolutely right. I just take it up because I thought it was obvious when the rapporteur is usually against increased penalties. But, of course, punishment works preventively; it should do so, but, as I said, I do not think it is the two-year prison sentence that is the problem here. It is more a question of how the penal framework is being used.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427215615	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427215647	Thank you. Fauna crime is only a small corner of nature and the problems of biodiversity, the problems that they are facing now. However, 40 days of suspended imprisonment for the shooting of a wolf and 2 years of disqualification of the hunting sign or 40 days of conditional prison for having poisoned birds of prey is really a small punishment that is hardly felt, I think. So an increase in punishment is fine, because we must show and we must send a signal that we think nature is important and, in fact, we in the Free Greens think that nature should be regarded as sacred. So an increase in punishment would be a good signal that we believe that we should take nature seriously. But the big problem is, of course, our focus on nature in general and in general perspective. For example: Next week we will have a proposal on the felling of old trees, because it is also a crime to cut down an old tree, which may be 200 years old. We have far too few areas for animals, and we are doing too little about that. Right now we are working on a proposal for more motorways, wider motorways and new roads that steal space from nature and disrupt nature. So in this way we're helping to convey an understanding that nature is something that you can just do with as you like, because there's some purpose that's more important. So it's really about our natural vision, and it's a big thing that we have to grab on many joints and edges. But this is a start, it is a small thing we can do, and we would like to support that in the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427215852	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427215914	Thank you. Normally, you say that per person. I would like to thank the various rapporteurs for the consideration of a proposal that has been put forward, but here I would like to thank the rapporteurs sincerely for their consideration of the proposal, because I think it has both been interesting and that there have been some serious reflections on it here. When we have chosen to make this proposal, it is also very serious and heartfelt because we have heard history of these deliberate killings of nature, and then it has hurt, that is to say, really hurt, and shocked me that we did not take it more seriously at home than we did. And that is actually what I have heard the Minister and the rapporteurs across the parties say, so it is really the one who is dealing with this so thank you for it. When we come up with the argument to compare with neighbouring countries, it is because, when we look at some of these things, we are talking about some of the same animals. This applies, for example, to the wolf's murder. That is also what we see in other countries, and some of the wolves even wander across the borders from Germany to Denmark and back again. Therefore, there will also be some sense in looking at how we can have a level that is similar to that of the others, so that's the same way you look at this. Because this is all about how we look at nature. Well, is it really okay just to drop some poison because there are some birds of prey that bother your area? Or is it just fun to be filmed while shooting a wolf? Well, what kind of a view of nature is it expressing? It is, of course, at the same time that, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, we are currently working with nature in relation to natural parks. We are looking at how we can create more space for nature, more protection of nature, also under the auspices of the United Nations. It's all about how we look at nature, and then this question comes in too: is it really okay to be able to go out and do this? And it's not. I believe that punishment also works preventively, especially in a case such as this one, where it is about deliberate crime. Because it's not something you just get to, that is, spill a little deadly poison in places where you know there's birds of prey. It's premeditated. You also know that it is really difficult to get caught up in it because it is happening where there are not many people and there is not necessarily anyone who sees that you are doing it. And if you get caught in it, you get a very low penalty. That is what we want to do with this proposal, and that is also what I hear from the rapporteurs across the parties. So thank you for that. And a special thanks to Mrs Mona Juul for a very powerful speech on behalf of nature. And that's what this is all about: standing up for nature. We must look after nature and remind each other how valuable and important it is, and so we do so by setting a level of punishment that is higher. Then I know that it is up to the courts to assess how to measure punishment and so on. That is not what we are interfering with, but what kind of punishment is there. We have looked at neighbouring countries and we think that is the right way to do so. That is something I said in my question to the Minister. I have been past the Minister sometimes with this wish, and I am glad if this proposal can push for this process to start now. So I am also very much looking forward to the work of the committee on the transparency that was involved in making something about this so that we can get turbo on it and get something out of it. If this is the result of this resolution, I am very happy. And if we are to look forward to a start on 2022 with a proposal that shows what way we can go to set a higher penalty for deliberate fauna crime, as this is, then I am happy; then we have moved something today with this good treatment, even though it is 22 o'clock. So thank you to the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220340	We are not quite finished yet, because there is a brief comment on Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220345	Thank you. Thank you for the reflections of the proposer here in the end. It's hard to discover that it's actually really hard to discover, and we don't know the scope either. And I would like to know whether the rapporteur will try to put some words on how the rapporteur thinks we can discover more. I haven't quite heard that. Because some of what the Minister is suggesting is that we need to find new methods, and there is the extension of the penal framework, after all, not the method of discovering more of this kind of crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220431	I totally agree. That's what we do, too. points out that you have to look at how to do more about the investigation. And there is also a report from Aarhus University that also points to how to go in and do some prevention. This applies, among other things, to: the more proactive police investigation. There is also the idea of working with whistleblowers, because we have heard of cases where some say: we know that many more wolves have been killed than you know anything about. So it could be a way to involve them. So I think there are a number of things to do. Again, as we point out in the proposal, and as has also happened in committee work earlier, back in 2018 and 2019, it is also something about looking at what you do elsewhere that works. In other words, are there other countries where a different form of judicial cooperation is being developed that helps to solve it? We really think that's the way to go. And that is where we have to look at what it requires of resources and how they can be set aside. I think there are many ways to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220536	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220538	I think that the very thing about the wolf rabble came to the Danes' knowledge only because someone was sitting over in the bust and filming it while it happened; it wasn't the perpetrator himself who filmed this. But that's not exactly what I wanted to say. Finally, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware of the fact that there are more convictions and a higher level of detection and detection in the other Nordic countries and other countries with which we are comparing ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220612	It's not something I have a hundred percent overview of. What we have done is actually to investigate how to work in other ways in other countries, because we can see that what we do in Denmark does not work. That is why we are pointing out that we need to look out and look at some of the different forms of judicial cooperation that exist. It may also be that there must be cooperation between the authorities of the countries in order to clarify what is going on across countries, for example. In relation to premeditated killing of wolves. So that is the way we point to doing it in the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220640	Then it's mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220643	Thank you. That is a little in line with what the previous questioner said. This is, in fact, a very sincere question: does the rapporteur for the authors of the motion have a feeling that it has a preventive effect in our neighbouring countries that they have stricter penalties?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220704	We can certainly see that it is within a short period of time that a number of countries have chosen to raise their penalties. After all, they have also had the same challenges that we have had at home. And there we do not really think that we should wait to be able to make an evaluation about x number of years of what it has meant in Norway or what the higher fines have meant in Finland, etc. But instead, we think we should get started looking at how we can do it at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220730	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427220743	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 28 April 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
