ParlaMint-DK_20210115100003	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: The Treasury Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 139 (Proposal for a law on interest-free loans corresponding to the A-tax and labour market contributions reported and deferment of payment period for registration tax on motor vehicles in connection with covid-19). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210115100027	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until further notice. We should also remember, as usual in this kind of debate, when you have been on the platform, to get the alcohol off. Then it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115100048	Thank you very much, and I should like to make a statement. We must take care of our patients in the health care system, but we must also take care of our employees who work with some of the most ill. We have a psychiatry that is suffering, and we have too few employees to carry out a task with several mentally ill people who need help. Therefore, it is important that we listen to the employees' cry for help in situations where their lives and their family's lives are put at risk. We need to ensure a secure workplace so that we can recruit more staff and where more staff can ensure better treatment for our patients. So when I hear the stories that a lot of people in the psychiatry bring about, about how they are cared for in their homes, taking pictures of their children, being forced to move, get a protected address or change work, I think it has an incredibly high cost for the individual and that we have to see what we can do. The staff have looked at how they, for example. in the police use a service number instead of a name • a name that can otherwise be recognized and quickly displayed and thus easily copied and where you can then fit the employee up and threaten the person and they would like to copy it to the psychiatry. Therefore, they have suggested that instead of stating a recognizable name or initials, they may use a service number so that you cannot search the person in the same way. This is supported by Danish Nursing Council, FOA, Younger Doctors and other organizations, as with a service number you can still file a complaint and file a case against an employee by using it. It has also been put forward in the group working on the new announcement, but it has not been fully heard. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we have turned this case around and looked at how to ensure patient safety while at the same time ensuring the safety of staff. That is why we believe that the Minister should ensure that employees are able to use service numbers instead of full names in future. We hope, of course, that the Minister will appreciate the staff, listen to their appeal and thus ensure that this will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115100320	Thank you. That was the reason, and when we have got the sprites of thanks for it, Liselot Blixt is the answer, and that is the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115100355	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the question and for justifying the question. This is an important issue and an important debate, and it has to be said that, as far as I am concerned, there is constant pressure, and constant pressure is sometimes expressed in very, very unfortunate and tragic events. Recently, shortly before New Year, we have experienced in an unhappy way that an employee on a social psychiatric housing offer was killed by a resident. A young man has lost his life while he was doing his job, and we can never and must never accept that, nor can we accept other forms of violence, threats, harassment of employees. The safety of health care staff is the alpha and the omega, and they provide high-quality, 24 hours a day 365 days a year, and we must take it seriously when the call is made and this time it is done by the staff. Now this is about psychiatry, but unfortunately the problem is also relevant to employees in the somatics. Today's debate in the Chamber is therefore quite specifically about the possibility of a service number and the protection of staff in psychiatry. We can quickly agree that all employees must, of course, be able to feel safe both when they go to work and when they return home, and we can also note, unfortunately, that this is not the case for everyone today, and that that is what we can all learn about a violent and very unpleasant experience being sought out outside working hours, on the web as well as in reality. This does not happen for the majority of employees, but it happens for all, too many, and knowing that it just happens once, it is once too much, and it can certainly be a solution to soften the requirement for health professionals to appear with their full name in patient records, for example. by using service numbers, which are the subject of the debate. We must also face up to the fact that the introduction of service numbers cannot solve all the challenges alone and that there are also opposing considerations. After all, we are faced with a difficult dilemma, because there are two considerations here that come together. The protection of the employee, on the one hand, we must do everything we can, and, on the other hand, there are some basic patient rights that we must also do everything we can to ensure that we know who has been responsible for the treatment and who has written in, who has looked up your private, your confidential information in a medical file. These are the two principles that we have in our hands in this debate, and that is why I believe that we need to look at several factors if we are to succeed in preventing violence, harassment and threats to our employees. I would like to refer to three specific factors which I consider to be particularly relevant: firstly, the availability of information on employees in, for example, This is what today is all about, second of all, the responsibility that is as employer and that must be lifted in the best possible way, and thirdly, we must recognise this, a pressure of psychiatry and its consequences. As far as the first factor is concerned, that is to say information on patients' personnel, there is an easy availability of the full name of healthcare professionals, and this availability can of course help some healthcare professionals to be sought out and harassed by patients, perhaps particularly patients acting in immediate affection. Today there is a requirement that a healthcare professional should write his or her full name in a medical record in connection with the treatment, and therefore, by seeking access to his or her health record, a patient can easily and quickly access the full name of certain healthcare professionals and, on that basis, seek them out. That is why I believe that it is a step forward that we will have a revised journaling notice, which will enter into force per year. 1 July 2021. Because it bleeds up precisely the requirement for health care professionals to be identified in medical records, and that applies to everyone, not only those who work in psychiatry, but all health professionals. Specifically, this means that the requirement will change so that it will actually be possible for health professionals to write another unique identification in the journal instead of their full name. It may be initials, or it may be a service number, or it may be something third, and it is up to employers to create systems for it, and in most cases it will be our five regions here. We in the Ministry will continue to follow up on whether this opportunity is being exploited and how it is being used and also to ensure that one learns from one another after the experience one then gets here from 1 July when it enters into force. However, it is also very important that we do not stick each other in the eye and say that then we have solved the whole problem here. Because we must be completely honest and say that this softening of the requirement, that is, of this identification requirement, does not give a complete anonymity and complete protection of the full name of healthcare professionals. It provides a temporary protection and makes the full name less accessible, but it will still be the case that a patient, even after 1 July, will be able to contact the treatment site and, as a general rule, be informed of the full name of these initiatives or service numbers. It will then require something active extra of the patient; in other words, in future, the name details will not be as readily available as they are today for an immediate action in the affect. As a general rule, however, it will be possible to find out. And what does this mean by the overriding rule? Well, this is due to the principle of openness in the administration, and of course it also applies to hospital authorities, but in exceptional cases the place of treatment will be able to refrain from informing the health care provider's name to the patient. This requires the existence of what is described as essential protection considerations and which requires the secrecy of the name. It could, for example, be done. This is the case precisely where the patient has threatened the individual's life. In such a case, then, it will be possible not to give it information. It is also part of the overall picture that you can now look up your own medical information, in the common medical card, and see the name of the person who prescribed your medicine. The same applies to log information in the upcoming logging notice, which has just been consulted. Here we are looking at whether rules can be laid down to allow the region to make exceptions to logging in specific cases. But we must also remember that we are dealing with a completely central right that applies to all citizens, to all patients, that is to say, the central right that you can see as a patient who has had access to your and yours, i.e. our own electronic health record. That is why the derogations which will be necessary must be narrow, because that is a very, very important principle. I believe that this is a principle that is important for the individual, but indeed also for the whole confidence in our health care. We must therefore say that this is a very, very important debate on a difficult dilemma where, if you go the full way on one of the two tracks, you are blind to the important principle of the second track. So we have to have both considerations weighted here. And I have to say that it is a step forward with the change coming here in July, and although we do not completely remove access to the full names of healthcare professionals, it is my expectation that the change in the record keeping notice will have an impact on the staff that it will have a positive impact on their safety and security. At the same time, it is important that we look at other options and measures to take care of employees' safety. The second factor I mentioned is the role of the employer, and it is primarily our regions that are the employers of the employees of psychiatry. The responsibility of the regions under the legislation is to ensure a safe working environment for employees. Our regions inform us of this question debate that they have a systematic prevention work in terms of violence and threats to employees. This includes, among other things, carrying out analyses of specific situations so that they can learn from them and to strengthen the prevention of other similar situations. On the Danish Regioner side, they share knowledge and experience between the five regions, and they also offer expert advice and inspiration for the regional jobs focusing on the psychological working environment in relation to among others. violence and threats. I think it is particularly important for us to note that Danske Regioner is undertaking the task of sharing knowledge and good experiences between our five regions. It is absolutely crucial that we learn from each other on a concrete level, both to work to avoid conflicts, harassment and threats, and to know how to react and deal with the employee if that should happen. The last factor that I highlighted in my introduction is the conditions that psychiatry has generally enjoyed over a long period of time. Psychiatry has long been under pressure. It has had consequences, and we cannot run away from that. We hear, among other things. on psychiatrists who feel compelled to print patients early in order to make room for other patients with greater needs, because there are simply shortcomings out there, and that is just an inadequate treatment. This is not only fundamentally totally unacceptable in a health service like ours; it is also a risk factor for the context we are dealing with today. We can, among other things. state that, prior to committing the criminal act, a large proportion of the new psychiatric patients had received insufficient psychiatric treatment. Perhaps some of these actions could have been avoided with proper treatment. However, the fact that some patients receive inadequate treatment is not to me to see in any way a criticism of the staff of psychiatry. They do exceptionally important and good work every day. The point is that a pressure psychiatry has consequences, and I also believe that the pressure on psychiatry has had consequences in relation to the behaviour of some patients in seeking out and harassing certain employees. It must never be an excuse, either for patients or for others, for resorting to violence or threats, for there to be pressure on psychiatry, but we have to go deep into it and see what the explanation is behind this behavior, and we also have to learn from it so that we can build up a stronger psychiatry. It is absolutely essential for us to change the conditions of the staff in psychiatry and to support them to a greater degree than today. We have addressed this by the government, as you know. Together with the parties to the agreement in last year's Finance Act, we have set aside a permanent amount of 600 million. kr. annual to lift the psychiatry. This is a significant boost, which is intended to address the challenge, among other things. they are being established, they are being built in the psychiatric wards. In addition, work on a 10-year plan for psychiatry is well under way. It must ensure that in the next 10 years there is a focus on continuously strengthening psychiatry. It's a long, cool move. We will not solve the psychiatry's challenges with a fingertips, but it does not make it any less relevant to address that. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115101644	There are brief comments. It is first Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115101648	Thank you, Minister. There are a lot of things being talked about, and I can only say that beds do not do so if the staff are not there. It's just a page note. I would like to ask the Minister: what prevents a case from being brought against a health worker because there is a service number? What prevents you from seeing in the log, the record, the medical card and elsewhere that it is Pia who has number 31 who has made a mistake or has written something wrong? What prevents you from doing that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115101726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115101728	It would probably be possible to do so if it were introduced. That is probably the answer that the questioner needed. I'll have to confirm that. I know it will be possible to create such a system. But that does not change the fact that it seems to me to be a fundamental and central right that patients have the right to their health information. It is a central right, and I do not think that we are going to meet it by saying: yes, yes, but we can always take legal action. By far, the vast majority of patients who gain insight into who has seen in their case, who has ordained it and so on, do not need and will never need to bring a case. They need to know this precisely to ensure that there is security in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115101828	Mrs. Liselot Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115101833	But then I do not see the reason why you cannot have a service number when there is nothing to prevent a case being brought. It's not like my name is Liselott Blixt, because I'm Pia, 31. It's about the fact that if I've done something to the Minister, the Minister doesn't have to be able to find my address and step up at the address and threaten me and my family. That's what this is all about. There is talk of a lack of legal certainty, but where is the lack of legal certainty when a case can still be brought?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115101905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115101907	It appears that in the field of health there is simply a special full right of access to the individual patient's medical records. There has been this since 2010. This is due to the fact that patients must have the opportunity to have the complete insight into their disease and treatment course. I fully agree with the questioner that a system could be put in place so that a case could be brought, but I do not think that is the answer to everything, because the vast majority of people do not need to take a case, but they need to have the full insight so that there is full confidence that the right decisions will be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115101946	The good Friday mood ran out on me, because Mrs Liselott Blixt got two questions: there is only one question for each of us in the first round. Here you go, Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115101956	That's so great, 'cause I only have one question. I would like to hear: is it the Minister's experience that the regions will make use of the opportunity offered by the new journaling notice for this, that employees can register with anything other than full name in the records?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115102018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115102020	We will follow up on this and we will simply compare the five regions in that Danske Regions are asking to know continuously how things are going, what have been introduced by systems, and whether we can learn something from each other. On the basis of the meetings I have had both with employee groups, but also with management groups in our psychiatry, I am absolutely certain that there is a huge interest in this field. So I am sure that it will automatically appear on the agenda. I cannot say exactly how the individual regions have prepared it, but I am quite sure that it will come on the agenda, and otherwise we in the Ministry will ensure that we will have a hand in ensuring that we are aware that this opportunity is coming and that we are therefore preparing to organise a solution that makes sense and provides a greater degree of security in the individual regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115102114	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. And now we move on to the general negotiations, and hence to the general rules for short remarks. So now it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115102142	Thank you very much. Thank you for your reply. It is also very good to see that a small step has been taken in relation to the announcement that is coming. But if there's something we Danes have found out in this coronatid, then it's how important it is for us to have a health care professional who cares for all our sick citizens. They're in the lead when the rest of us have to go home. So much praise to those who, no matter where in health care they work, are there. But it must also be ensured that our employees, when they go home, can relax, can let go of work, can enjoy themselves with family and friends without having to turn around and see if they are now being persecuted; without waking up in the middle of the night bathed in sweat; without being on sick leave for long periods or quitting their dream job because it has too many costs. It happens more and more often that our healthcare staff are being sought out by patients and assaulted, harassed or threatened. It has simply become too easy. They wear name tags with their full name and title, and it can be seen in patient records, on the Health Platform, on Facebook and in other media. Well, it all makes it easy to find a name, to google it, and then you find the address, and thus you can drive out and seek out staff with whom you disagree, and you can threaten them. In September 2019, a 58-year-old doctor was killed. The suspect had printed out his journal page and sought her out and killed her. He had several health professionals on his list. It is a sad and completely meaningless murder of an employee who simply did his job. This proposal adheres to psychiatry, but it might as well apply to other departments or to the rest of the health care system. But we in the Danish People's Party have stuck to what's all about psychiatry, as this is where we see most reviews for violence, and then we've kind of started somewhere. We do, too, because the people I've been in contact with have come up with a stack of reports from several employees who tell each of their own stories about how they're being sought out, molested. They've told me how it affects their lives. I know that all of you other rapporteurs have had the same, and I know that many have had meetings with them and have been positive about their proposals, but this obviously does not hold out in the Assembly. There are, for example: a former hospital who writes to an employee, and now I quote: Nice family. Passe who you're fucking with, you son of a bitch. I'm not scared when you threaten me with police. You're gonna be scared for the rest of your life, faggot. This was sent along with a picture of the employee's children. I understand if you choose another job. We have a psychiatry that screams at staff, and when we do not have enough staff, then we cannot treat patients well enough, and then it is a vicious circle. We could do just one little thing here that could mean something. Of course that is not all, as the Minister also says, but it is just a small thing for us to be able to help the staff, and that is what they are shouting about. The Minister for Health has answered my questions and said in a FOA article that it is the task of the police if you are threatened or harassed. But, Minister, if you're attacked, the damage has been done. I hope the Minister will think of that when the Minister goes home to his own family, in security. Our Prime Minister said in his New Year's speech that we should be better at caring for the employees. So I'm wondering if, when we start this year, we couldn't help the employees here and now and make them more secure in their work? Well, yesterday there was an article about psychiatric services in the Region of Zealand: 24 employees have terminated their positions because of violence and threats. Reviews for violence against staff have increased from 2015 when there were 217, to 2019 when there was 628. How long do we have to wait? Well, it was decided in 2018 to change the announcement. There one group was set up and there were actually several employee organisations, but unfortunately they were not entirely listened to. After all, you only came to the conclusion that you could add initials, as the Minister also mentioned, and other things, but in the log and elsewhere you will find the name, full name and full title with a few clicks, and then you will go straight into Facebook or Google, and then you will also have the address. In the FOA, they say that they are looking with concern at the draft law on additions of log information to the notice of information and consent; there is a risk of eroding this point in the new journaling notice. Danish Nursing Council says that it should be sufficient to require a unique identification so that the treatment site can subsequently recover the employee concerned from the system. And then you wonder why their experience has not been taken into account in the work that has now been going on for over two years. So we in the Danish People's Party have a proposal for adoption that no other party has chosen to support. Apparently, we are the only party in the Folketing that believes that, when the announcement comes into force, we must of course ensure that it can be with service number. The Danish People's Party puts forward the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that for two years it has been working on a new journaling notice, which is currently in consultation, but that employees have not been guaranteed the full anonymity as they still have to write full name in the log system. In addition, the Danish Parliament notes that psychiatric patients have easy access to the full name of healthcare professionals through medical records and log systems, and that therefore staff are at risk of being sought out privately by patients. The Danish Parliament therefore instructs the government to ensure that health professionals in the psychiatry can register with an ID number in order to ensure their safety when the new journaling notice enters into force. • V 46).
ParlaMint-DK_20210115102755	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115102801	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. We broadly agree with this that we must also ensure proper conditions for the staff in psychiatry and health care in general. I agree that we should have looked at this and that this is something we should have done about. But the question is whether it should be an ID number alone or whether one could also imagine that one might, for example, be an ID number. be able to register with a first name and a number or something else, for there is something in the relational part of the treatment, that is, that there is a difference between whether you are met by a number or whether you are met by a person with a name, but not necessarily the full name. I just want to know if it was something that the Danish People's Party could see itself in, i.e. that we found a solution in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115102848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115102849	I'm sure we can. I also think you should use the first name, and then you can choose which first name you want to use. I used the example of Pia 31 Pia as my first name, and 31 is my registration number, the number of my chair seat, or what you call it, and if you google Pia 31 or look for it on Facebook, you can't just find out that it's Liselott Blixt or where I'm at. It's the same thing. If I were attacked by someone, I'd probably get help. We know there's a lot of people here who have PET guards, but the staff in the psychiatry aren't getting anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115102927	Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115102930	Thank you. I am glad that we may be able to find a solution there, because I think it is important to ensure that we also retain the relational, and to make it clear that it is not really about all citizens who are admitted to a psychiatric ward being potentially dangerous or that we should protect ourselves in that way. But it is clear that there is a problem here that we must have looked at. At any rate, I think it is positive if we can try to look at how we can maintain the relation in the treatment and avoid stigmatising a group of citizens who are hospitalized.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115102959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103000	I totally agree. I don't really care if it's Jørgen Jensen who's a doctor that day, and if there's Jørgen 535 EX or something like that, then I want to know it's him. I don't need to know his full name. I just need to know that it's Jørgen 535 EX I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103025	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103026	Thank you. My question was actually very similar to Enhedslistens, that is to say, whether it should be a number, or whether it might also be a name, precisely in order for you to still feel that you have some personal relationship. So I'm glad we've been clarified. Then there was just one little detail. The rapporteur says they are the only ones who support this. We will only know that when we have voted on it. One can, of course, vote in favour of the adoption text put forward by DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103050	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. After all, I have tried to send my proposal for adoption around to all the people. I know that you get a lot of e-mails, which is why you are of course apologized. But I provoke a little sometimes, because then I get people out of the chairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103107	Yeah, but not the second time. Thank you. Then we can move on to Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103135	Every day, thousands of skilled workers go to work to support some of our most vulnerable citizens. Doctors, nurses, social educators, social and health assistants and many others are in contact every day with patients with mental illness in health care and in the country's settlements. They do a lot of work and a big difference for a lot of people. They take care of some of our most vulnerable citizens, and that is why, of course, we also have a responsibility to take special care of them. Unfortunately, we hear stories of serious threats, violence, and in some cases even killing. It is no more than a few weeks ago that we again saw a very tragic example in which an employee at a settlement was killed. Of course, we must constantly consider whether we are doing well enough to protect staff. The challenges in our psychiatry are complex, and that is not something we solve with a single approach, and it is not a task we solve alone at Christiansborg, because the regions and municipalities play a very important role. Time does not allow me to mention all the initiatives in the field of psychiatry, but let me stress that we have added more money to ensure more hands in the psychiatry, and that the Danish Health and Social Protection Agency is currently working on a major investigation to identify the challenges of psychiatry, with a view to negotiating a 10-year plan for psychiatry, which among other things. must look at the context of our psychiatric system so that no one is lost and so that we get help for example. vulnerable young people as early as possible. Our initiatives aim to ensure better treatment and a better everyday life for patients and a safer working day for employees. In concrete terms, we are asked today about the possibility that in future the staff of the psychiatrist may use a service number instead of their full name when they register something in a patient's file so that the staff do not have to live in fear of being visited by a patient in the affected. Basically, I think the thinking behind the proposal is right. We must protect our employees without compromising on the right for patients to gain insight into their records. Therefore, it makes good sense to consider whether staff can register otherwise than in full name. Therefore, I am also pleased to read that the new draft journaling notice envisages precisely introducing such an option where employees can register other than by name, for example. with its initials. This is done on the basis of a recommendation from a working group. There may be situations in which, on request, the name of the person covered by the initiatives in the health record has to be provided, for example in order to provide proper guidance to the patient. This will probably be the case, whether you register with a service number or with your initials, but we will reduce the risk of patients acting in affection towards employees. We therefore see the new announcement and the possibility of not registering with full names as an important step forward. Of course, we would like to help follow up on whether the new rules are being applied and how they work in practice, and of course we are always open to discussing new proposals on how to ensure better protection for our employees. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, I will read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises the difficult dilemma between the consideration of basic patients' rights as the right of access and information about who has treated the patient and looked up in one's private information, and on the other hand the protection of information about employees, for example. full names so they are not abused. The upcoming possibility of other unique identification in the journal, e.g. initials rather than the full name of the health care professional can provide protection, but for the sake of patients' rights it is not perfect and cannot therefore stand alone. The Ministry of Health and the Elderly will follow up on how the new option is being used and what impact it will have on the course of treatment, treatment relationship and employee safety. The Danish Parliament expects that strengthening and development of psychiatry will contribute to treatment processes and document practice, both patients and employees can be confident about. The Danish Parliament notes that the regions as employers are responsible for ensuring a safe working environment for the staff in the psychiatry. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103721	Thank you. That will then be part of the further debate. There is a brief comment on Mrs Liselott Blix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103727	Thank you very much. I also commend the fact that, after two years of hard work and trouble, we have come to such a tiny step forward. But I do not understand why you do not listen to the professional organisations. Can the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party tell me why the Socialists do not listen to the Danish Nursing Council or the FOA, which is the organisation that knows how their members are treated? Why have they not been listened to in the working group which has been under way for two years? And now it takes six months for it to be put forward, and then you'll see if it's used. How many years must it take, how many murders must it take, how many have to leave the psychiatry before you want to look at it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103815	Thank you for the rose, and thank you for your efforts. It is, of course, common ground that we have come where we have come today. In the proposal for adoption, which I have read out and which the Social Democrats are behind, we want to follow up. We are even so specific that we want to see what impact this will have on the course of treatment, treatment relationship and employee safety. And when we do, that is to say to follow up and see if there is a need for more, and have this open discussion about what we can do and how we can constantly become more skilled, yes, then we must have the professional organisations with us. Of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103904	Liselott Blix, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103905	But that is not what the rapporteur says in the proposal for adoption. Where is the log system in it where you can log in just with a few clicks and see that it may well be that there are some initials or something else in the journal or other places, but when you go in and log in, it has to be the full name? Will this be changed by the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115103930	As the rapporteur knows, we are limited by the number of words in this text of adoption, so we cannot write everything. But I think we should use this text of adoption. At least it's my intention to follow up in a good way, and there's the record keeping notice and the logging notice that's on the way, so we'll get a look at it in a context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115104011	There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. The rapporteur is going to have to puff it up a little bit. That's good. Thank you. Then we move on to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115104052	Thank you, sir. President. On behalf of the Left psychiatry rapporteur, Jane Heitmann, I am going to read out our speech and proposals for adoption. Last year we received a request from two gentlemen, Emil Kjeldsmark Lemvig and Frankie Leonhardt, both employed in psychiatry. The question was how psychiatric staff increasingly experience that some patients locate them and also, in some cases, seek out the psychiatric staff because, for one reason or another, a patient is dissatisfied with the diagnosis or the way an employee has described the patient's condition in the medical record. Emil and Frankie have since sent an open letter to both the Minister for Health and the elderly and to the Chairman of the Danish Regions, Mrs Stephanie Lose. The letter describes the situation and the two gentlemen have also been in the presence of the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly on the same subject. If you're watching today, Emil and Frankie, I'd like to sign for your fine, dialogue-seeking way of making contact with us politicians. I know that you have been in dialogue with many of the colleagues who are in the Chamber today. You have been on the social media, in the daily newspapers and have done everything you could to make Christiansborg realize the challenges you face and also take your concerns seriously and not least act on them. You have greatly sought dialogue rather than confrontation. When we have the question debate we are doing today, which has been raised by the Danish People's Party and thanks for the opportunity for Mrs Liselott Blixt, we on the Left would like to make it clear that we are completely open to discussing how we can change the legislation, so that the staff in the psychiatry, for example. may use an identification number when registering for their own name. After all, it is no secret that some people have a special or special name that makes it easy to track them down if you have bad intentions. That's not gonna work. It should be safe to go to work, just as it should be safe to be employed in psychiatry. The question is, however, whether we should also look at the somatics in the same way, because it is not only in psychiatric medicine that staff are facing challenges with patients who subsequently make inappropriate contact or act threateningly. An ID number could be a solution and a viable path, but it is also crucial that we also tackle the challenges that lie within the log system itself, because it doesn't work if you are screened behind an ID number or pseudonymization in the journal if the person and the patient can subsequently see who has been logged into the journal. Of course, a journal ID number should be traceable back to a given employee, just as an ID number should not be a free ticket to write anything in the file. In the same way that every employee has the right to safety, the patient also has rights which must be respected by, for example: A complaint. It is from a patient's point of view a very large change in current practice to introduce ID numbers. It could therefore be considered whether ID numbers should be used in particular situations, or whether there might be other IT solutions that are relevant. There is no doubt that in the cases and inquiries we have received, the worst thing is when the seriousness and threats that you encounter are not just going to hurt yourself, but are going to hurt your family and, above all, your children. It creates uncertainty and insecurity when your children are to experience threatening people, for example. make contact on the open street just because you've been doing your job. From the descriptions we have received from Emil and Frankie, I know that, unfortunately, they and their colleagues also have this type of experience in their luggage. I also know that threats to both life and health have great human consequences, and it must never be the case in Denmark that you are insecure to go to work, afraid to make a police report or feel that your personal boundaries and integrity are being overstepped over and over again just because you are doing your job and doing everything you can to take good care of some of the people in our society who very much need it. There is a great need for us to strengthen psychiatry and also to ensure that it is safe to be staff there. We therefore hope that the Minister for Health and the Elderly will take a favourable view of the proposal made by the Danish People's Party to highlight the matter and also the proposals that have come from the actors in the field, thus also calling the relevant rapporteurs for real negotiations, so that together and preferably politically, we can find some security-building solutions for the psychiatric staff, without compromising on patients' legal certainty. In the Left, we want security for both all staff in the psychiatric wards and in our public offices in general, for no one should be insecure by going to work, afraid to describe the patient's condition in the journal or fear threats to their families. Against this background, I would like to read out a joint text for adoption. It is on behalf of the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance. Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that psychiatric patients have easy access to the full name of healthcare professionals through the health record and the log system. Several health professionals have experienced a negative confrontation and a private visit by former patients. This creates unreasonable insecurity for psychiatric employees. The Folketing therefore instructs the government to ensure safety for health professionals and to call for negotiations on how health professionals can register with an ID number or other neutral identification in order to ensure the safety and security of their own and their families. • V 48).
ParlaMint-DK_20210115104627	Thank you. This will be part of the further debate. There is a brief comment on Mrs Liselott Blix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115104631	Yes, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby will not get away, because the rapporteur was a minister at the time. And first, I would like to know what the rapporteur thinks about why so much time has passed. I mean, it's been over 2 years, as I understand it.I don't know exactly the date in 2018, but now we're in 2021, so it's maybe almost 3 years, so before it gets out, it's been a really long time. What is the rapporteur's position on this? I would, of course, say that I think it is a pity that the other bourgeois parties have not supported us in saying that this should be included in the new regulation. But, of course, I would like to support it if the Minister chooses to negotiate rather than just to do so. Of course, we in the Danish People's Party are in on it. But I would like to know what the reason is for not requiring the government to do so, so it will be included in the new announcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115104735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115104736	Thank you for the question. I think it's been way too long. Well, Corona can of course excuse some of it, but it is ultimately about people's security. And with regard to all the work that has been set in motion, both in terms of protecting our employees and looking at digital solutions, in terms of how to feel secure as an employee, and the entire journaling work • all the working groups that have been there, I would have liked to have seen it completed a long time ago. In addition, a very broad work was also set in motion in relation to another part of the psychiatry, namely the part which sometimes causes frustration, that is, that you have not been able to delete files, and the broad work that was started across a large number of ministries has also come to a standstill. So there are a number of points where it has to be said that psychiatric and psychiatric patients and employees suffer greatly from the fact that corona has meant that a lot of things have, in our opinion at least, been too much delayed in a process. And that is also why, in our proposal for adoption, we call on the Minister to call for negotiations, not because it may not necessarily be included in the notices that are now in consultation. It would be wonderful if it could, but so that we have some real solutions and some action in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115104844	Thank you. Liselott Blix, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115104846	After all, the rapporteur has just jumped in instead of the Psychiatry rapporteur on the Left, but I would like to ask about the working group that was set up where there were some employee organisations that actually do not feel that they were consulted all the way through. Is this something that the Left will look at in relation to whether something has actually been done in the working group that has done so? In other words, the ministers and the government tend to set up one working group after another, but if you do not listen to the employee organisations, what is it worth?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115104925	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115104926	Well, I certainly hope that both the current minister and the government will listen to the hearings that are coming. But it is a balance, and I said that in my speech, because there is also a concern for the legal certainty of patients, in relation to the fact that there should not be a free ticket, whether it be about complaints or it is about the desire to have a dialogue about the diagnoses that are written in your file and what they really cover up and what else. It should not be the case that you no longer have a relationship with the practitioners who are there. And that's why it has to be a balance. In addition, there is the issue which I also mentioned, and which I know our psychiatry rapporteur is very aware of, in relation to the fact that it is of no use that we change anything in one system if it does not also have consequences in the other log systems, and that is why we are calling for negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115105008	Thank you to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Then we can move on to Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115105029	Thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising an important debate with this question on how we can create greater security for employees in psychiatry. This is a question which has mainly been raised because employees have contacted us specifically. With electronic record keeping, it has become much easier to access your journal information than before, where access to documents should be sought, and at the same time it has become easier to find each other and look for each other on social media, especially if you have a special surname. We see employees hanging out and harassed on social media where there can be a very raw and threatening tone. This has made the problem even more topical and widespread. At the same time, it is a debate filled with dilemmas. On the one hand, employees must be safe both at work and when they go home. It is a problem if you, as an employee, run the risk of being sought out when you get home and your family is also exposed. That is simply not fair. We must not accept violence and threats as a condition for employees. At the same time, there is a concern that we, as citizens, know who has treated us, written about us, and have been in our files with sensitive information. The openness and confidence that personal information is being properly processed is important. The possibility of being involved in self-treatment is essential for confidence in the treatment. And the ability to control how the state uses our data itself has an impact on our confidence that the state collects huge data about our very personal relationship in a sound way. In the SF we understand the employees who want identification numbers, because they fear for themselves and their families, and they want protection. But we ask ourselves whether there is no other way to solve the problem. There are also citizens in the somatics, at the job centre and in the social system who can be threatening if they feel unfairly treated, not understood or are in affection. We may be concerned about what this might mean if public employees who are dealing with citizens who may be frustrated all have identification numbers. You risk putting all citizens in a category that is potentially dangerous, and the more you meet citizens as potentially dangerous, the harder it is to build the treatment alliance that is needed to make people actually feel better. After all, the vast majority of citizens deal with their medical records with great confidence in health care professionals. At the same time, it prevents me from being able as a citizen to check who has had access to my data. An ID number cannot deny a suspicion that my neighbor, who may be a nurse, has checked my health data because he or she had access to them. So it's a dilemma. But one thing is certain: we need to be better at caring for employees. In SF we are not convinced that introducing identification numbers in general is the right way to create security. It also lies in resources, professionalism, management and approach, and the question is which ways are there. It is already possible to be partially anonymous by having only the first names of the signs on which the employees may be wearing. It's the local employer's choice. As has already been mentioned, it has also now become an option in the record keeping notice, which has been in consultation, that an employee can register under, for example: initials rather than the full name, so you cannot immediately see it and act in affection. You can get the information afterwards. We would ask the Minister to follow up on how this possibility is being used and what it will mean for treatment courses, documentation practices, treatment relations between employees and patients and, above all, the safety of employees. I would also like to know how the health care treatment and documentation practices can help to escalate and reduce conflicts respectively. The aim must of course be to create a proper framework for a treatment that makes codes and anonymisation not necessary, and this is very much about the working environment and management. I would like us to address the responsibility of management to a greater extent when citizens have an experience that the treatment they receive does not meet their needs. For a safe working environment is an employer's responsibility. It is not the employees' own responsibility to avoid conflicts with citizens or to protect themselves from threats and violence. Management should have a look at how conflicts build up and repeat themselves in the workplace as a whole and specifically in relation to the individual employees, i.e. what kind of working conditions and situations create a basis for conflict to arise and escalate. However, the SF supports the adoption text that the Socialist rapporteur read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115105532	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment. Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115105535	Thank you very much. I think it is sad that because you should not look at everyone as potentially dangerous, and because we should not suspect them all, you take it that it is all right for some to get hurt. That's how I think you can look at it. We've got a rough world. We can see it on the social media, we can see it around that there is a rough tone. We have got some very different human aspects in terms of how we associate with each other. That's what you see in psychiatry. Maybe that's where you see it first. We also saw it when you went out on the streets and started to smash things there, and that's what you're experiencing, just to a greater extent in the psychiatry of a world where we've got a great deal of openness, because we all have to have trust and respect each other. It sounds more like something from the 1960s instead of saying that we are now living in a world with a completely different approach, and that is the world we have to face. Does the rapporteur not see that we have a problem at all? And then I would like to ask how it will be impossible to pursue a patient case with an identification number.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115105653	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115105655	First of all, I think I took it very seriously. I am very concerned that employee safety is in order, but I also believe that there is a great deal of employer responsibility and management responsibility in assessing why it is this is happening: what is it in the documentation practice that is, what is it in the treatment that is in the department that creates frustrated patients, and how is it that management can help ensure that the framework for the good treatment relationship is also there? To the last question about what prevents it, I would say that there is nothing to prevent it, but if there is an identification number, it is not possible to see if anyone has been inside to look at my file, which I do not want to have looked at my file.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115105742	Mrs. Liselot Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115105745	Now it is the case that no matter what, you will always be able to find the individual, but exactly when you need it for something suspicious, it is not the case that you go in and ask as such. Of course you'll always know. It does not matter to the rapporteur whether my name is Pia 31. You can't find my address, but you know it's me, and it's me you can talk to. We can go talk about your case. We can do a proper file. What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115105809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115105811	Basically, I want my file to be mine. This also applies to the social system, because if you really have to take this seriously, it is also all our job centre employees, all our employees in the family departments out in the social system, which also has documentation requirements, which we have to include in this rule. I just do not want a system where the distance between citizens and employees is so great and where the citizen's experience of ownership of his or her own case disappears.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115105849	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we welcome Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115105927	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this question. I would also like to thank those who have helped to raise this debate. Because this is a central debate, and it is basically about how we treat the talented and dedicated staff we have in our health care, whether it is in psychiatric or somatic. And it is also generally about how we treat our public employees. For that is absolutely right, as Mrs Trine Torp said: in principle, this is also about how to treat employees at job centres, in family departments and elsewhere where there is close contact with citizens in situations that may be conflicting. That is why I think it is very important that we look at this whole problem. I think, at least, that when we look at it, it will be important that we also distinguish between the fact that we both have the opportunity to come back and see who has written in your file, but also that there is still the possibility of the relationship, that is to say that there is the possibility of establishing relations between the public employees and between the employees of the psychiatrist and the patients who are there, because that is absolutely crucial. It is clear that the challenge we face is, of course, that we have seen some examples where people have been so ill or so pressured that it has meant that staff have been subjected to threats or harassment. We do, for example. In the case of social psychiatry, where an employee was killed. We have also seen this in connection with the management of corona in hospitals, where staff have also been harassed and where they have also been hung on social media, and this is, of course, completely unacceptable. What is important, however, is that we find the balance that ensures that we take into account both the fact that citizens can have a link with the treatment they receive and also the possibility of being able to go back into their files and look, while at the same time there is the protection of employees and the safety of employees, in relation to the fact that neither threats nor harassment should be possible either at work or in private life. That is why I just think it is important to emphasise that it is clear that if this sort of thing is going on, it is something that needs to be reported. In other words, if you are subjected to stalking or if you are exposed to threats or other, it is something that needs to be reported to the police. However, with regard to the specific proposal, I think it is essential that we also ensure that we get a psychiatry which is also marked by both the possibility of relation work and recovery. It also means that there is a co-ownership to the treatment you receive, and there it also means something that you will be able to identify the employee you are with; not necessarily with a surname, but at least with a first name, so you not only talk to a number, but also talk to a human being. I also think that the crucial thing in this is that we do not solve it alone with this, in other words, that it is not just a question of ensuring that one can be protected more with one's name. It is also a question of ensuring a psychiatry where there are sufficient resources where there is an opportunity to do the engaging treatment and where there is better opportunity to ensure that there are also resources to be able to do relational treatment. So I am, in fact, very open to look at this and keep track of whether the regions are also fulfilling their employer responsibility in terms of securing their staff, but also ensuring that we are given sufficient resources to get an inclusive treatment in the psychiatry. And I think it's important that when we look at this, it's both psychiatry and somatics. But the most important thing, I think, is that there is a clear employer responsibility for taking this seriously. That is why we also support the proposal for adoption which the Socialist rapporteur read out. And I should also like to welcome the radical rapporteur, Mr President. Stinus Lindgreen, who is unfortunately ill today, and say that the Radicals also support the adoption text.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115110359	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Liselott Blix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115110403	Thank you very much. I am very pleased about that, because as such I can hear that we are very much in agreement on many points, but I am a little sad that you do not support pushing a little more, which I actually believe the Enhedslisten would like to do. Because this isn't about any of those who get hospitalized with depression or borderline, or whatever else it might be. Much of what we see is that gang members who come in threaten some of the practitioners on their lives, and I don't think they're receiving this recovery effort that's being offered. The rapporteur said that it should be reported to the police, and then the matter should take its course, and there I would ask the rapporteur to read some of the documents we have received, where someone tells us that they had reported it, but that they could not get name protection for the trial, and therefore they failed to go that way. That is what we are faced with: you choose instead of not reporting it, and where do we end up? Well, the reality we have isn't this pussy reality where we can iron people with the hairs, and that's why I'm glad you're backing up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115110510	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115110513	Well, I'm certainly not of the opinion that we have a pussy reality either, but I just think it's important when we discuss a subject like this, that we also make sure that we get the whole spectrum. For it is clear that there are some clear issues that we need to look at to see how we can better protect employees. But we also have a system where the vast majority of citizens who are hospitalized, for example. Psychiatry, really would like to contribute to the treatment, but which may well get into a very stressful situation. They can be psychotic, they can act in affection and of course we must also be able to ensure that they are taken into account so that they do not necessarily take action in affection. But the vast majority are, of course, those who would like to contribute to their treatment. We just need to be careful so that we do not do some kind of stigmatisation, that is. a system where it becomes a patient against system. We must ensure that there is always the possibility of establishing relations, and that is where the balance lies. However, I agree that there is a challenge and that we need to have a look at it, but we just have to be careful not to go all the way to the other ditch, where we then also remove the possibility of doing the relational treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115110617	Liselott Blix, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115110621	Actually, I think those patients out there know who we're talking about. For some of these patients, too, are afraid of some of the other patients who cannot behave with the staff. So we have a big problem and we have to face it and say: what can we do to protect our employees? Because if we are to protect and help all psychiatric patients, we have to have staff and we do not have staff if they flee because they experience violence and threats. And I would just like to point out that there are job centres and so on. I mean, I'm a psychiatric rapporteur; I can't start talking about job centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115110655	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115110658	I think Mrs Liselott Blixt has a very central point in relation to the fact that there are very few patients. However, it is not only a question of them being menacing to other staff, it is also a question of them being able to do so to other patients, and we will not solve this simply by saying that we are introducing initials or a number. After all, it is precisely about ensuring that there are more staff and we get better and more wide-ranging treatment in psychiatry. That is why it is also a question of ensuring that we also have a more inclusive and related psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115110732	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And after despriting, we can move on to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115110813	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this question debate, and thank you to the staff in the psychiatry who have put us on the doors, so to speak, in a positive sense, and made us aware of this huge problem, which is that there are employees who do not want to work in the psychiatry because they feel threatened, and there have also been some of the terrible examples that we have heard and read about, which are quite unacceptable. What I want to say is about the staff. After all, we have a psychiatry where there is also a shortage of staff, and for this reason alone we have to act on it. Because there's a huge need in psychiatry to get the level raised. In other words, we need to expand psychiatry by a few more places, because we simply have a problem with patients who have not finished being discharged prematurely because there is simply no room for them. It goes without saying that it creates some problems not only for the individual but also for society as a whole. When you are undergoing psychiatric treatment, you have to be treated until you can get well, and at least until you can finish your treatment. So we must ensure as well as we can that no one ever feels threatened and is sought out outside their working hours. That is why I think that the intentions of these proposals for adoption are very good. We feel a little like others have said they do, with just a number, that it must also be a welcoming and appropriate way of dealing with staff and mentally ill people in everyday life. So I imagine something like something with a nickname, so that you have a good opportunity to communicate in everyday life in the wards. So we agree with the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group, which calls for the safety of health professionals either in the form of an identification number or another neutral identification, because, as I say, it could also be a nickname. And then we hope that we will be called to negotiations so that we can have all the dilemmas, because we all have a need to be able to see our medical records for a number of reasons, so of course that opportunity must still be there, but it must be possible to do so in such a way that it does not create insecurity for the staff in the department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115111117	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we'll clean up here). Yeah, we've gotten good at that. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115111140	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. I think it makes sense for it to be looked at. I am not one of those who believe that we can make sure that there are no such cases as the ones we hear about. Because if it's the case that people and it doesn't matter whether they're mentally ill or they're not very determined to find information about other people, then they can do so in a society like the Danish one, especially if it's a person who chooses to be available on Facebook and elsewhere. It must never be a condition that you cannot participate on social media or anything else in order to have a job, but I am not one of those who say that we can completely eradicate it here. But you can do something, and what you can do, you have to do it. There I think it is a good proposal from the Danish People's Party, namely to ask whether we can create a greater anonymity around these people. Yeah, we can, it looks like, and then let's do it. I certainly think so. And if there were a resolution on it, we would certainly vote in favour of it in the New Citizens' Party. Then some people have also raised a more general debate on psychiatry. It is true, as the Minister also said, that this is a two-legged affair. One is what we can do in the specific case, and the other is what we can do about these things in general in psychiatry. We've been great advocates of • and I'm very much in favour of making a long-term plan in this area, which will reach 5-10 years into the future. In here in the Folketing you make a settlement, and then it's the ones you make, and then they drive for many years, and then you drive forward like that. This should be done in this area, so that it is not through pool funds and all sorts of things temporarily, these things have to run, but so that we simply have a long-term recovery of psychiatry. There are very, very massive problems both in terms of beds and there is something in terms of administration and bureaucracy and how much these specialists spend their time on it. Then there is something about how to use data, which is also problematic. But you also have to remember that in some of this there's actually also a little positive story. It's that we've gotten better at catching these things, diagnosing more, and that there's more coming into the treatment system. So you have to remember to bring that too. But when more people come into the treatment system, it is also important that the funds keep up while we get better at dealing with these things. So there are a large number of areas that I think should be looked at, and that is why we think it is a good thing that a position is taken on this. One of the points that has not yet been mentioned here is that of punishment. 'Cause one is, if you're affected, you do something. Something else is if we introduce this with the fact that you cannot find the names of these employees right away that you are no longer in affection, if you are still digging into it and so maybe planning an attack or making threats to people in public service. I think it might be possible to go in there and look at the level of punishment, because that is not very high. The penalty framework is high, it is up to 8 years in prison, but if you look at the case law about it, there are both fines and often conditional prison sentences for these things, which are very, very low. So it's also an area you might be able to look at. It is not going to change anything for those who do it in affection, but it may do it for those who sit and consider and plan it if the consequences of doing it become greater. So it is also an element which could perhaps be looked at and which has not yet been mentioned in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115111504	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we welcome the Minister for Health and the elderly to pick up the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115111519	Thank you, President. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs for this debate today. I think it has been shown that the debate has been very, very much needed. I also think it has to be said that we have revolved around the two major principles that this is about. And I think it points forward in relation to the changes that are being introduced this summer, which means that in the files as an employee you will have the opportunity when it is introduced from a central point of view, and then it is taken on by the employers, i.e. the five regions, either to introduce or to write some initials or an employee number or other. So it's going to move it a little bit along the way. However, I also think that today's debate shows very, very clearly that, at least for a large majority of the parties, there is a great awareness that we must not throw out another principle here, the second important principle: the principle that you as a patient have the right to gain insight into records and that there must be this trust between patients and employees. It could mean a slip if you completely drop it right. And I would like to stress again that, in exceptional cases, there will be an opportunity to provide a reply to those who wish to be informed of the names of files and thus to seek access to documents. For example: If there have been examples of threats and such elements, one could say that in the particular case the name behind the initials cannot be given. So I think that we are going in the right direction, but this tool cannot be the only tool that the debate has shown, and if you push this button down completely, you have to remove something else, namely patients' rights, and that is also a principle. After all, we are talking about psychiatry, but there were also rapporteurs who mentioned that there is a desire to continue the debate on the somatics, in other words on the whole of health care. I would say that my position is exactly the same there. I do not think there is any reason to make any distinction at all. That is exactly the same view I have here. The fact that there is trust between the patient and healthcare professionals is an absolutely crucial foundation for confidence in our health services, and thus also that unless, of course, you are at risk and there are threats, etc., you will be able to get information about who it is that you are facing, what it is for a person who prints, places in, treats, diagnoses, etc. quite standardly. After all, these are the two principles that face each other, and I think it is important that we maintain the debate and also keep an eye on how things are going when we introduce these new opportunities this summer. But I also believe that the debate is very clear that there is a great deal of attention on the part of the Danish Parliament to the fact that both principles must also be there in the future, and not just one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115111929	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115111933	Thank you. Yes, there are two considerations. It doesn't help the murdered person or the person who has to leave his job or when we don't have enough staff to help the psychiatric patients. And I am surprised that there are several rapporteurs who get all sorts of other committees involved in this. Job centres and social centres are not our committee, and the minister is not a minister of those things. You think this is a small thing, and you ask why there's no more. Well, this is about the journaling notice that's in the hearing. Do you only have to deal with matters that embrace far and wide, and with many things in them? We had exactly the same discussion the other day. This is about some employees shouting because you have not listened to the working group that has been asking: why can't you do this? You can still find the doctor, the nurse, the social and health assistant, the ergotherapist, or whatever it is written. This happens many times before you know it and before you can react. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112039	Yes, but that is where we have such a fundamental disagreement. After all, we fully agree on the objective, namely to do more to secure our employees from threats, from harassment and from serious violence, and also from attempted murders, which are sometimes unfortunately successful, which is so tragic. We agree with that aim. But we simply disagree that we have to introduce psychiatry now, but it was also said by the rapporteur that it would also be introduced in general terms into the health service. In fact, as a patient in Denmark, as a rule, you cannot be told what the doctor's name is, what the nurse's name is, who has admitted someone, who has taken care of your situation. In any case, it will be a significantly different health service that we will then have, and I do not think we should have it; I think that will involve everything, too many breaches of trust and essential principles of patient rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112143	Mrs. Liselot Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112145	No one is saying that you cannot know the name if it is that you want to run a case. If someone says that Pia 31 is completely wrong and that you want to have a conversation because it is wrong what is written in the file, you get a conversation, but then the person also knows that you have actually been there and have been given the full name etc. So it takes something more for you to be sought out. I do not know whether the Minister himself has tried to find someone knocking on the door who is going to do something bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112217	But then we have a situation here because I fully agree that it would probably be possible to have a system where you have a code or some initials etc. can identify a person and ultimately run a case. But is that really where we're going? Is this really the kind of health care we need, where you can only, if you want to run a case, know who was treating you; who was it that printed you; who was it that diagnosed you? Is that the only place you can find out? It will be a huge slip, and it will be an attack on essential patients' rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112250	Then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112257	Thank you. I think it was a little unclear in the Minister's reply whether the Minister is willing to call for broad political negotiations on how to proceed in this matter. Despite the fact that there are corona and other things, it is quite correct, as Mrs Liselott Blixt says, that the work that has been done with the journaling notice is, in fact, in its final phase after consultation and other matters. But there are also, as I tried to say in my speech, some issues about this, which go much further than just registering, because it is, of course, about the general log system. And that will require some negotiation, because changing it in one system, which does not have consequences in other systems, makes no sense if it is about ensuring the safety of the employee. So will the Minister call for negotiations, as we have requested in the motion for a resolution that we have tabled on the part of four of the blue parties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112347	I heard what was said by the rapporteurs and that it is also in the proposal for adoption that has been put forward, but it is not my intention to call for negotiations to amend the Health Act in this context. As regards the work in relation to the logging notice, it is after all the Danish Parliament's Ombudsman who stated in his letter of 19 April 2018 that patients' access to electronically inspecting log information in their medical records must, in his view, be classified as a significant patient right. This has been corrected under the previous minister, and that is what is happening now, and it has been in consultation. However, what I would like to say from this point of view is that we have now received a hearing answer, and then I think it would be appropriate also because the answers to the hearings do not quite agree that the Ministry invites us to discussions with the consultation parties in order to get more detailed into this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112443	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112446	To that I can just say that I think that is really a pity, and I hope the Minister will reconsider that. Because this isn't a simple issue or one that has arisen someday. And it is quite true, as the Minister says, that the Ombudsman has previously looked at the fact that a number of the regions did not even comply with the law in relation to securing the logging system, which is precisely part of the opportunity in patients' rights to be able to monitor who is treating them. That is why I can only call on the Minister to and I wonder why the Minister will not call for negotiations that we will have this area looked through together and that we will find the right balance between the safety of employees and patients' rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112523	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112527	Yeah, and it's too bad I can't live up to those hopes. Now we have had a debate here in Parliament with this question debate. I think that this very, very clearly shows that there are dilemmas and that there is progress in the things that are now being introduced this summer, but also that we cannot resolve those dilemmas. We need to recognise that they are there and that we need to take up our position in relation to the two considerations that are to be maintained against each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112601	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will, as I said, be postponed until later.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112632	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115112638	Thank you for that, President. The Corona and the pandemic we have been in for almost a year have made extremely great demands on all of us. In the field of children's and education, there has been an unparalleled performance. Out in institutions and schools around all the municipalities in the country, the bus has really come together, so you haven't physically pulled up on the bus, because you can't be close to each other and take an extremely heavy responsibility for making everything slip in the best way possible. I think we agree from in here that we owe a great and sincere thank you for that. It's very impressive work. This situation is the background to the legislative proposal we are discussing today, and indeed, indeed, to the emergency law that has been in force since March. We've needed flexibility. We need a change in exams or tests, deviations in the care guarantee, derogations, emergency training and much, much more. It has been in force for almost a year, and it has given us a better opportunity to look after each other and bring us through the pandemic in the best possible way. We have taken all the important decisions in this area in a broad majority of the Folketing, and the Social Democrats naturally want to see that cooperation continue. Now the emergency law is due to expire here until 1 March, but the corona is still here, and therefore we need to extend it not so much the content, but the validity, because we still need it. The draft bill states that it should be extended until mid-November of this year, but by its very nature we do not want it to be a day longer than is needed and, fortunately, the reality has evolved since it was tabled. The health authorities hope and believe that all Danes will have been offered a vaccine before we reach the summer break. That is good news, and it has come out since the draft law was sent to the hearing and was tabled, and I think we should take stock of that. That is why we are actually going to propose that we make an amendment so that the law expires at the end of the school year and is only extended if, contrary to expectations, we are still in a situation where we need an emergency law. In addition, it is important for us that the Folketing be involved in the main decisions, which have also become part of the general epidemic law. The common understanding reached in the field of epidemics and in the general epidemic law, we would like to reflect in this law, and it has come since it was put forward. So, from our point of view, it is obvious that we are making an amendment in committee so that we ensure that the larger decisions are anchored in a broad majority. That has also been what we have been doing over the last year, but it is a good idea to write it in, since that is actually how we work. I hope that the committee procedure will ensure a broad majority behind the law, which is necessary as long as we have to combat the epidemic, but which, of course, should not apply one day longer than we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115113004	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are grateful to Mr Seligman. Jens Joel and goes for a despriting on to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115113034	Thank you for the floor. Corona has in many ways been both the explanatory statement and the excuse and the explanation for almost everything in the last little year's time, and unfortunately it seems to be continuing for some time yet. In exactly 2 months and 2 days, it will be 1 year since we first dealt with the draft law called L 140 and the emergency law that we are facing today to extend. Just as at that time, we are now in the midst of a decommissioning process which, in turn, has far-reaching consequences, not least for children and young people who do not see their comrades, who do not see their teachers face-to-face, who are sitting in front of a screen and who experience that they lose both professionally and socially on the decommissionings that are still part of everyday life. Unfortunately, the insecurity and the concerns that were there still exist, because the virus will be here for a long time to come. We can hope that with the vaccines we can make it disappear, but there is no doubt that we still have to deal with the covid-19 situation for a few months to come. The vaccines are spreading rapidly in our society. We are up to just over 2%, which has been vaccinated, and hopefully with the plans to roll out the vaccines, we will be in the situation that when we hit the summer break, all the Danes who want to be vaccinated will also have been offered a vaccine. This also means that we see no reason from the Left for the bill we are debating today, L 114, on the extension of this special law, the decommissioning law, to be extended for a moment longer than is necessary, and we see no reason at all for it to be extended until 16 November, as the government has proposed in its legislative proposal. We have had a dialogue with the government about exactly this, and I can also hear from the Socialist rapporteur that the Socialists are now going to speak on behalf of the government and are willing to look at changing that date. I am pleased to hear that, and I am glad to hear that the dialogue we have had has had some effect. But I also think it is important that we should be clearly and clearly told in this Chamber today that we should not do it every day, that we should adopt emergency laws and special laws, because we so much need to get back what is normal, not least for all the children and young people who are at home behind the screen today, who miss their comrades and who miss being part of a professional community. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal that is basically about being able to shut down day care institutions, schools, post-schools, upper secondary education, special offers in order to encapsulate the infection. This has been necessary for a period of time. We know that; we recognize that from the Left too. However, we do not recognise the need to extend it until November. We see the end of this school year, i.e. when we hit the summer break, as the very longest time we see it possible to extend this legislation to. Then it is clear, as we have seen all the way through, that this virus can suddenly behave differently from what we thought, and then we are prepared for the Minister to call us for negotiations and we can come back to the Chamber if necessary. But I also think it is important that we use the treatment of the special law to also focus on the problems that very many children and young people are experiencing: that they have simply got a huge learning staff and that they really do not need us to make special legislation that makes them sit at home even longer. They need us to come up with a long-term plan on how to close the professional gaps that have arisen and how to ensure that we address the many well-being problems that very many young people are struggling with, and on those who were very marginalised and socially exposed in advance, and who have become even more so during the decommissioning and the coronapandemic that we are still standing in. This also means that we need to engage in close dialogue both with the Danish Teachers' Association, the school teachers, the parents and all the other actors who have come forward with their ideas on how to secure a long-term plan to also patch up the professional gaps that many young people have with them. We must not be in a situation where we suddenly start talking about the corona generation, which in 2020 and 2021, like professionally, lost so much that they will not catch up afterwards. We need the professional plan, with everything from turbo courses to offers to the individual learner, but also with greater freedom and flexibility in the organisation of the form, which enables the individual teacher to find out with the parents and with the students where it is that there are special professional gaps to be filled out; that we do not both require that you drive on a full schedule of distance learning, that you have emergency training for the few and that you also take care of the professional gaps that exist. We need to get realism into the long-term plan that needs to be put in place, and we also need to allocate the necessary resources in order to increase the professional and social impact of the children and young people for whom decommissioning has had a major impact. As I said, the Left cannot support the bill as it stands, but we will be able to support it if changes take place, so that the government's ability to act alone is reduced and so that we move the date to apply at the end of this school year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115113607	Thank you. There are no comments, so when there is a spriting, we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115113629	Thank you, President. After all, we are all aware that this is an extremely unfortunate situation for all Danes, all Europeans and all the people affected by the corona. In our field of education, this is a particularly unfortunate situation for the many pupils who are now forced to sit behind the screen instead of being with their peers at school. They experience loneliness, and of course they also experience problems in getting teaching through the screen. It is difficult for teachers and it is difficult for schools to deal with it. We also know that it is difficult for the many families at home where parents suddenly experience that they are about to teach or support their children. There are some who are well placed to do so, while there are others who, for various reasons, absolutely do not. It can also be work-related things that make it extremely difficult. There are families where you have to work from home, while at the same time caring for children. It's a difficult situation. We all know. Fortunately, the bill envisages continuing to take into account special school pupils and others at risk who find it very difficult to get teaching through the screen. There, of course, we have all been aware of and agree that we need to take special account of those children so that they can continue to attend school. We are glad that this is also part of this bill. I am not going to hide the fact that I had hoped for another situation, as we all had. It's an emergency law we're about to take a stand on again. I was hoping we wouldn't be prolonging it. Nor should I conceal the fact that I had to confer with my wise colleagues who at the time supported the bill. We do not really see any other option than to extend the emergency law, even if the extension is to take place until November. This is a long extension, which is why I am actually pleased with the Social Democrats' amendments, which I understand have come up with because of the request from the Left. Such secret interparliamentary work between the two old parties is wonderful. We would like to be a part of that, but it is fine that this is also happening in this Chamber. We agree with the point made in the amendment that we allow the emergency law to continue until the beginning of the school year and then decide on it. Actually, I think it's a good decision. Finally, emergency laws are, of course, emergency laws because of an emergency situation. And I hope that we will not extend this law further because, as Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby explained so well in her speech, there is a massive loss of knowledge among school pupils. That's almost the worst. It is not just a school reform that has been difficult to implement; now they have also experienced the corona epidemic. It just makes it possible that we are about to lose a number of students who have simply had it too difficult at school. I don't know how we can handle it, but at some point we're gonna have to take it up and talk about it. I do not know whether we will eventually have to introduce a little extra education for special pupils. However, there is no doubt that this is a huge loss for many students because they find it difficult to get teaching through the screen. There are others who bloom and love it. But there are different people. Overall, the Danish People's Party supports the Emergency Act. We will also support the amendment and look forward to the debate, which seems to be a matter of form, but we can have a talk about it. Otherwise, I'm hoping we'll get the corona together soon. Those were my words... and I'm gonna have to remember to booze off.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115114101	Thank you. And there are no comments here either, so we are just waiting for the next rapporteur, Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115114127	I actually see that we are in a situation now that any rapporteur for any party will say the same thing as the previous one. After all, we all share the view of the accident that it has been for us to have the corona, not least for our children and young people who have really carried a great deal on their little shoulders. That is why there is a great deal of agreement on the part of the Radical Left to extend this emergency law, which we are working on at the moment, but also to make the extension shorter than is actually provided for in the proposal we are debating today. We also agree with this, and it is up to the summer holidays, I assume, and then we really hope that in the six months ahead there will be major changes, including vaccines and what this means for society as a whole. So maybe we can see light ahead. The next major challenge will then be: how will we resolve the shortcomings in their education, that is, what they have had to learn in primary and secondary education? But we can spend time on that in our committee or in the circle of politicians that we are and that share the reforms that have carried the educational establishments until the corona happened. So we completely accept the extension here and we accept and appreciate that it can be reduced, as the Social Democrat rapporteur announced on behalf of the government. We are behind it and hope that things are going well, also for Denmark. And then I hope that we have learned something along the way that will help us in the future when we need to get things back on track. So with the good cooperation in mind: yes, on the part of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115114323	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115114345	Thank you. SF's child and youth rapporteur, Mr. Jacob Mark couldn't be here today, so you'll have to settle for me. In the SF, we agree that an emergency law is still needed. We are because we are still in a very serious situation with many infected and with the British mutation and with persistent pressure on our health services. The Emergency Act has been necessary and it is still gone in order to contain the infection while dealing with the continuing situation of emergency education, changes in the organisation of tests and exams, admission to youth education, continued support for children and young people with special needs, etc. This has required a high degree of flexibility in order to make everyday life work on all the institutions. The employees have worked hard and changed, found new ways and been creative. In the SF we are deeply impressed with the way in which everyday life has been made to work for the benefit of our children and young people, although of course this is not a desirable situation we are in. It is absolutely essential that employees do not make everyday life work, despite that, the Emergency Act is necessary. However, we do not immediately believe that there is any reason why the emergency law should not expire until November, when the government's announcement is that we have finished vaccination in June. We fear this creates uncertainty on the part of the institutions. This is also apparent from the consultations. And as soon as everyday life can get back to normal, it has to be. And that's why I'm glad that Mr. Jens Joel says that we can look at another solution and that an amendment will be tabled on it. With the law, the Minister has been given far-reaching powers, which is why it has been important and good to have a high degree of involvement of party rapporteurs in this area once the law has been applied and particularly important to involve and close dialogue with all the experts; in practice it is doctors, educational staff, managers, parents and pupils themselves in sectoral partnerships. It is, of course, SF's clear expectation that the Minister will continue the high degree of involvement and close dialogue. Later today the follow-up group will discuss exams and professional delays. Here it is important that there is a broad majority behind the decisions so that our young people do not become nervous or uncertain as to whether everything will work out, and there are many young people who are nervous right now, just as many employees need to know that there is a broad majority behind them. Back in March, we told the schools that had just begun emergency education that we did not, of course, have the same requirements and expectations for teaching, and we thanked them for the great and important work they are doing. We need to stress this even more now that emergency education has been extended by three weeks. In primary school, teachers, pupils and parents are both more stressed by trying to run a full school schedule with a full curriculum. The level of ambition must be reduced so that everyone gets more calm and we take care of each other. Everything's gonna be okay, even if you don't teach all the curriculum. Children who, after decommissioning, need extra training to make up for a professional backlog need that help. Long periods of decommissioning hit socially wrong, but right now, the focus should be on ensuring that everyone gets through the decommissioning process in the best possible way. In addition, it is important that we continue to monitor and ensure that children and young people thrive as well as possible with the uncertainty and different everyday life that corona has brought about. Children and young people who feel ill about being at home should be offered even more physical education at school, just as children and young people who have mental challenges need help as soon as possible. With that said, I can say that the SF supports the draft law and is also in favour of the amendment that has been announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115114732	Thank you. There are no comments here either, so we just need to get a little splashed off. Here you go, sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115114749	Thank you. When we adopted the law that we are now facing to amend on 19 March, hardly many of us had imagined that ten months later we would have a teaching sector that was not shut down, because work was being done, but where all teaching took place virtually. We had hardly imagined that there was such enormous pressure on our day offer as we are experiencing right now. I think that it was probably beginning to dawn on us there on 19 March when we adopted the law that this was a serious situation, but it is something that surprises us all, to say the least, that we are in a situation where we must now have shut down again. That's the reality. I think, as other rapporteurs have said, that we should appreciate this a little more, because the current situation places enormous demands on teachers who have to carry out all the teaching digitally, on pupils who have to adapt to a different educational situation, on those in the day-care institutions who are concerned about their health and who think that it is very burdensome to have to work under the present conditions, and especially on those parents who, of course, also have to adapt to the conditions that are now changing in the day-care institutions and who, of course, are also concerned about whether there is now a need to close down completely with all the consequences that could have. So we owe a lot of thanks to everyone who has adapted in this area. Since March, we have had to adapt the rules continually as the epidemic developed. I would like to say here that I think we have done this in a sensible way in the cooperation that has been between the rapporteurs and the Minister. It is surely no secret from the state that we have not been entirely in agreement between the rapporteurs and some of the rapporteurs with the Minister. It is natural, even with the different starting points that we have for the areas. However, I think that this has been a very fruitful way of dealing with it and I am pleased that we have so far managed to find common solutions. Sometimes you have to experience that attitudes are broken, but in this situation, as several others have said, there is a great need for security out there and an experience that the entire people's government is trying to deal with it and get us through the crisis here. As Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen said, we might have thought that on 26 November we could live with it if we thought it was necessary, so that we would not have to argue too much about it. But, on the other hand, it is also right to say that we should not have shut down our educational institutions any longer than is necessary, and can we signal that hopefully we are moving towards normal times, and that from here we believe we are moving towards normal times, now that the vaccines are being vaccinated, and when the vaccines are being rolled out, I think it can also help to create so much calm and security that can now be created in the current situation. I think it is a good thing that the Socialist rapporteur is now signalling that we can adjust this so that we have legislation that runs until we reach the summer break. We also need to find some way to guard ourselves, because what we have talked about between men and women is: what now and we did it in the spring • if we get into that situation and everything must forbid that we still have to adjust on some things? So it's true that we can meet in July. We can't go that far, you can say, and then we have to do it. But I also think it would be sensible for us to have an opportunity and for us to give the Minister an opportunity to act as well. With the way we have handled it so far, and as I said, I think it has been excellent in the forum that has been in the follow-up group, i.e. the cooperation between the rapporteurs, I think that the Minister will continue to cooperate in this way, so that not only are announcements and temporary regulations acted unilaterally, but we will have a joint dialogue on it. So the amendment is fine. We can support it and look forward to it being adjusted together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115115310	Thank you. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115115348	Thank you for that, President. I'm here as a substitute for Mai Mercado, who is unfortunately prevented, so you'll have to settle for me. The situation around the coronapandemic is deeply serious, both in Denmark and in the rest of the world. Everywhere in Europe, borders are being shut down, thousands of employees are being sent home, including in Denmark during the second wave. Of course, we hope that the decommissioning that we are experiencing at the moment, with its severe restrictions, will have the effect of bringing down the infection rate and that we will be able to lift the restrictions to a large extent again in February. At least that's my hope. Of course, we must do what we can to ensure that children's learning is guaranteed as much as possible, just as it is important that day institutions remain open as long as the authorities consider this to be justified. As a result of the temporary closure of daily offers and schools, the Government has put forward this bill, which gives the Minister a wide range of powers to derogate from the rules in the field of day-to-day and education and to take interim measures. We understand that as a starting point. But let's be honest: the understanding here in the second wave is less than in the first wave. We take responsibility for ourselves as a party. We've done that all the way through this pandemic. But it is also important to make it clear that these are very far-reaching powers for the Minister with this emergency law and this bill. In Mai Mercado's speech in the spring of the same bill, she said that it should never be taken lightly, and I should like to say that it still applies away. Of course, we have also wondered about the very low level of ambition in bringing down the infection figures to 16 November, but we are confident that there will be good tactics in this Chamber, in relation to the fact that the emergency law will have to be shut down again for the summer holidays at the latest. So in the Conservative People's Party we support the bill, but with the reservation that we would like it to be repealed again before the summer holiday. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115115620	Thank you. And the next one is Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115115641	There is no health evidence of slowing down the coronasmite by leaving schools closed. That is why the clear position of the New Citizen is that the children should go back to school. In Finland, where primary schools have been closed, and in Sweden, where schools have been open throughout the epidemic, there is no difference in the incidence of confirmed covid-19 cases in children from 1 year to 19 years of age. That is what was said in November by the Head of Department of the State's Serum Institute Tyra Grove Krause. Nevertheless, schools have now been closed and students have been homeschooled since December. For the time being, the extended restrictions will apply until 7 February. Understandably, it challenges a great many Danish families who do not know what the weeks after 7 February look like to continue juggling with both homework and teaching. And that, of course, also challenges the children. Schools don't run the epidemic. This was the opinion of the pediatrician and chairman of the Danish Paediatric Society Klaus Birkelund Johansen, who has also made it clear that the children are not infected in the institutions or schools, but by the parents at home. So there is no health evidence to keep the country's schools closed to stop the infection. On the contrary, says researcher Christian Kanstrup Holm, there is evidence that it is no use to shut schools down. The same message comes from Professor Søren Riis Paludan. When you see the cost in relation to the gains, you just have to say that there is no evidence at all to close schools and day care centres, he says. Yet the government has sent all the children home. The cost of continuing to shut down schools is far too great, both for parents, for society and for children. That is why our clear message to the government is: let the children go back to school now. If that happens, only the Prime Minister can answer. Will it be based on medical evidence or on a social democratic gut feeling? No matter when this happens, a very large cleanup work awaits after two major decommissionings with repatriations and online training. Several professionals yell at the gun and say that after this time the students will lack some professional and social skills. And the fact that distance learning has made students less motivated is worrying. I very much hope that the Prime Minister will listen to the many people who have professional knowledge in this area. No one, neither children, parents, nor society, is served by closed schools. That is our clear position in the New Citizens' Party, which is why we cannot, of course, support the extension of this emergency law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115115945	Thank you. I do not see the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, so it must be the turn of the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115120022	Thank you. I believe, in fact, that the treatment of L 140 and, incidentally, of what preceded it, of sitting and answering very many of the very good questions that were put during the debate, will be the legal treatment that I will most recently forget. It was enormously violent last year when we had to have legislation in place very quickly, and one of the things that was invented in that process by Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby was the idea of having a political follow-up group. We addressed this in L 140, and the political follow-up group was, and continues to be, the foundation of the way we work parliamentaryly on the Corona situation. So I would like to thank you very much for that. I believe that we would have had a different course in the field of children and education if it had not been for that one different way of thinking from the very beginning, because it meant that all the parties in the parliament would have to sit together around all the decisions we have had to make during this period. So it was simply a good idea, and in a situation where every day we had to make a lot of new decisions in a whole new landscape, and where we did not have the usual parliamentary principles, it was simply crucial for us that we actually got in place so early in the process that this is how we approach it parliamentaryally. This also means that it is a thank you to all the colleagues in this House that the political follow-up group has taken part in almost all the decisions that have been taken. That is not what the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, because we have agreed on everything; it is something quite different, but we have let opinions be broken and we have had different views on it with the different starting points we have. But we have been united in this, and that means that the different perspectives, which also reflect the different perspectives that exist in the population, have been at the table, and we have looked at them, and we have discussed them with each other, and decisions have been taken on the vast majority of things where all the parties of the Folketing have been involved. Sometimes there's been a single or two who haven't been there. I actually think we can be quite proud of that together. At the same time, we have had what we call the sectoral partnership, which I actually started as a kind of mini-consultation, because I simply could not find out what was actually being done when we put the consultation period out of effect in the context of the examination of L 140, which was the predecessor of the legislative proposal we are debating today. The mini-consultations developed into what is now called the sectoral partnership, which means that this is where teachers and parents and pupils and school leaders and municipalities etc. I'm sitting with you. There we have had quite unlikely many meetings. We have the same thing in the political follow-up group. This has therefore meant that, although we have not been able to run the ordinary legislative processes in periods due to decommissioning and high speed, we have nevertheless been able to do what we are best at in Denmark, namely to consult all parties and get all the different perspectives on the table and to make agreements on everything we can at all agree on, so that we bow to each other and take into account the different interests that may be. I am incredibly pleased with the way in which we have been able to approach it together, and I would say that I have been on American television and said that one of the main reasons why the school reopens in Denmark went so well in the spring was that we had such strong unions. As a Social Democrat, it is an independent pleasure to stand and say it on American television, I would like to say. But I actually mean it, because it means that we have had some organisations with us, and that is, of course, whether we are talking about the parental area or we are talking about it, that the municipalities have organized themselves in the National Association of Municipalities, or we are talking about what is strictly trade unions, namely the Danish Teachers' Association, BUPL and FOA etc. And the fact that we have such an association tradition in Denmark means that when there is a crisis that hits, there are forums where you can discuss different things based on the different interests you have, and it has made it so much easier than in countries where you do not have the same foundation to stand on. Yes, now we are dealing with the successor to it, and I would say with regard to the dates, that, as you will see from the first that we sent in consultation, it has such a slightly distorted date there in November, and it is because it was the first time that a general legislative process could be made possible to third-read a bill if we were standing after the summer recess and were still in a corona situation. That is why it is not called 1 January, but that it has such a crooked date in the middle of November, because all the usual procedures would allow a legislative process to be carried out. That is, of course, because what I have been worried about and that is why the dates were in this way that we would be standing in August and have no rules that enabled us to take the reservations that needed to either protect the staff or children or some others in relation to outbreaks of infection that had come there with a fingertips. And that's because things have been hugely unpredictable. I would say with regard to the change that I know has been discussed about it with dates, now that we know something about vaccines and everything else, that we have no wish that this should last as much as 10 seconds longer than that dictated by the corona. That is why I think it is quite right to have the amendments that have been discussed between a few of the parties also with the rubber band that lies in it, so that we do not lose that August heat, which means quite a lot in the school area, because so many people start in August. It sounds like it's been handled, and of course it's really good. Then I just want to say very clearly in relation to what the SF said about full schedule and all subjects, that doing distance learning for primary school teachers now we are just taking a straight starting point in primary school for a moment • is a task for which the teachers are not trained. Therefore, you just have to bend into the dust for the creativity, the professionalism, the enthusiasm, and the muscles you've used to make this run. You really have to bend into the dust. This means that we must also recognise that it is a huge task in relation to what it would be to carry out the normal teaching that we are used to. I've been asked a few times, but do we have to ride with a full schedule? No, you don't. Full courses, full schedules and annual standards are something that belongs in the ordinary primary school. It doesn't belong in emergency education. You have to do the best you can. That's what it says. You have to live up to the primary school law as best you can. What's so good that you can cover up the fact that the teaching staff should be able to survive a long winter of emergency training. That is why we must, of course, deal with the task facing us. For example: There is also the task of taking good care of the children who are currently miserable. There are a lot of children who are miserable, and there is a need for teachers to be much closer because they don't meet face to face with the children, so they get some one on one or sit and talk to three or four students over a long time in some roll in the classes. You can't do that if you have to run a full schedule and if you have to drive a full course and you have to live up to the annual standard. That means that right now you have to live up to the primary school law as well as you can. That is where the level of ambition must be set. We should not begin to relax, but we should also bear in mind that we have only the teaching resources we have and they must be able to last for a long winter. It's just to say that we must of course give the kids all the best they can possibly get out of this. It would have been awful, and it would have been even worse if there wasn't the virtual teaching that is • but we shouldn't be stretching the bow too hard either. So I would say in relation to school holes at all: we will come back to that. It is incredibly nice to deal with the corona now in comparison with the spring, because we have had much better time to prepare for it. This means that we are in a completely different place, both in relation to the exams, but also in relation to the professional gaps. Some will then ask: why has not a decision been taken, and why has a complete plan not been put forward now? It is simply for the simple reason that that plan would be quite different depending on whether it has been closed down for 2 weeks or whether it has been closed down for 6 or 8 weeks or how long it will end up shut down. This means that what we have prepared is simply the toolbox and we have said: these are the tools that could be relevant when we talk about school holes. But how to turn the specific package together must, by its very nature, be linked to how short or how long it has been shut down. We shall begin discussions on this this this afternoon, when I look forward very much to having such a first preliminary discussion with all the parties of the Folketing. Over the last few months, I have been talking to student organisations, teachers' associations and management associations about the issue of school holes and exams and also everything else, but especially about school holes and exams, also in order to assess the situation on an ongoing basis. Thank you very much for your commitment to support this replacement of L 140 with what is now L 114. I still think it's L 140, I'll always remember, but it's also been a good treatment today. So thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115120954	Thank you. There is one point from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115120958	Thank you. Thank you, too, for the dialogue we have had in order to ensure that we do not get a signal to the sector that we are actually making a special law that lasts until mid-November when we need to send out hope that the next school year will be as normal and as boring and predictable as we can possibly want, on top of this year of the coronapandemic. So that amendment in concrete form I look forward to receiving in the Folketing. Something else I would like to say is thanks for the recognition of the Minister in relation to the work we have had in the Covid-19 follow-up group. I would also like to sign the other way because I think it has worked far more appropriately in this area than I know it has done in other areas. Therefore, there is a need to signal that we also have some desire for this bill to be adjusted in relation to what we have also agreed on in connection with the new epidemic law to actually introduce negative parliamentarism in the sense that it should no longer just be the case that the minister can in principle overrule us all, but that the minister has to respect that if there is a majority in the Folketing who thinks otherwise, then the government cannot go that way. And, of course, we want that to be enshrined in the legislative proposal that we are discussing today, and I hope that we will get it in before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115121116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115121118	We are already preparing amendments to this, because it was just included in the epidemic law, which was after we had sent the bill for consultation. I think it is quite obvious, because it follows on from how we have worked in this area anyway. And, as the Socialist rapporteur also said in his rapporteur's speech, we can just as well write that down on a piece of paper, because it actually has a meaning whether things are there or not. I believe that the form of cooperation we have had in this area, and there I fully agree with the rapporteur, has worked very well, and it might as well be incorporated into the amendments. So we will certainly do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115121156	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115121158	Well, thank you. Yes, there is a parallel to the negotiations we have had on the epidemic law, and therefore also our wish that this bill reflect the broad political agreement we made about the epidemic law. Another part that several rapporteurs have also highlighted • myself including • is the learning staff we can see a large number of students have. And I know that we will start negotiations later today, but I also hope that the Minister in the Parliamentary Chamber will indicate that the government is also aware that it is not resolved without resources and that the government is also willing to include these negotiations in an economy so that teachers, school leaders, all the actors out there can also carry out the task of ensuring that each child and every young person will not pay the cost of decommissioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115121242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115121244	I have already indicated this in public. It is clear that when you have what we have now, we will of course also have to look at resources. And it can be said that precisely because of the question of resources it also has a close connection with how much time has actually been shut down, and that is to say the proportions in the packages. If you listened to the chairman of the School Leader's Association yesterday, he said that he believes in himself that where we were yesterday we could fill the professional gaps, but that every week that goes from now on it will be harder and harder. So that's why it's related to how long it's been shut down. Of course, we need to look at resources, and I also believe that some of the commandments that the rapporteur of the Left made up here from the platform in relation to going in to look at the professional ties can be loosened, so that there is a little more rubber band and how much one should teach the individual subjects, so that one can concentrate the forces where the students have some school holes? Another example might be to look at the supporting instruction, i.e. whether it could be used more offensively in connection with coronate. So I think that we simply also have some rather large structural elasticities in this area in advance, which we must also have looked at, just as I think we should have looked at the length of reading holidays when we discuss exams. And these are exactly the things we have spent time preparing from the government over the last six months. Then we'll have to see what volume on all this is, compared to the fact that we don't yet know how long the shutdown overall is going to last. But there is good reason why we are already going in and getting identified... we have already done that in the Ministry... what kind of tools are there and start talking to each other about where each other's preferences lie.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115121424	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115121442	The debate is open. Sir. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115121502	Thank you for the floor. I am here on behalf of my fellow tax rapporteur Troels Ravn. The bill we are discussing today has been brought about by a series of early warning from the Danish Tax Office, which has drawn attention to areas with the risk of accidental use of legislation. It is a priority for the Social Democratic Party that this risk is met by a rapid response, so that we ensure a robust tax base and prevent an intentional tax payment from being avoided. The draft law therefore provides for the introduction of dividend tax on payments received by a parent company established abroad from a Danish account-leading investment fund, where the payment is in fact a distribution of taxable dividends. In addition, the draft law envisages introducing a dividend tax for investors resident in non-EU countries or EEA cooperation with which Denmark does not have a double taxation agreement if the Danish holding company with underlying Danish subsidiaries is converted into investment companies. It is also proposed to introduce tax liability on certain interest payments and exchange gains for Danish investment companies in situations where a foreign company has granted loans to a Danish subsidiary via a Danish investment company. A rapid response has been important also in order to avoid speculation in the rules and attempts to circumvent the legislation in force, as described in the draft law. It is therefore proposed that the law should enter into force on 1 April, but that the law should take effect on the date of its submission. Social democracy wants to restore and strengthen both the tax administration and citizens' confidence in the tax administration. Citizens' confidence in the tax system, as well as our progressive tax system, is about everyone paying the tax they should pay no more and no less. History has taught us that it is important to respond early and proactively to warnings and suspicions of unintended use of tax legislation. I must therefore inform you that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115121708	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115121730	Thank you, Mr President. This is, after all, a proposal to close tax gaps, and the Left is in general favour of this. We are also very pleased with the way in which we try to do it, i.e. early warning, and the way in which we see it, because in this way we avoid bothering as much as possible. But those who are bothered are, I hope, those who are trying to exploit tax holes, and we are in favour of that in the Left. I am saying this because there should be no doubt that the Left supports this, even if it is contrary to the tax freeze, and I say it because that is not exactly why we have the tax freeze. But early warning is, of course, a method by which we want to shut down the abuse of our system. We are pleased about this, and I shall not repeat what it contains in concrete terms, because the Social Democrat rapporteur did quite well, but only notes that the Left is in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115121851	Thank you. No one has asked for the floor, so we shall now proceed to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's request. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115121917	The bill follows up on a number of early warning or early Danish warnings given by the Danish Tax Office to the Treasury, which are some warnings that there is some legislation here that can be used, i.e. what is typically called tax holes in here. And it is actually quite positive that you get it before they are exploited, so I hope that the tax minister will pass the rose on to the Tax Administration that they will actually catch such cases before it can turn into a huge scandal and money that is fucked out of the Treasury. So it's quite positive. In this case, this is about account-leading investment funds and investment companies, and I, like the rapporteur from the Left, will avoid going into the details with it, but will actually say a few general comments, and that is that we in the Danish People's Party almost always support if there is a closure of tax holes. One may disagree on whether the tax should be high or low, but people must of course follow the rules that exist. So when there's tax holes or early warning about it like this, it's of course quite natural that we get the support that you get it shut down. So the Danish People's Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122024	Thank you. There are no comments here either. Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122040	Thank you, President. The tax administration, in the form of two early warnings, has drawn attention to some areas where the rules on taxation of investment through investment companies can be inadvertently exploited to obtain tax advantages, i.e. tax gaps. The draft law follows up the objections raised by the tax administration, thus proposing to change the rules on the tax consequences of changing the status of an investment firm and to change the rules on the types of income covered by the tax liability of investment firms. Then there is also part of the bill which deals with payments from an account-leading investment fund, and this should primarily prevent income from a Danish company from being transferred to a parent company resident in a non-EU or EEA State with which Denmark has no double taxation agreement and without Danish dividend tax. When the tax administration sends out these warnings about potential gaps in the tax system, which can be exploited for a little too creative speculation, it is good to know its visiting time as a politician, and fortunately the Minister is doing the same here too. In the consultation answers it does not appear that the proposal creates major tectonic shocks in Danish industry, so the Radical Left is of course in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122159	Thank you. There are no comments here either. Sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122217	Thank you. The purpose of the bill is to close unintended tax gaps that can be exploited for tax fraud or avoidance. In SF we have long had a great deal of focus on combating tax avoidance both within and outside Denmark. Several years of efficiency and cuts in the tax administration have resulted in mistakes and failures that have had major economic consequences for the community. Then it is also a question of tightening up a number of rules which, unfortunately, can be used, for example. where there are transactions and distributions of dividends across borders. The bill is one of many steps on the way to resolving the latter problem. Under the current rules it is possible for foreign companies outside the EU to circumvent source tax on Danish equity dividends by converting Danish holding companies into investment companies. The various amendments to the bill are therefore, in our view, an important step on the road to minimising the risk of tax fraud without having a detrimental effect on business, including Danish companies, which also establish subsidiaries abroad. That is why we can warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122317	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122341	We from Enhedslisten are very happy with the early warnings that the Tax Authority's skilled employees send to the Ministry, so that the political system is made aware of tax gaps and potential problems in tax legislation. This time the Danish Tax Office has pointed to a number of loopholes in the legislation on investment funds. It is basically about making aggressive tax speculation, among other things. by making loans and by making ingenious company structures and thereby score a tax gain, and it is of course a hole that we must close. It is very positive that the Danish Tax Office is up to speed, and even though there is not considered to be revenue by closing the gap, there may well be a future danger that this might turn into a new tax scandal. That is why it is good to close the gaps that have been identified now. The Enhedslisten can, of course, warmly support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122432	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122449	We can also support the bill and, like the other rapporteurs, I do not want to pretend that I have 100%. all mechanisms for investment funds and tax payments, but I note that there seems to be a fairly broad support, including in the consultation answers, for closing the tax gap. So we regard it as a real tax gap that must be closed, and we are, of course, like all other parties in favour of it being done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122517	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122537	Thank you. New citizens can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122540	Thank you. And then it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122551	The Liberal Alliance will vote in favour of the bill with the same arguments as other rapporteurs have used in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122604	Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122609	Thank you. Well, it's a good day and a good way to end a working week at least for some. Thank you very much for the very positive reception that has been given to the draft law. As has also been said, this is a very technical legislative proposal. I will certainly be the first to recognise this, and we are also here, it is safe to say, in a corner of tax legislation. However, it is important that the tax rules that we have are robust and, of course, also work as intended, and that is what the bill here should help to secure. Thanks for the roses to the Treasury. They have spent time on it and have pointed out with this bill that it is possible through the use of account-leading investment funds and investment companies to arrange in a way that the rules on the company's limited tax liability on dividends, interest and exchange gains can be circumvented. This concerns the tax liability of companies resident in countries outside the EU/EEA cooperation with which Denmark does not have a double taxation agreement, or more popularly said of companies based in some form of tax havens. Under Danish tax rules companies located in tax havens must pay tax to Denmark when they receive dividends from investment in Danish shares. Furthermore, companies such as these will have to pay taxes to Denmark when they receive interest on loans to a group company based in Denmark. The reason for the tax liability is that, as a result of the location of the companies in a tax haven, there will be no taxation in the country of origin. Without the Danish tax on companies in tax havens it will thus be possible, for example. to transfer funds from a Danish group company without any form of taxation, and, where interest is involved, even with the Danish group community's right to deduct the interest paid from the income statement. I welcome the support for the proposal. As I said, it is important that we ensure that we have tax legislation that is designed in such a way as to withstand attempts to circumvent and avoid, and therefore this tax gap must be closed. And as several have said, it is part of the work that the Danish Tax Office is doing continuously, and I am pleased with the broad support that traditionally exists to close tax gaps on the basis of these early warning. So thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122854	Thank you. No one has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122909	The debate is open. The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115122921	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. As has been mentioned, the Liberal Alliance has tabled a motion for a resolution, B-94, to reduce the rate of corporation tax by 1 percentage point from the current 22 per cent. 21 per cent. Let me begin by stating that I believe that corporate tax is a both sensible and reasonable tax, which has also, I think, and the government, found a sensible level. The company tax is initially paid by companies that have generated profits and profits in Denmark. This ensures that value created in Denmark is also taxed in this country, even if companies are wholly or partly owned from abroad. At the same time, corporate tax ensures that companies whose profits include: builds on our infrastructure and well-educated workforce, also contributing to its financing. Finally, corporate tax is also a tax on the extraordinary returns made by some companies, for example. to exploit common social resources, for example in the form of hydrocarbon extraction in the North Sea and fishing in Danish waters. Of course, the corporate tax should not differ significantly from the average in the rest of Europe. We must ensure that corporate tax does not impair the competitive environment of our companies compared to the companies that they compete with in our neighbouring countries. Therefore, I also believe that the current level of corporate tax means that there is a fine balance, and it does so in this context too, where it is about ensuring fair competition. The Liberal Alliance justifies, inter alia: the proposal that a reduction in corporate tax would help to increase growth on the other side of the covid-19 crisis. There should be no doubt that the pandemic we are in right now is and will continue to be a very great challenge both for Danish economy, Danish employees and Danish companies. Together with a broad majority in the Folketing, we have implemented historically large aid packages for the business community, and the government naturally focuses on the need to support the economy in this difficult time. We have good partners with us, among other things. More than 2.5 billion have been allocated. kr. to a temporary increase in companies' deductions from research and development activities. We have set aside 10 billion. kr. to a recapitalisation fund to help hold hands under needy companies. In addition to this, the billions of kroner allocated for example. compensation for salaries and compensation for fixed costs and loss of turnover. Of course, crisis management is a political choice, and that is why we have also had discussions before we have made the choice on how to deal with the crisis. In contrast, during the financial crisis, however, we have chosen to hold our hands under our jobs rather than to keep our hands under the banks and, in particular, the other part of the income scale's return on equity. This has ensured that by 2020 79,000 more ordinary Danes could hold Christmas as employees and not as unemployed, to put it popularly. The economic aid packages will also keep their hands under demand in the near future and are expected to ensure approx. 55,000 jobs in 2021 and is estimated to secure up to 45,000 jobs in 2022. In comparison, a reduction in corporation tax is estimated to have an employment effect of 300 full-time jobs. As a society, we have already invested billions of kroner in holding hands under Danish business and Danish jobs. That is not to say that we cannot do more, but tax cuts are by their very nature not free of charge. The Ministry of Taxation estimates that the Liberal Alliance's proposal to reduce corporate tax by 1 percentage point would lead to an immediate reduction in revenue of 2.6 billion. kr. annual. If reflows and behavioural changes are taken into account, this corresponds to an annual financing requirement of approx. 1.3 billion kr. This will leave less money for, for example, investment in education, infrastructure and green conversion, and it will reduce the scope for targeted support for companies in the areas of e.g.: research and development. This will also mean that we have fewer opportunities to put more hands and heads to take care of our sick and elderly and, above all, to ensure that our children have a good and safe everyday life while their parents are at work. In my opinion, this is a completely biased priority, something that perhaps has already been sensed. Covid-19 has stressed how dependent we are on each other and the strength of a modern and flexible welfare society. As I said, crisis policy is always a political choice. We choose to hold our hands under our jobs, our research and our green conversion and thus create the place for even more growth and even more conversion of Danish society, so that our companies are best equipped when we come out on the other side of the very unhappy and terrible crisis we are facing now. That is why I hope it is not surprising that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123502	There are a few brief comments. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123506	Fortunately, Danish society gets richer every year, and therefore more money comes into the Treasury. That money the government wants to spend on more public employees and higher transfer income. The fact that the government uses that room for manoeuvre does not mean that the government's higher transfer income and more public employees are unfunded. They're funded by the room. When we propose that parts of the room for manoeuvre should be used for lower taxes, it is not unfunded either. It's funded by the room. The question is: when you can reduce the corporate tax rate by 1 percentage point, it is true that the Treasury will be 1.3 billion. kr. poorer, but Danish society becomes 3.3 billion. kr. richer, in terms of company owners having more money and that employees also get higher wages because there is more investment in production in Denmark. Why is it a good trade to get 1.3 billion? kr. in the Treasury rather than 3.3 billion. kr. Out in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123608	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123609	Well, the Liberal Alliance must defend that itself. The government disagrees with that. We believe that it is better to spend the money on investing in research and development, for example. As I said before, that's one of the things we're spending the money on now. This helps to strengthen the Danish business community. We believe that corporate tax has a natural, sensible rent now that it is not a brake on the fact that we can have a business that stands strong in competition for the jobs of the future. We support it with increased deductions for research and development activities. We have just reached a broad agreement on a green tax reform, where up to 2025 there are approx. 5 billion kr. Increased possibilities for deduction and investment in the green conversion of enterprises. Crisis policy is political priorities. We have chosen ours, the Liberal Alliance has chosen theirs, and these are corporate tax reductions, which are then the answer. The government thinks this is wrong. And, in particular, it is a wrong medicine in the current situation where there is a need to do something very targeted so that we get through the crisis and ensure that we get out better on the other side.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123723	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123725	The tax minister is known to speak very black, but when I ask why the government has the policy of the government, it is of no use that the tax minister says that I must, of course, it is the tax minister who must defend his policy, and not me who must defend the government's policy. So the question is being repeated now, in the hope that we can get a real answer and not black talk: when we know that Danish society will be 3.3 billion. kr. richer by reducing corporate tax by 1 percentage point, why it is then necessary to have the high corporate tax rate when it only results in the Treasury being 1.3 billion. kr. richer? So you opt out of 3.3 billion. kr. into society, for the government to have 1.3 billion. kr. to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123808	Because, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, our priorities are different, which is why we give different priority to the money. We will not spend a lasting profit on reducing corporate taxation with all the uncertainties that may be associated with it. We will use them directly for investments in Danish companies and more jobs now and here. We have political disagreements, and that is the answer. I hope that's not very black talk. It is a political disagreement that we have, and it is known, and it is not new to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. He knows that very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123837	Sir. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123839	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. There is something I would like to clarify. I think I heard the Minister say that corporation tax is a tax that companies pay for profits and profits. What is the difference between profit and profit?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123857	Of course, you can have a longer discussion about that. Company taxation is, of course, what companies pay out of their profits, as in all sorts of other contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123911	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123912	I would have imagined that the Minister would answer that, because then my idea is that profit must then be a good thing. Sometimes you get the impression that the government doesn't think profit is very good, because you fight profit out among companies. It's just a reflection that it's something you have to remember next time you talk to companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115123942	I think it is perhaps quite an insult to say that the very large agreements we have made here in the coronatide should be an expression of the government and the parliamentary basis and the parties to the agreements that we have are fighting against profit. I'll tell you what. Now it is at the end of the week, and that is perhaps the most surprising view of the week. We have provided aid packages to an extent that is huge and we have provided credit facilities and improved liquidity on the territory of the Ministry of Taxation by postponing payment deadlines to a level of 300 billion. kr. If you look at what else we have done, then it is a very, very large billions that have one focus, namely to ensure that Danish industry gets through this terrible crisis as far as possible and out on the other hand will make money so that they can invest in jobs. I don't see the other reason for doing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124042	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124044	Thank you. If we go back to 2013, then the S-government lowered corporate tax from 25%. 22 per cent. as part of a growth plan for Denmark. One of the arguments was that the range in relation to comparable Western European countries, for example: Sweden could be too big in terms of corporate tax. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: would it be possible to get there again that the buckle will be too large? After all, Sweden has just planned and is planning further corporate tax reductions, so they come down to 20.6%, I think, versus our 22 percent. Can the range to countries such as Sweden be so large that Denmark will have to react in terms of corporate tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124129	Thank you for that, President. Well one can always have theoretical discussions about where corporate tax should be, and it is true that when we made a tax reform under the then SRSF government, it included a reduction in corporate taxation, precisely with those arguments. I and the government think that the level is right now, and then the taxation of our companies is always included in an overall assessment. There are plenty of other things that are part of it. However, as far as corporate taxation is concerned in isolation, we believe it is at the right level. Clearly, the taxation of our companies is, as a whole, about us in here, assuming that I have a clear interest in them doing the best they can in the competition for the jobs we need to create more growth. That is why we are constantly looking at how to improve the framework conditions for them. As far as corporate taxation is concerned, in isolation, we believe it is at the right level now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124225	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124226	Yes, and that is a valid point to have, that is to say, that you think it is well at the current level. What I am asking is that if we now see that the countries around us via, for example, the countries around us. crisis management chooses to lower corporate tax, is it something that you are watching so that the span will not be so large between Denmark and other countries that it can actually be detrimental to Danish economy and investment in Denmark and for companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124250	That is why I also said in my speech that Danish corporate taxation should not differ substantially from what is seen around us and therefore also in other countries of Europe. So the answer is yes, but at the same time it is important to stress that the taxation of companies is part of a whole. Company taxation is one, investment in training and the upgrading of employees is another, so competition is determined, as we know, by quite a lot of efforts every day in Danish companies. We can do something that others can do theirs, and company taxation is, of course, an element in the context that needs to be monitored.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124327	Thank you. There are no more comments. We're starting the debate now, and that's sir. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124358	Thank you very much. The Liberal Alliance proposes to impose a bill on the government to reduce corporate tax by 1 percentage point from 22 in 2020 to 21 in 2021 onwards. The authors of the proposal justify the proposal that the Danish economy should not only be restored to the status quo from before the corona crisis, and that is an ambition with which the Social Democratic Party agrees. This is among other things. Therefore, that the government has prioritized making recovery green, strengthening welfare and investing in both research and upgrading, so Denmark comes out on the other side of the corona crisis as a greener, fairer and stronger society. The authors of the proposals are motivated by the fact that fiscal policy should be designed in a way that ensures new growth. The government has through among others. several broad agreements delivered an extraordinary fiscal effort during the Corona crisis and, as the tax minister also emphasised, it has held hands in tens of thousands of Danish jobs and will also do so in the coming years. At the same time, fiscal efforts will increase the penetration rate by 21⁄2 percentage points in 2020, 3,1 percentage points in 2021 and 2,3 percentage points in 2022. The government's economic policy therefore already substantially supports employment and growth in society. At the same time, a reduction in the corporate tax rate, as has been described before, by 1 percentage point, would cost 1.3 billion. kr. after retreat and behavior. The proposers propose that it be financed by the fiscal room for manoeuvre until 2025. The room for manoeuvre can alternatively be used to strengthen investment in e.g. • training, infrastructure and research in order to ensure a good framework for businesses and a modern and flexible welfare society, and also, according to the government, the room for manoeuvre can also be used to ensure that the money for welfare comes with, for example, when there is a need for training, infrastructure and research in order to ensure a good environment for companies and a modern and flexible welfare society. become more children and older. In addition, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that there are more targeted tools to strengthen companies and the economy than a general reduction in corporate tax. For example: the government and a broad majority of Parliament's parties in the context of green tax reform agreed on a temporary increase in the deduction of corporate expenditure on research and experimental activities. At the same time, the green tax reform provides an incentive for companies to invest in switching production through an increased de minimis limit for immediate write-offs of DKK 30,000. as well as an investment window up to 2022 with an increased depreciation basis on certain operating resources. Social democracy cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124639	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124641	If corporate tax is reduced from 22 per cent. At 21%, Danish society will be 3.3 billion. kr. richer, even if the Treasury is only 1.3 billion. kr. poorer. Then the Social Democratic Party says: the 1.3 billion. kr. we'd like to use for something else. How small should a revenue in the Treasury be before the Social Democratic Party says: No, this is doing too much damage to society's wealth, so that it can be justified to levy that tax? If, for example, the figures are: Now was that the Treasury was 1 million. kr. poorer if we cut corporate tax by 1% and society was 3.3 billion. kr. richer, the Social Democratic Party would still say: this 1 million. kr. So we can use something in the treasury, and that is more important for us than society being 3.3 billion. kr. richer? How far down should we go before social democracy comes to the conclusion, as the rest of us do, that money in the treasury can also have too much a price for society as a whole?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124749	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124750	Now I am not in a position to debate from a theoretical point of view and something orally enlightened here about a 3-billion dollar thing, but that is, as the Minister also said, a political choice, what we are spending the money on. And our belief is that it is better to provide companies with favourable conditions in relation to depreciation of research and experimental activities, or to give society an opportunity to create a much better infrastructure than that which is today, for example in the form of new motorways, which we are also interested in having beyond the whole country, and that we get that way around the things in this society that we want, rather than just pouring the money out as gifts to business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124834	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124836	Now comes my figures, as I mention here in the debate, of course from the Minister for Taxation. Well, these are the figures of the tax minister that I am referring to, so it is not just something that I take out of my own pocket, and our proposal is not that the money should be taken from, for example. investments in infrastructure. Our proposal is that the money should be taken away from the room for manoeuvre that Social Democracy will spend on more public employees and higher transfer incomes. So that's what you have to compare with, that is, that the Social Democrats are going to spend this money on higher transfer income, pension to Arne, because early retirement is not good enough for him, more public servants, more educators. So the question is: is there not a limit to how little money can be made in the Treasury before it pays for social democracy anyway to collect that money, even if it does great damage to the economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124921	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124923	The last very many years have shown us that model, sir. Ole Birk Olesen shows, makes one out in Welfare Denmark get a real cut in a large number of welfare areas, despite the fact that the Liberal Alliance has said over all the years that it was something that was not noticed. We have made political choices other than those that the Liberal Alliance will make, and we stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124947	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115124950	Thank you. I should like to know whether the Socialist rapporteur thinks it was a mistake and it was wrong when, in 2013, the Social Democratic Government, with the support of the SF and the Radical Left, lowered corporate tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125003	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125004	I do not think that was a mistake, and that was at least part of the settlement reached at the time, among other things. so as not to put out too much, as the discussion has also been about earlier, in relation to the level that is elsewhere in Europe. And as the Minister also said, if things change, you would have to look at it. However, an approach to this issue is also to ensure, for example through the EU system, a common basis for how far down corporate tax must generally come, and I would, personally, much rather work towards bringing the other countries closer to our level than trying to race towards a common bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125040	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125041	Thank you. I am actually glad that the rapporteur says that, but it also shows that the Social Democrat tax rapporteur does not agree with the leader of the Social Democrat Party, Mette Frederiksen. Because she says, and I quote, that is in my view a wrong way of driving growth. Quote out. So Mette Frederiksen believes that this was a wrong decision that was made in 2013 and does not believe that company tax should have been lowered. However, I am pleased that the Socialist tax rapporteur does not agree with his own President and that it was right to reduce the tax at that time. So thank you for that clarification. So my question should be it's always good to start with the question, because now time has passed) 'Yes' if the rapporteur could give a few good examples of what it would do for the economy if company tax were lowered.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125127	We stand by this and the conclusions of a disagreement in the Social Democrat Party must be put to the test by the rapporteur himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125135	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125203	Yes, thank you to the President. It is absolutely crucial that we have a healthy climate for companies and investments in Denmark. We must ensure good business environments that, on the other hand, sign up to growth and prosperity when they have the opportunity to create value and demand for their services. That is why the Left has also helped to reduce corporate tax through the 00s and 2010s, so that today we are close to the EU average. Good framework conditions are many things. This is everything from taxes and charges and infrastructure to labour force, service level and municipal cooperation. Can companies have their employees repaired if they become ill? An effective health system is also important in order for the wheels to be able to drive around under the companies. What am I saying here? I say that these are priorities. These are priorities between reducing taxes and welfare benefits. That is also what we hear in the first speeches. And the Left has given priority to the room for manoeuvre. We have, for example. prioritized the green transition, a strong capital, restart team for rural areas, infrastructure. We support, for example: the green transport. We would like to increase the employment allowance, where we spend 1 billion. kr. of the room for manoeuvre. For green initiatives, we spend 1 billion. kr. The PRS tax must be phased out. And then we spend 1 billion. kr. to reduce all sorts of different taxes. We would like to support more green entrepreneurs. We want to strengthen export efforts. We want a green research reserve, a digital pioneering country in Denmark and a growth plan for life science. I could just keep going. We have a lot of plans in the Left for how we think that the room for manoeuvre is best used. I'm saying this because I know what kind of question I'm gonna get in a little bit, and that's why I'm actually already answering it now, and I hope that we can get a little further into the detail of all these things. We in the Left, of course, think that the proposal is a good one, and we think it is actually some very good questions that have been put to the Minister by the Liberal Alliance in connection with what we discussed yesterday, where we talked about the VAT increase and also some of the other questions that have been asked at the same time, we actually think that we are very good, and they are good for a discussion on how best to give priority to Denmark in the future. Nor will we rule out the possibility of talking about having a look at corporate tax. But that's just not what we can do now, and that's not what we think is best. We think the best part is what I just said. That is why we think it is a good proposal, but we do not like the way it is financed, and so we say 'no' to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125535	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125537	Thank you and thank you for accepting the proposal. I think that Mr. Kim Valentin's speech on funding was better today than yesterday because we were given the real explanation today. And it is not that it is unfunded to use the room; the real explanation is that the Left will use the room for something else, and I think that is honest talk. Then you can discuss another thing. Of all the things that Mr. Kim Valentin listed, I only heard one thing, which was a relief from the tax, and I think it was something about the employment allowance. All the other was subsidies for various things: export subsidies, green conversion grants, subsidies for one and subsidies for the other. Is it really the view of the Left that the way we get the most growth in Denmark is that there will be some more subsidies for business rather than facilitating corporate tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125638	Yes, thank you. It was actually my hope that we could get a little deeper into matter. However, there is one thing I have to correct from the outset, and that is that there are several different places where we spend money on tax relief and tax relief. It is, for example. is the phasing-out of the PSO tax, and we think that we are, in fact, allocating 1 billion. kr. to reduce many different types of charges in the system. We have included this in our draft budget, so it is not true that it was only 1 billion. kr. to the employment allowance. In any case, I would like to say that this is a priority in which we do not entirely agree with the Liberal Alliance, and that is why we hope that we will continue the dialogue. For the thing about looking at corporate tax, we have to do it on a regular basis. We must hit the right level of corporate tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125734	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125736	Yes, sir. Kim Valentin's phasing out of PSO, and it's funded through an agreement that we made back in 2016, I think it was. So we do not need to use the current room for manoeuvre to phase out the PRS tax. Using the room is not the only way to get money. You can also make reforms; you can increase employment; you can make the operation of the public sector more efficient, etc. Will the Left be willing to take action if it is not the room for manoeuvre that should be used to facilitate corporate tax • to carry out reforms that create funding to lower corporate tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125818	In fact, I think that what I am saying is a response to the fact that we never rule out the need to look at corporate tax. We've just focused on other places in relation to this year's Finance Act. I think I am pointing very clearly to where it is that we would like the tax to be reduced, because we believe it will have a greater impact on our businesses. With all due respect, I also think that I am pointing to areas of support that strengthen a greener transition and that strengthen that we are getting exactly the structural development of our society... export effort, life science, various other things... where we can say that here we get more for the money than if you just blindfold and say: Down with corporate tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125905	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125907	Thank you. If you do not want to spend the money and the scope for tax relief, I would like to know whether it is still the policy of the Left to spend almost all the room for manoeuvre on increasing public spending.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115125921	Now, in fact, I think that our draft budget is very good, that is, that there is a good balance between how we spend the money and how we get the money in; it would also be strange that I said something else by the way. But that's why we've got the tax stop. That is why we are saying that the tax freeze is a good, stable basis for telling citizens what it is, we will not just argue about reducing taxes without taking into account what is happening in the welfare system. In fact, I think that the way we have prioritised the money in our Finance Act in relation to the tax freeze is an expression of the fact that, yes, we want to spend money on welfare, but we also want to ensure that those who earn the money for welfare have had their taxes relieved. And that is what I have said here: that we are going to ease taxes in a large number of areas with this year's Finance Act and that we want to use the scope to create new growth in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130034	I understand that there is one more question for Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130036	I'm just asking, because when the Left went to the polls, it was spending the whole room, basically, on public spending. Then they found out that the room for manoeuvre was smaller, and then I just ask about it, not a special financial law, but the room for manoeuvre, and that is what they are now saying to use to lower taxes, which is supposed to create growth. Yesterday we had a debate where the Left did not think it was worthwhile to use the room for manoeuvre to finance tax reliefs and growth measures. Does the Left also believe that it is irresponsible to use the room for manoeuvre when the Left makes proposals to do so to reduce taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130117	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130122	No, we don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130127	There are no more brief comments. So we say thank you to the rapporteur, and after despriting it is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130154	After all, as has already been mentioned in the debate, the motion for a resolution by the Liberal Alliance is about a reduction in corporation tax by 1%. The background, as I read it, is that there have been a great many tax increases since the elections, and this is probably even more important for the proposers, I think that we want Denmark to be stronger on the other side of the crisis. I also think that the background is that a committee question has been tabled, No. 99, which has shown the effects of reducing corporate tax by 1%. It is, of course, that the supply of labour is increasing by 300 people, that bnp will increase by 3.3 billion. kr., but what was probably also surprising to me is that the Gini coefficient is actually unchanged. The Gini coefficient is what you can use as a tool to measure the inequality in Denmark, and it is so unchanged with this. This is, of course, largely due to the fact that, when you lower corporation tax, it will also propagate itself into higher wages, because when a company is allowed to keep a little more of its own money, it will invest more, or, as the Socialists will say, actually do more research, and it will put itself in a better competitiveness and thus later in a higher salary. The price is then 1.3 billion. kr. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Financial It is, in fact, mostly a description of the proposal, but perhaps what will be most surprising to the Liberal Alliance is that the Danish People's Party actually supports this proposal. We do so in the light of the many tax increases we have seen since the elections. In fact, we do not think that the tax should basically increase in Denmark. Together with the Liberal Alliance and also the other bourgeois parties, we helped to reduce the tax. I understand that there is a disagreement and that the Liberal Alliance will probably have the tax lower than we want, but we do not think that the tax in Denmark should rise as we have seen since the elections. That is why we think it is a good idea that there are other things that can compensate for it. It must also be said that we do not see corporate tax as the only thing we could look at. We have also looked at a number of charges which we have also debated a number of times in the Chamber. It may be crazy taxes that make no sense, but we would like to support this proposal because we would like to send out a clear signal that we do not think that the tax in Denmark should rise, as we have seen it do quite strongly here since the elections. We are in favour of a tax freeze in Denmark, not in the sense that there are no taxes that may increase, but, if so, there must be some others who must be reduced accordingly to compensate for it. We can support this proposal because, after all, it is a step in the direction that allows it to cancel some of the tax increases we have seen. So the Danish People's Party intends to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130425	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130430	Thank you. I just want to thank the Danish People's Party, because I think it's nice that this is how you join the bourgeois family. Then it can be said that it is a pity that the Left joins us at the same time. But do we not share a common spirit, because I also believe that Conservatives may be involved in this joint action? So thank you very much to the Danish People's Party for now seeing the good in lowering corporate tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130502	Thank you. It was mostly a comment, and the praise there was, I can only sign for. But I do not necessarily believe that the difference is so great in relation to the Left. I mean, I'm pretty confident that we can find some bourgeois policy with them. For the Left's rapporteur also mentioned that they also focused on, for example: taxes. So it could be that there were some taxes and charges we could agree to lower. Then I think we should be able to find each other if we get a bourgeois majority again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130523	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130527	Yeah, and we are. So it is, after all, a good compromise that we are getting the tax reductions and that the Left can get the tax reductions, and then we are all happy. So we can go along with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130537	I agree with that. We'll find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130540	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130544	I just want to say thank you for this. After all, there is a lot of talk in public and commentators and political opponents who say that the blue block has no common choice, and that is wrong. In the past, during the last parliamentary term, perhaps it was mostly that we shared a realistic foreign policy in Denmark, and there was a different view of the left, and we had little challenge in finding each other on economic policy, but as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also points out, we did actually do a great deal anyway. And now this can also be added to as something that we can do together, so that it is not just a matter of handicraft allowances and such things, but that we also agree to make general measures that reduce the tax burden on companies, so that we can get more investment in Denmark that benefits the whole of society. So I would just like to make that clear, and I note that the common agreement is also in the blue block, at least today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130646	I can confirm that, and it is only positive that, after all, we are beginning to be able to lay down some lines and some cuts as to what might happen after an election if we were to win. But the puzzle, which is also part of the debate, is that it is not what is being asked that I actually believe that the left will look at the corporation tax, even if they say no to it. Because when they do this green tax reform that they want to do, it will increase a lot of taxes on what has to be environmental improvement, and there have also been many initiatives from business organisations that say that you have to compensate business, and there may well be corporate tax that you are looking at. So my bid will actually also be that even the left will be able to look at corporate tax before a green tax reform is completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130720	There are no further brief comments, and so we thank Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær. Then it is Mrs Kathrine On Saturday, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130743	Thank you very much for the initiative and for the proposal. For the Radical Left, the corporate tax is not an ideological battleground, as it may be for other parties, and that is why we really think that it is at the moment a very good 22 per cent. And the fact that other EU countries are vying to attract companies by competing to have the lowest corporation tax, we see as a very unhealthy race to the bottom. We are very well placed in Denmark by the fact that many large old Danish companies still choose to run their business from here. This is very good in the Treasury, it provides jobs and makes us a leader in know-how, research and development, as other rapporteurs have also pointed out. In other words, we see no need to participate in the race to the bottom. On the other hand, we see a very great need to find the ground in the European Union, and we would really like the Liberal Alliance to participate in that work. Because we can see that there is at least no vote for this in the European Parliament in that party. In these words, we reject the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130855	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130858	We do not think that corporate tax is a very logical and sensible thing to have. We would have no objection to the whole world abolishing all corporation tax. For what we think is logical is that if you have some owners of some companies and they choose to take some money out as dividends, then the dividends should be taxed in the same way as if they had a regular wage income, and that also happens. These are the rules in Denmark, and these are the rules elsewhere. If the money stays in the company to be reinvested or to upholster the company against bad times, we actually think it's a good place to have the money. It is no better to charge that money and put it in the treasury than to be reinvested in production for the benefit of the whole of society. That is why we do not object to ending up in the place where there is no corporate tax in the world anymore, because we do not think that corporate tax is very sensible. What makes sense is to have a tax on money when they are drawn out as dividends.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115130956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131000	Danish companies with headquarters here also benefit from the infrastructure we have from the welfare system of institutions that support employees' lives. And I actually believe that this issue, as I remember it, was exactly one of the points of dispute that the Radical Left once had internally, where there was a break-out group that then formed a party that has subsequently become the Liberal Alliance. So I actually remember this as one of the ideological ^ what to say is cut that was between what has become the Liberal Alliance now, and the Radical Left. So I actually feel quite well to keep talking about the fact that we have a corporate tax in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131038	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131041	However, it is of benefit to society that companies have money that companies can reinvest. It's good for society. In other words, the employees in the companies get higher wages and the wages are taxed, the owners take out more money as dividends so that they can start using them. It is, of course, often the point of investing in companies that you want a return that you can start using in your private life, and it also comes to taxation. It is just the idea that society benefits most from the fact that that money is in the treasury rather than the fact that it is in the companies that I would like to challenge, and I would like the radical rapporteur to say that that money is doing more good in the treasury than in the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131122	I think there is a really fine balance between how much companies pay into the treasury of their profits to also help support Danish society with their profits and what they then keep themselves to reinvest. We also think, as the Minister of Taxation very well stated, that some of the measures we have taken in connection with the Finance Act and the aid packages, for example. The research and development allowance, which we are extremely proud of in the Radical Left, helps very well. So we are satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131152	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131156	Thank you. Can the rapporteur mention some of the positive economic effects it would have if corporate tax were lowered?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131206	As I said, this is not an ideological battle, so I fully agree with those arguments, including with the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur and with the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. We see, of course, that if you lower corporate tax, there will be growth. It is not necessarily the case that there is a one-to-one connection, because there may also be other factors. For example, when we reduced corporate tax from 2011 to 2016, it was. also on an upswing after the financial crisis, which did not necessarily depend only on a lower corporation tax. It could also be that companies came back for other reasons. This is a complex size and not just one for a simple black-and-white case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131238	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131241	All right, so the rapporteur recognises that there are positive economic effects, for example. on real wages and something else for the employees. Now the rapporteur said that it should not be a race against the bottom, but does the rapporteur also recognise that the tension can simply be so great between Denmark and comparable countries that we have to respond to it? Then it may be that we do not want that to be what we have to do, but can it simply be so economically damaging that we have to respond to it in relation to corporate tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131310	Yes, completely, and it doesn't even have to be a recognition, because it's actually quite logical that it shouldn't be too big. But we see no point in participating in the race to the bottom. We would actually rather the other European countries get inspired and try to push them up or take the joint fight for a common bottom. Because that's the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131330	We thank the rapporteur. No further brief comments. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131350	Thank you. The proposal here, tabled by the Liberal Alliance, aims to reduce corporate tax by one percentage point. When we lower the tax, the money must be found, and that means less money for welfare. I understand that there can be a competitive advantage by cutting taxes. That is also the argument of the Liberal Alliance. I think that is quite obvious, but that approach only contributes to another race towards the bottom, where there are no winners. Slowly, but surely, the tax base will be undermined until we all hit zero corporation tax, which is why I believe not only that we in Denmark should refrain from participating in this unhealthy competition, but should also work for a bottom below corporate tax in the European Union, as the Radical Left has just argued. The SF does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131438	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131443	Up to the 2019 elections, SF spoke a lot about poverty in Denmark and that it was SF's goal that there should be no poverty in Denmark. The result of lowering corporate tax is, according to the tax minister, that all income groups are getting richer by it, including the people that the SF has claimed to be poor. Why is it actually that we should give the SF any credibility when the SF goes to the polls to want to make people richer, but in fact make finance laws that make the same people poorer and will not vote for proposals that would actually make people richer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131520	This is because there are a great many other ways of combating poverty that are significantly more effective than going in to lower corporate tax. In my view, we should focus on where there are people affected by poverty and spend the money there, instead of lowering the general corporation tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131534	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131537	It is possible that Mr. Carl Valentin means it, but sir does. Carl Valentin didn't. Sir. Carl Valentin votes in favour of fiscal laws that make the groups he claims to be already too poor. So the policy, as Mr. Carl Valentin says he'd rather lead than do this, which would also make those groups richer, Mr. Carl Valentin doesn't. And why should we believe in anything that SF says when SF conducts exactly the opposite policy of what you go for election on?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131608	The SF is not pursuing exactly the opposite policy of what we are going to vote on, and we are, in fact, continuing to fight for the abolition of poverty benefits and the removal of the ceiling on cash benefits and many of these other things. So there are plenty of things we are working on now to reduce poverty in Denmark, and much more of that I hope we will get rid of during the rest of the parliamentary term here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131625	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131628	I should just like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that last year, as the SF voted in favour, the Finance Act makes people in the lowest income group poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131639	As I recall, it acts, among other things. on tobacco taxes, and there we have been in a rather big dilemma, because we basically think it is important to fight for more public health, but there are also some inequalities in it. That is why I think we should do more to combat inequality in other ways, and we will continue to work for that, but I think it is true what Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen says that here, and I think that is really problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131702	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131704	Thank you. Can the rapporteur also confirm that those hit hard by the recent reform of car taxation are those who had the least income?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131716	That they are hit hard, I don't think it's fair to say. There is a tiny effect, and that must then be combated with other initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131724	There are no more brief comments, so we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115131753	It is no surprise that Enhedslisten does not want to play a part in the race towards the bottom of corporate tax that is going on internationally. And the Liberal Alliance's desire for lower corporation tax is well known. Normally, the Liberal Alliance would like to reduce corporate tax to 12.5%. Ole Birk Olesen sits and nods from his seat and thus Denmark would then place itself together with a number of low-tax countries. It would cost billions of dollars from the Treasury. From this point of view, it must be said that this motion for a resolution is almost humble because what is being proposed is a 1% reduction in corporation tax, which, according to the motion for a resolution, costs 1.3 billion. kr. a year, then financed by the scope for welfare. Of course, Enhedslisten cannot support this. I also have a few comments to make on the discussion that has been going on about what the socio-economic impact should be by lowering corporate tax. For there is no doubt that this will mean that a billion dollars will be taken which should have been spent on some educators, sosus, nurses in our hospitals or to roll back the inequality-building reforms, such as those we have here. has looked at the areas of unemployment benefit, cash benefits and early retirement. The 1.3 billion. kr., as the Liberal Alliance suggests, should then instead be used to be given to companies. The argument is that when companies have to pay a little less in tax, they will invest something more, and when companies invest more, productivity will increase and wages will also increase because productivity and wages are linked, and that will then increase the growth of society. A prerequisite for this logic is that companies actually invest the money they get out of a lower tax. And it has to be said that when you look at the comparison between the level of corporation tax, which has been decreasing over the years, and the investments made by companies, there is no one-to-one relationship. And that is why there is no guarantee, when we lower corporate tax, that it will then go to investment; it may just as well end up in shareholders' pockets, as we have seen that a great deal has happened here in recent years, when there has been a definite share party with shareholders over a broad board, both in non-financial companies and also within banks. Therefore, it makes more sense, when we want to promote investment, to do so in a targeted way. And that is where I would like to highlight a heartchild for the Enhedslisten, which is Denmark's Green Future Fund, which we established in connection with the 2020 Finance Act, where we make a strengthening of it, so that we ensure more investment that takes place with Danish companies in green jobs, which both promote the green transition and thus the fight against climate change and also create employment in Denmark, but which actually also helps to create employment elsewhere in the world and thus can also have a positive impact on the employment created within the green transition in Denmark. And with the initiatives we took there, we will be releasing 25 billion in total. kr. to the green transition and to the strengthening of the Danish Green Future Fund, which we adopted in the context of the 2020 Finance Act. So instead of simply putting down such general corporate tax reductions where there is no guarantee whatsoever that the money will all go to investment, and certainly not to investments in the green conversion necessarily, we think it is much more sensible to look at how we can make targeted schemes that ensure that investments are made, including investments in Danish jobs, but that it is done in a way that promotes the green conversion and actually also ensures that investments are made. So the Enhedslisten cannot in any way support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132207	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132211	If you ask economists who are researching this topic why we have become richer over the past many years, why hourly wages have increased over the past many years, then the answer is that it is because every time an employee goes to work today, the employee can produce greater values than 50 years ago or 100 years ago. And because you have higher productivity, it also puts itself in higher wages. It is not actually because we have trade unions in Denmark, nor is it because we have education in Denmark that this is primarily happening. This happens primarily, they say, if you ask them, because more has been invested in the capital stock in Denmark. In other words, when you go to work, you work with a machine that allows you to produce more per job. hour, you work. So it is investment that drives prosperity and the fact that we have much more money today to deal with the weak as well. Why won't Enhedslisten put turbo on this process?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132317	There are two things to say about that. It is also important that we invest in our welfare societies, because companies would never have done so well if there had not been good child care at a low price if there had not been free education if there had not been free health, if we had not had good infrastructure, if we had not had an efficient, modern and digitalised public administration, all things that help make Denmark one of the most equal, but also one of the most competitive societies. So that is something that needs to be invested in, and companies benefit from it. The second point is that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's arguments that this is a loss, also a loss of productivity if these 1.3 billion. kr., which the Liberal Alliance is going to spend on this, could have been better spent on making some schemes that create more targeted investments, perhaps even for a much cheaper money than what the Liberal Alliance is proposing. So here you get a low impact of the money, because the money can just as well go to the shareholders rather than to the investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132409	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132412	Yes, if but the answer from the Treasury ^ from the government and from the tax minister, as Mr. Rune Lund holds in power... is that if we spend the 1.3 billion. kr. from the Treasury to lower corporate tax, Denmark becomes a society of 3.3 billion. kr. richer in terms of higher incomes for employees and higher yields, for example. for people who have a pension that is invested in companies. So for that, if from Mr. I would like to say that Rune Lund's side is not the case. If you ask Mr. Rune Lund's own government, so it says: 3.3 billion. kr. in exchange for 1.3 billion in the Treasury. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132456	Well, such a calculation is also an expression of a lot if's, for there are a large number of prerequisites in that report. And I stand here from the speaking chair of the Folketing and would like to question whether the money that comes to companies if they have to pay a lower corporation tax is actually going to investments to the extent that it is assumed; they may as well end up in the shareholders' pockets. So the methods of calculation used in the Ministry of Finance and in the Treasury for that matter are, of course, some methods of calculation which are still under discussion and which are also very much under discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132529	Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132532	Thank you. Can the rapporteur confirm that if corporate tax is reduced, transfer services will increase in the long term?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132545	This is an interesting question, because there we have a question about what is called incidence, which is also part of the discussion about the calculator, and which is about what happens if you raise corporation tax, because who will pay for it? Do they have to be business owners? Is it the employees of the company who receive a lower salary? Or will the higher tax be passed on to consumer prices when the company sells its goods to consumers? And I just have to say that the prerequisite for the question that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is asking, of course, that higher corporation tax will lead to less for consumers or for employees. But then the logical counter-question is also: what is the problem of higher corporation tax, if that is the case, as is the case with the question that Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen is still here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132639	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132642	That's not what I asked. If you lower corporate tax, it puts itself in higher real wages. Higher real wages are tied up with the regulatory mechanism, so that it also goes on public wages and also on public services, so that when there is a real increase in private and public wages, it will also put itself on public services, which then also increases. That's just what I'm talking about. So my question is whether the rapporteur can confirm that this is actually how we have legally tied it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132709	Well, that's exactly what I'm saying, just with reverse sign, if I may say, in the example I did. In other words, if it really is a burning desire on the part of New Citizens to improve public services, such as: early retirement, cash benefits and cash benefits, we would very much like to join with New Citizens' I don't think it's gonna happen • make agreements where we actually make sure it happens. The point of saying that improving the conditions for ordinary employees by making corporate tax reductions, which are also at risk of becoming directly into the pockets of shareholders, seems to us to be a very bad way of making legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132747	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115132819	Thank you. In the Conservative Finance Bill, which we presented in connection with the examination of the draft budget for 2021, we proposed lowering corporate tax from 22 to 19 per cent. Today, we are discussing a proposal to reduce corporate tax by 1 percentage point from 22 to 21 per cent, a modest proposal that is about trying to get support for something that is a little less ambitious than what we really would like to see in the citizens of Europe. I am pleased to hear that there is support from most bourgeois parties: from the Liberal Alliance, which has tabled the proposal itself, from the New Citizens' Party and from the Danish People's Party, and we also hope that we can bring the Left along; we had also hoped that we could have radicals on a proposal here that would make Denmark richer. If we reduce corporate tax by one percentage point, the Treasury will lose 1.3 billion. kr., while society becomes 3.3 billion. kr. richer, so bnp increases by 3.3 billion. kr. It must be said to be a very good deal. You have to be very, very fond of the state and of the public to think that the money is worth much more if they are in the treasury than they are if they are out in society. We have great respect for public servants, we have great respect for many of the tasks that are being carried out in the public sector, but we do not have the view that the money is worth much more if it goes into the treasury instead of it being found in society. Prosperity and welfare are not about making the public purses as large as possible, it is about making society richer, and if you are in favour of it, you are also in favour of making a trade in which the Treasury is certainly missing 1.3 billion. kr., but where society becomes 3.3 billion. kr. richer. Therefore, we should vote in favour of lowering corporate tax next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115133024	There are no brief comments. So, thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115133050	Reducing corporation tax is a very good idea, and it is for several reasons. Society is getting richer, real wages are rising, wages both in private and public and even transfer incomes are getting higher because of this. It's a pure Kinderæg of good things if you lower corporate tax. When we talk about corporate tax, such a misguided discourse often sneaks in about the fact that it is about company owners just having more money, but that is not what is the case because corporate owners are taxed by money they draw from companies, just like everyone else. So corporate tax is a tax on productivity, it is a tax on wages and it is a tax on investment. I would like to send a welcome thought here to the former Socialist Government, which, in cooperation with the Radical Left and the SF, reduced corporate tax. After all, the Enhedslisten held hands under this government, and Enhedslisten must also be thanked for not pulling the curtain away under a government that both lowered corporate tax and raised the top tax limit. Those were good times for the Enhedslisten then. So thank you so much. It is to be hoped that the current government can find greater inspiration from the previous government, for both lowering corporate tax, but also raising the top tax limit actually worked very well and set the wheels going. People often say that New Citizens do not affect Danish politics, but today we are actually hearing that more parties, including parties that have previously opposed corporate tax reductions, are now looking for tax reductions, and I have signed up for this to the rapporteurs, and I would also like to sign for that from the platform. I think it is good tactics that both Liberal Alliance, New Citizens and now also the Danish People's Party and Conservatives want corporate tax reductions. I'll look down at the left. We hope we can bring them in. The Left would like to reduce some taxes. We agree with that, so we may be able to make a small trade so that we lower some taxes and corporation tax at the same time. Then it is a pure win-win, and then we can go out to the voters with a purely bourgeois vision for a better Denmark. So in New Citizen, we support this. It is only a single percentage point that it is being lowered, but it is better than nothing, and we also know that both the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives and the New Citizen have ambitions for more on corporate tax, but a little bit, as the Liberal Alliance proposes here, we are definitely taking along too. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115133335	Thank you. No brief remarks. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115133356	Thank you. If we look at the economic development of our free part of the world in recent decades and even centuries, we see that those years are characterized by the fact that ever-increasing incomes in society, the hourly wages that people get when they go to work draw a graph that just goes up and up, so that today we have reached the point that we actually think that people are quite well in Denmark and in the other countries. If you draw the graph of how the productivity of people who go to work develops, then it follows completely the hourly wage. In other words, it is productivity that you can produce more values per year. hours, you go to work, which leads to you also getting a higher salary. Because if you can produce many values at work, the desire to hire you increases, and then the demand for labour increases, and thus wages are also pulled up, because after all there is not infinite labour in Danish society or in other societies, so the employers who want to get hold of that labour that can now produce even more per year. In other words, hours will have to be increased to obtain it, and so can they. They can raise wages because they can earn more money per year. hours, employees go to work. So productivity increases lead to an increase in the wage earned per employee. hour, you go to work. What then leads to the employees out there being more productive when they go to work? Yes, there are different factors involved here, but the most important thing is how much money has been spent on the capital stock that people are working with. I mean, if we take it completely simplistic, that when people went after a horse with a plough and plowed the field one ploughfure at a time, you can figure out that there is not much production there. hour. But then when you sit on a modern tractor with seven ploughs and drive 1 hour, you can see: Okay, this is fast. A great deal is produced per person. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That is the case in agriculture, and that is the case elsewhere. We are familiar with the mechanization of the industrial sector, because when we used to work only with a hammer and the power of our hands, there were limits to how much one could produce. Today, when you unfold your work with machines that can produce 10 times, 100 times more per day. If you go to work, you get a lot of production. So we want those investments in the capital stock because it increases productivity, which also increases wages and which increases the prosperity of the society we are in. So the question is: How can we get more investment in the production equipment in Denmark? Yes, we certainly cannot do that by having a high tax rate on investing in Denmark. Then people want to put the money in something else. It may be that they would rather buy a home, for example, they also increase a lot in value, or that they would rather invest in production in a country other than Denmark if taxation there is lower. We know that if we lower corporate tax in Denmark, we will get more investment in the production apparatus in Denmark and thus a higher hourly wage for employees and a higher prosperity for the whole of society. So we should do that. We should also do this in recognition that what we want to tax is not that people want to invest in production in Denmark. So what we think we can tax is if people pull money out of production for their own private consumption, and that happens, no matter how high the corporation tax is in Denmark. If you pull the money out of the company as a return or a return, there is a tax on the money out of the person who withdraws the money, which corresponds to the normal income tax in Denmark, and we should be satisfied with that. Surely it should not be the case that if you leave the money in the company itself, where it can benefit the whole of society, including the employees, you also have to be taxed there. It is good if people leave the money in the company for reinvestment or to upholster the company against bad times. With regard to the latter here during the corona epidemic: would it not have been better for companies to have some more money to resist than having to invent different aid packages to remedy the problems that were in the companies, because they themselves did not have enough money out there to resist, because over the years they have paid a great deal of their money in tax? What we know when we ask the government, which has great expertise in the form of officials who can count on such things, is that if we reduce corporate tax by 1 percentage point from 22 per cent. At 21%, the Treasury is missing 1.3 billion. kr., and that is of course a sum, but society, in turn, is due to the processes I have talked about here in my speech, 3.3 billion. kr. richer. So, because the Treasury will be 1.3 billion. kr. poorer, society becomes 3.3 billion. kr. richer. And then some people say, "Well, we don't want that prey." There are also some who cheer for that, and those who cheer, remind a little of her wife in Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tales about the man who went to the market with a horse and came home with a bag of rotten apples. She wasn't very clever, she had great faith in her husband, but it wasn't very clever to cheer for him when he went to the market with a horse and came back with a sack full of rotten apples. And you have to say that to the government and the left: you swap 3.3 billion. kr. in the prosperity of society by 1.3 billion. kr. in prosperity for the Treasury. It's not a good prey, and you shouldn't be rooting for that. So for us, this is straightforward and we welcome the fact that there is so much support for it. Both the New Civil and the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives think this is a good way to use the room for manoeuvre in the Treasury to lower corporate tax. The left, I understand, thinks that the room for manoeuvre should be spent on something else, but is open to whether or not there is another way to find 1.3 billion. kr. to reduce corporate tax by 1 percentage point. We should be able to find out together when we eventually overthrow this terrible government, and we look forward to it, we welcome it, and so thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134126	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134132	Thank you for that and thank you to the Liberal Alliance for raising the issue. As is clearly heard in the course of the debate, the Left is, after all, a strong advocate of reducing taxes when we have the opportunity to do so, and in this instance we have given priority to reducing taxes elsewhere. I also think that the rapporteur has a bit of blindfolding on him. Why? Yes, it is true that capital is important, but it is only one side of the coin. The other side of the medal, for example, is that we have research and development... it costs money... and that we have an education of our workforce out there. It is of no use, of course, that we are just looking at the fact that capital is cheap, but that we do not have any training for our labour, that we do not have any support for research. We would never have gotten the tractor if we had not also had a university that provided all the knowledge to do so, to follow the rapporteur's comment. Does the rapporteur recognise this connection?
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134241	Yes, I recognise that training for people who contribute to innovation and research etc. helps to increase productivity in a society and thus make society richer. But it is true what I am saying when I refer to economists who have researched on this, i.e. that what works most, what matters the most, and clearly more than all sorts of other factors, is how much money is invested in capital, so that productivity is increased. This is the most significant contribution to increased prosperity and increased productivity in a society. I think the Left tends instead of doing the big, broad things that really bat for all industries, so to look out for all sorts of pets in the business world, which must have some money from public pools. I think that is an unfortunate approach to it. For example: is such a thing as a craftsman's allowance, then clearly a worse idea than to lower corporate tax. However, the Left is in favour of a craftsman's allowance and does not want to set aside money to lower corporate tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134340	Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134343	Yes, it is true that a pet is making investments in green technology, green development, green transport. It is absolutely right that we want to focus on that, and it is fair enough that the Liberal Alliance does not do so. However, we think it is better to lighten the tax elsewhere, which gives exactly the same amount of money back in the treasury when it is done in cooperation with the development of proper labour, the development of research, the development of our universities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134419	There are none of the things that Mr. Kim Valentin has listed today, on which the Left would rather use the room for manoeuvre, which gives a bigger bnp-growth than to lower corporate tax. Lowering corporate tax leads to higher growth in GDP than all the different aid schemes, as Mr. Kim Valentin would rather spend money on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134436	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134440	We are on our way this weekend, but I am simply somewhat provoked when the Left is now saying that money should be spent on education when, during their own last term of office when they had the power, they actually cut the education. Then you stand here and say that there is no room for choice of education or tax relief. Come on! The Treasury is full of money that is over 1,200 billion. kr., and you'll be able to find 1.3 billion. kr. to reduce corporate tax on all public consumption. I just have to say that the consumption of central administration and management increased by 435 million. kr. during the last period in the municipalities. There are plenty of places to take money from. Yes, that was a comment, and you can do that here. I have read it out and it does not need to be questions, but you can make a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134519	That is absolutely correct, but it is of course problematic when you make a comment on someone who cannot answer. But perhaps the rapporteur can answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134530	Yes, I am just taking note of what has been said to the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134535	Thank you. As no one else has asked questions, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210115134554	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 19 January 2021 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website. Have a good weekend!
