ParlaMint-DK_20210316144002	The meeting is open. The items listed as No. 5 and No 9 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144020	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144132	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. Before starting the vote, I would ask each Member to look at the voting panel just to see if it is one's own name that is in the voting panel. And if that is the case, then I dare to start the vote. There is one proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 83 by Signe Munk (SF), Bjørn Brandenborg (S), Tommy Ahlers (V), Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mona Juul (KF), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG). And a vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 94 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 2 (NB), abstained 0. Proposal for adoption No V 83 adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144316	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144319	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 87 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, NB, LA and ALT), against 8 (KF, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144402	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144406	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA and ALT), against 2 (Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144432	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144452	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote shall be closed. In favour 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 2 (NB), abstention 8 (DF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144518	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144534	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 94 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144608	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144623	Thank you. I would ask that the matter be referred back to committee between the second and third readings if things do not oppose the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144632	Thank you. This has now been proposed. The debate is not closed. We shall first proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144639	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 5 is to be voted on. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2. Amendment No. 3 is made by a minority (LA) and joined by a minority (Jens Rohde (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 2 (LA), against 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The Jens Rohde is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done on this subject. 4-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144733	It has been proposed that the proposal be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144753	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144800	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 3 without adding the report adopted by the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries to the report. It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144855	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144901	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of NB)? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144944	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316144950	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG))? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316145020	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316145046	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316145052	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, KF and LA) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against voting 51 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), abstention 0. Amendment No. 1 has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? I shall now suspend the sitting for almost 14 minutes until 3.05 p.m. This will allow the seats to be cleaned, and I therefore ask all Members to leave the Chamber in good order.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316150743	The sitting is resumed. We shall first give the floor to the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Henrik Møller. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316150807	Thank you, President. I was just about to say that here we are again in relation to some Corona legislation where we have to go in and make an extension, and the Social Democrats have no problems with that. It is clear that we hope that we will gradually see the light at the end of the tunnel, and we hope that at least it is not an oncoming train that is on the other end. No, we think it is starting to brighten, but we are not yet where we should be, and therefore it is important that, in relation to some of these people who have been affected, or have relatives who have been affected, we still provide some financial opportunities to manage. We have also ensured and set out that, in relation to some of the self-employed, there are some opportunities built in which had initially been overlooked. So from the point of view of the Social Democrats, we must recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316150907	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316150917	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing today highlights the gravity of the crisis we are facing. Corona is still part of our everyday life, and it affects the whole of society. It's moving forward. A quarter of a million Danes are now fully vaccinated against coronavirus, and almost 600,000 have started vaccination. That is good news; they could be better, but we have always known that the fight against corona was not a sprint, but a marathon. We've been strong and bitten the pain in us; we've lived with restrictions on what now feels like an eternity. You can just look at my hair, which unfortunately has gotten a little too far. But our children have now been home, and many older people have been isolated and alone. I'm afraid this isn't the end. We're gonna have to fight the last tough fight. Hopefully it will only last this summer, when the majority of us will have been vaccinated. This should be the message to the Danes who are covered by this bill. It is about people who are at increased risk of a serious illness and their relatives. Of course, you must be given the opportunity to have your sickness benefit extended. Similarly, employers must be given the opportunity to obtain an extension of the right to reimbursement. Also those parents who have to be at home and care for children etc. in relation to cases of infection, are covered by the Agreement, which is extended as regards their entitlement to the daily allowance. In addition, today's proposal introduces that, in assessing whether an employment requirement is met, the period from last December to April of this year should be disregarded. It makes very good sense, given that self-employed people have not been able to operate because of decommissioning. We cannot therefore expect them to meet the employment requirements. The Corona virus has also had enormous consequences and continues to create insecurity, and with the concrete proposal today we give the Danes a helping hand and the security that many need. This is a good first step, but there is also much more that we can and must do. I would like to take this opportunity today to call on the government to reopen. The Left has presented a concrete reopening plan which we would very much like the government to be inspired by. It is an important first step to have schools fully opened up and the liberal professions re-open. Children and young people are miserable, and business owners are looking into the bankruptcy. The closure has taken far too long, and it is time to open up society with respect, of course, to the infection figures. The Left believes that society can handle it. We want to give the responsibility back to the Danes, they can do it themselves. With those words, I just want to say that the Left supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316151242	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and we pass on the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316151259	Thank you for that, President. This bill extends some existing arrangements to compensate people who are in particularly vulnerable groups. It may be adults who are on the labour market, and it may be parents who have children who are ill, where there is a need to be at home so that they do not bring the infection home. It is also a legislative proposal that takes account of small self-employed people, for example. Hairdressers, concerning the employment requirement. This will change so that the period not to be included will run until 30 April 2021. So, all in all, it is a good proposal. But having said that, we must also think that it is over a year since we started this corona, and there are many who have been affected by restrictions on good and evil. At the moment, further reopening is being negotiated, and we can see that, of course, those who are in particular risk groups have to be taken into account, and that is what this proposal will do, because they can stay at home. But having said that, we can also see that there are many small self-employed professions simply hanging on the water crust. Something needs to be done, and an example of this is small independent hairdressers. It is very, very limited what we have heard about someone who has been infected by a hairdresser. There you could look a little more at if there were not some more small self-employed people who could be allowed to actively open, including restaurants in this regard; you could also look at the assembly ceiling, which is currently five, also in private homes. There you can say that if there is a family that includes a little more then of course they can be there. However, it is difficult to judge which of those with whom you otherwise have the day-to-day relationship, you should refrain from inviting you to have your children. These are the things that we in the Danish People's Party think the government could be responsive to both what is being said by us, but also by other parties. You could start to relax a little while while taking into account this group which is particularly vulnerable so that they can still stay at home. With those words, of course, I hope that the government will listen to what we in the Danish People's Party have of desires for more reopening, also with care for those who are in a particularly vulnerable group, instead of saying that it takes 3 weeks to go 4 weeks. There is no one who knows how long it is going to take, but those restrictions are increasingly affecting you, especially when you can see that there are very few people infected. Does anyone know anyone who's infected? I don't think there's a lot of people where I live. We're gonna have to look a long time to find somebody who's infected. And then it becomes even more incomprehensible why you can't start looking at regional or local things like that, because there are some places you can open up a little more than elsewhere. However, it is the government that is responsible for running the tight decommissioning in this respect, but I hope that the government will listen to what is being said in the various negotiations that are now taking place ■ if there are therefore some negotiations going on and not just briefing meetings that we have been through in the past. But the Danish People's Party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316151648	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316151710	It has been a long year, when we have practically jumped from stone to stone in unknown coronaland, an epidemic that draws with it insecurity about disease. However, today we can again create a little more security in the families that are particularly vulnerable and where the consequences of being hit by corona can be fatal. We can do this by extending the right to sickness benefit and by providing better reimbursement to employers. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316151751	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the Radical Left rapporteur. This is Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316151806	Thank you very much. We are still in a serious situation, even if things are going towards lighter times and even if more and more people are being vaccinated. That is why we must also extend a number of well-known measures in the fight against covid-19, including: for the people who are at risk of covid-19 and their relatives, but also for our self-employed. And that is why an important element of this draft law is, among other things, that the employment requirement for maternity benefit and sickness benefit should be disregarded, given that the liberal professions are still closed down and self-employed people who are in the situation of being on maternity leave are in trouble. Radical Left recommends the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316151905	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316151917	Thank you. The draft law that we are now extending was first adopted in May, i.e. 2 months after the first aid packages were launched, and Enhedslisten was very pleased that a safety net was now stretched out under the people who were particularly vulnerable and in the risk group. We were pleased about this, and that is why, of course, we are also glad that now that everything has lasted longer than we imagined at the time, we are now extending the same protection that allows those people to take account of their health and the health of their families and their relatives. So, of course, Enhedslisten supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316151958	There are no brief comments and we would like to thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316152012	Thank you, President. It should be safe to go to work, and therefore those particularly at risk of becoming seriously ill every time they go to work must have the necessary help, and we do so with an extension of this agreement. It is an agreement which can at the same time help the country's companies by granting them the right to reimbursement of sickness benefit for workers at risk. They are already under severe pressure and should not be penalised further because they have employees who are at increased risk. Like their associates, they deserve security and certainty. So let's do it. At the same time, we hope that this is the last time we have to extend this agreement. I hope that by the end of June we will find ourselves in a situation in which it can again be safe to go to work for those who are at increased risk of becoming ill with corona. However, as it is now, we need to help create security, which is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316152121	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316152132	Thank you. In these times when our democracy is under pressure and when you have the feeling that the Folketing and the government are not listening to the citizens in the way they should, there may also be little glimpses of sunshine stories out there, and this may be one of them. I was informed through Facebook, with which many have a hate-love relationship, that there was a problem in this area. And thankful that I was brought to my attention on a late Friday afternoon close to the evening, I contacted the Minister and asked: is there a problem here? This seems weird. The minister immediately grabbed the office, looked at the cases and said: something is not going on here, of course we have to change that. And after 4-5 hours, I could pick up the phone and call the hairdresser, who had been caught, who was unhappy, and who was discouraged by the situation she was in. Sometimes we can also clap each other on the shoulders when we act like that. So thank you very much to the Minister for the Minister's manner in this matter. We must also have a slightly bigger look at it, because the hairdresser was not alone, and the hairdresser was in those problems because we choose to drive with a principle of overindulgence, and because we keep society much more closed than it should be. This applies to hairdressers and outdoor sports. We have to turn around, we have to open up our society and show confidence in the Danes. And if the government then wants to shut something down, it is up to the government to prove that it is necessary. Because when we got the figures, it turned out that it was not of any significance whether retail shops were closed down. It turned out that outdoor sports were of little importance. And I don't think the same thing's gonna show up when we get to look at the hairdressers. 'Cause there weren't any major infection chains in the fall. The hairdressers were really good at handling this. I think that when we finally get the figures from the government, we will see that opening up the hairdressers is not going to have any significant and significant significance, which clearly underlines that it was a mistake to shut down the hairdressers and the liberal professions. So we hope that the government will start listening to business, listen to citizens and listen to new citizens about this, and then let us open up society again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316152452	Thank you. There is one brief comment. It's from sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316152456	That, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen says whether the hairdressers and the small self-employed are quite fine, and we agree on that, and that will be corrected here. I have also written a great deal with some people who have approached me about this. But Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen did not mention most of the legislation, namely about those who are at risk; those who are at risk of infection; those who have poor immune systems and who could be infected if they went to work or those who had children at home and who were exposed to infection. That part mentioned Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen didn't say a word. I just want to hear what New Citizens say to the group that this bill was originally intended for, and that is an extension of previous arrangements for those who are at risk. For the hairdresser and the small self-employed, we are quite comfortable with this, and we in the Danish People's Party also think it is very good. I just need to hear what New Citizens say to those who are at risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316152600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316152601	I hope that the Danish People's Party has the same attitude as New Citizens about it, so that it is good that we help them. We also praised the proposal when it first appeared when we also voted in favour, and we are also voting in favour of it this time. We think it is excellent that we are helping those people who are in a difficult situation with spouses or others who have these problems. So we are absolutely in favour of that, and we also supported it when it was there for the first time, and indeed it was a long time ago that we voted through it for the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316152629	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316152630	That is quite fine, because the Danish People's Party has also supported this extension, and that is also what I said from the platform. But I just missed that sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen also mentioned those in the risk group. It's quite fine to talk about the hairdressers, and it might as well have been made in an independent bill... I shouldn't be able to say that... but I just missed the fact that it was mentioned that this was sort of a law that was made for the benefit of the risk groups. We have then brought in the hairdressers and it is very important that they have an extension scheme. That's just what I should have found out, and I've got it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316152704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316152705	Yes, it would certainly be strange if, when we supported the first law to help people who were at risk, we suddenly said that now we would not help them. That would be a little strange. So, of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316152722	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance, so we go ahead and give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316152730	Thank you for that, and thank you also for the comments made by the rapporteurs. I would also like to start by signing for Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's words in his rapporteur's speech and, in fact, all the thanks for the cooperation that I think we have had in the field of employment widely between all parties throughout this long, grueling global pandemic. I think that what we should be discussing today is just one of a great many legislative proposals and solutions that we have found along the way ever since the very first decision to give, namely as Mr. Bent Bøgsted mentioned earlier, vulnerable persons in the risk group access to sickness benefit. That, of course, is what we must extend today. So I would just like to start by thanking all the party rapporteurs for the solution-oriented approach to these many, many difficult challenges that, not least, the employment area has experienced in this global pandemic. For everyone knows that although the vaccine rollout is in full swing, we are, of course, still in a situation where corona has a great influence on the everyday lives of many Danes and, as several have already mentioned, we have to admit that the pandemic already has and will have consequences for both employees and self-employed and employers up to the summer. With the bill we are dealing with today, we propose to extend three schemes in the field of the Ministry of Employment, which would otherwise expire on 31 March, while at the same time relaxing the employment requirement for self-employed persons' entitlement to sickness and maternity benefits for a period of time. The proposal extends the right to sickness benefit for both people at increased risk and their relatives in the household. We are also prolonging the scheme to ensure that parents who cannot work from home can receive maternity benefit the days when they have to take care of their child at home because of corona. In addition, I propose that the suspension of the employer's period be extended so that it can continue to help mitigate the financial consequences for employers who have employees affected by the corona virus. All of these three schemes will be extended in their present form until 30 June 2021. When it became necessary in December for us to close down the country once again, it meant, among other things, that there were a number of less self-employed workers who had to shut down their business temporarily, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen also mentioned. This unfortunately means that some of these self-employed people are unable to meet the employment requirement for entitlement to sickness and maternity benefits, since they have not been active in their activities for good reasons in the last few days. Therefore, it is also part of the proposal that, when assessing whether the requirement is met, the period from 1 December 2020 to 30 April 2021 can be totally or partially disregarded. In this way, we will ensure that there are no self-employed people who, because of decommissioning, are not supported if they are going on maternity leave or if they become ill. I am absolutely convinced that the extension of these arrangements and the relaxation of the employment requirement will help to create the necessary security for both employees, self-employed people and employers in the coming months. I still think this is important and I very much welcome the broad political support that has been expressed from the platform here today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316153121	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316153143	The debate is open and we are giving the floor first to the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316153201	Thank you. This bill proposes to implement the necessary changes in Danish law so that a number of new EU acts that will strengthen external border controls in the Schengen area can be implemented in Danish legislation. For persons from visa-free third countries, the bill will in future require them to be in possession of an electronic travel authorisation before they arrive in Denmark. For those of us who have been in the United States, the new electronic travel authorisation reminds us of the US ESTA system. In addition, the draft law introduces an entry and exit system which requires third-country nationals to record fingerprints and facial photos when entering the EU. This will strengthen controls on people trying to enter the EU with false travel documents, and the EES will apply to both visa-free and visa-free persons outside the EU and Schengen. Finally, the draft law will have to record all return decisions in the Schengen Information System. In addition, more authorities will have access to this system than is currently the case. In the social democracy, we believe that it is sensible to strengthen control of the EU's external borders. We are living at a time when we have massive problems with illegal immigration, Islamic terror and cross-border crime. This requires strict control of people entering Europe. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316153328	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316153344	Thank you for the floor. The aim of L 185 is to implement the necessary amendments to the Aliens Act with a view to the implementation by Denmark of a series of regulations adopted by the European Parliament allowing the introduction of several new common European IT systems to control citizens outside the EU and Schengen. This is a proposal that we welcome. Everyone in this Chamber has probably tried ESTA, the visa system in the United States. It is a really smart system that investigates and pre-authorises people before they enter the United States. The new ETIAS system is to compare with the American system. It is a system which means that authorities will have access to the information they have not been aware of until the people were actually at the border. It is very important that we look after our country and therefore it makes good sense to have a system similar to that of the US in Schengen cooperation. Given the urgent problems arising from international crime, particularly terrorism and organised crime, it makes very good sense for us to have an EU system that we have together. It provides an opportunity to investigate and pre-authorise persons before entering an EU country. Schengen cooperation is sensible in a great many areas, and we also need to strengthen it, and we do so with this legislative proposal. This gives the police and immigration authorities a more effective tool to address illegal migration, terrorism and other crime. We in the Left believe that close cooperation in the European Union and the Schengen countries is important in the fight against criminals, and that is why we are pleased that we now have a system to help keep track of the EU's external borders and the problems that occur within the internal borders. To this end, it is important that we keep in mind that criminals become better and better at cheating on their travel documents. It requires that we also have better and more effective systems for catching people trying to enter through false travel documents. That is why we are also pleased that it is now becoming harder for criminals to cheat on entry to Denmark. Everything else equal means, among other things, that, hopefully, there will be more control over illegal migration and criminals, not only in Denmark, but also in the rest of Europe. We can, of course, support this in the Left, and we look forward to having better opportunities to apprehend people who have nothing to do within the Schengen borders and show them out of the area again. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316153623	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316153644	Thank you, President. Very bad can be said about the European Union in general and, as such, also about the Schengen system, among other things. The fact that it is, after all, the Schengen system which prohibits us from having national border controls, or the fact that, since Poul Nyrup Rasmussen as Prime Minister invited us in, the Schengen system has been notoriously useless as a border guard, that is to say, as regards what is called the external border, what in the ideal world, which is typical of the desk generals in Brussels, should have been a good alternative to national border controls. It must be said that it has not been. I cannot recall any time in the history of Europe when there has been such easy access to the countries of the European Union and therefore also to Denmark for people who have no legal right; at least we have to go back quite a long way. That is why it is on such a rather bitter-sweet background that we are standing here today, in other words because we are trying to patch up the system that Denmark should never have been part of. We in the Danish People's Party believe that guarding our borders as a nation is not just a practical measure, but something quite fundamental in terms of a country's self-understanding and the ability of a country to decide for itself who should have legal access or not have legal access. So basically we have a very sceptical approach to the Schengen system. One can then choose whether one should have the basic approach to such a legislative proposal as we are dealing with here today or the pragmatic one. The person with the basic approach will say that since the Schengen system in all its basic substance is a bad thing, something that does not serve Denmark well, well then we will not know at all; then, as politicians, we will have clean hands and we will not accept patchy solutions. Of course, the pragmatic person will say that for inscrutable reasons a majority of the Folketing has corrupted the country in many areas, yet it is still our humble task and duty to see whether we can correct things just a little bit. For 25 years we in the Danish People's Party have been engaged in being the second of the two people. It is easy enough to stand in a corner screaming and screaming and never to make things right unless, in some hypothetical way, you would get 50 per cent yourself. of the votes. Therefore, it is about going in and pulling things in the right direction. And precisely in this area, the Danish People's Party has actually participated. Sir. Anders Vistisen, as a Member of the European Parliament, was at the time shadow rapporteur for the EES regulation, as was our current Member of the European Parliament, Mr. Peter Kofod, is working intensively on various other current reports in Parliament to improve the Schengen system. It is therefore with the same approach that I had and we have in the European Parliament that the Danish People's Party also chooses today to go to this bill: that it is, of course, something that tries to repair a bleeding leg fracture, perhaps with a bandage we are hoping for something else, but yet it is an improvement compared to what is happening today. It is basically quite incomprehensible that countries should be able to give up their national border controls in such a way as to have external border controls where such basic information is not managed when people from third countries try to enter: names, travel documents, fingerprints, photos, etc. etc. But this has been the case because the European Union is to a large extent a castle of air operating from ideology and preconceptions rather than the sometimes rather unpleasant world of reality. This bill does so little to correct the traitors, which is why we can support it in the Danish People's Party. But it should not be understood as a embrace of the Schengen system or as any belief that this solves the problems. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316154102	Thank you. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. We can move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316154114	Thank you. We are now discussing L 185, which in ordinary human language implements some EU agreements to extend the border agreements that Denmark has with the EU. And if I am going to describe what that enlargement is about, then I must move on to a few concepts which are a little less human language. Basically, the agreement is about making it easier to ensure that migration into the EU is regular migration and not irregular migration, so that you know who is entering the EU Member States and why they are doing so; that they have a good reason for doing so. This is important because irregular migration is the cause of much suffering, of exploitation of people, of trafficking in human beings and of people being lost in the system and, ultimately, of their search for brighter horizons becoming a hell. Therefore, one of the many steps on the path towards a fairer system for dealing with migration and asylum is that there is easy and equal access to regular migration and that we get control of irregular migration. That is why the SF is also in favour of the bill here. When people come here to offer their labour in orderly conditions, it strengthens Europe just as we have a responsibility to accept people who come to seek asylum. That is why we all have an interest in knowing who is troops at the border and why they are doing it. And then there is a very special gain, namely that it can make life miserable for smugglers and others who speculate in human misfortune. For these reasons, it is good to establish closer cooperation between authorities, industry and other actors on how migration to Europe should take place. The SF can therefore support the draft law as a starting point. However, we have a few concerns and questions which will be followed up in the work of the committee. First of all, there is a data security perspective in the proposal here, and we will follow up on whether the comments of the Data Protection Agency have been implemented satisfactorily in the proposal. Secondly, it is very important for us in the SF that the legal certainty of refugees is central to the asylum and migration system, which is why we also lack input from some of the actors who normally comment on legislative proposals like this. It may be that you have to interpret their absence as having no comments. That is probably what is the case, but we will hear them anyway in order to have that certainty. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316154341	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we can move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316154353	Thank you for the floor. The draft law here is about the implementation of a number of regulations in the Schengen area and with effect from the Aliens Act. The focus is on strengthening the EU's external borders, and this must be done precisely through pan-European solutions like this, and this clearly shows that pan-European solutions are the way forward. The regulations are subject to Danish legal reservation and Denmark therefore did not participate in the Council's adoption of the regulations and the regulations are neither binding nor applicable in Denmark. However, as the regulations represent an extension of the Schengen acquis, Denmark could decide within 6 months of the Council's adoption of the regulations whether Denmark would transpose them into Danish law on an intergovernmental basis, and this gave the Folketing in 2018-19 through a series of resolutions its consent to, and the Radical Left also then voted in favour of all three resolutions. This is primarily about the ETIAS Regulation, which establishes a European system for travel information and travel authorisation for third-country nationals who do not require a visa when crossing the external borders; it is the EES Regulation that establishes an entry and exit system that replaces the more manual travel documents and moves on to more electronic registration in a proper system; and then there are SIS regulations that allow the immigration, customs, police and judicial authorities of the EU and Schengen countries to search for electronic alerts, so that there is a better basis for everything from return decisions to seeing unknown perpetrators with complete or incomplete fingerprints or handprints, so that you have a system to look at it together, and therefore there will also be more access to it than today. In this way, therefore, the regulations strengthen the external borders, and the Radical Left supports this, because these are the prerequisites for the open internal borders. However, the Data Protection Agency has raised a number of issues which we will examine in committee. The Radical Left therefore welcomes the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316154633	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316154649	There are both the advantages and disadvantages of Schengen cooperation. And the fact that there are no internal borders is of course an advantage in some situations. However, the disadvantages of cooperation are also very noticeable, and the various regulations we are discussing today have, in different ways, some effect on several different areas which we in the Enhedslisten are not so happy about. We have dealt with the individual regulations in the past as government resolutions, and it may not come as a great surprise when I now criticise the individual elements, because that is exactly the same criticism that we had in 2018 and 2019. In relation to the regulation on visas, which is very similar to the United States system, in which visa-free foreigners must be pre-approved and checked, I think that the restrictive visa policy that we already have today is changing to the worse. In line with both the Left and the Green Group in the European Parliament, we are concerned about legal certainty in relation to the exchange of sensitive personal data that could potentially affect completely innocent people. In relation to the EES Regulation, the large-scale recording equipment being introduced is problematic. It is a recording device with the creation of individual files and the recording of photos and fingerprints, etc. at the time of entry. The information shall be stored for five years for persons who have exceeded their period of leave and for three years for other persons. This will, of course, allow the authorities to better monitor who is travelling in and out of Schengen. And although many of the recent terrorist attacks in Europe have been committed by people born and raised in Europe, it is clear, of course, that stronger control can also have a preventive effect. At the same time, it is essential that in the fight against terrorism and crime, we do not throw down fundamental democratic rights, which we want to preserve those we are defending in the fight against terrorism with the bathing water. For Enhedslisten, it is therefore essential that we strike a good balance between the legal certainty of the individual and the security of the state. We don't think that's the case in this bill. It is also worrying that the bill incorporates these regulations in a way in which future changes in them automatically apply in Denmark and therefore are not due to be re-examined in the Folketing. At the same time, we also have it in the Enhedslisten that Schengen cooperation is the foundation of Fortress Europe and thus cooperation on the external borders of the European Union. And it can be said that on a very large number of points this is not at all related to what we have often discussed here. Of course, I am thinking particularly of Frontex, which has repeatedly committed serious violations of human rights. Most recently, we've seen these pushbacks from the EU's external borders. That means, overall, that if I am to use the definition that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt used before, so we are on the very principle side and cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316155003	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316155014	Thank you, President. This proposal, as several of the previous rapporteurs, not all of them, have said, will strengthen the external borders of the Schengen area. Several people have compared this system to the American ESTA system, where you have to search in advance. And I think that is actually a very sensible system. I actually think I am one of the few, if not the only, in this Chamber who has experienced what happens in the United States, if that is the case that you do not have your paperwork in order. Fifteen years ago, I flew to the United States and I didn't have my paperwork in order, and I can tell you that this is an effective system. I was put on the same plane I had landed with, escorted by armed police, which caused people who were boarding to look at me a little strangely and to put on the plane and then flown back to where I came from. And that's exactly what we want with this system... if that's how you fly in, land in Europe and don't have your paperwork in order, then you have to fly back to where you come from. I can then say hello and say that fortunately the plane was overbooked, so I came back to business class it was a bit of a pleasure. In addition, this system will record fingerprints and other things from third-country nationals. It will strengthen cooperation on repatriation and will, on the whole, strengthen Europe's external borders. So Conservatives can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316155141	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316155151	It was the good President Ronald Reagan who said that a country that has no control over its borders is not a country. In New Citizens we believe that we should have border controls in Denmark, we believe that we should have border controls, we should have control over who enters our territory. That is in principle for us. We are also very critical of how Schengen has worked so far, and we do not believe that it has so far proved to be a safeguard against bringing people to Europe that we do not want to be here. Until we have a border control in Denmark that we want, we also have an obligation to secure the Danish citizens who are here, and that is why we see this as a potential improvement in relation to the existing system, and therefore we can also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316155245	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I don't see anyone from the Liberal Alliance, so we move on to the Foreign Affairs and Integration Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316155257	Thank you to all the parties for receiving the bill. I am, of course, pleased to note that there is broad support for the draft law. I fully acknowledge, of course, that this is a reasonably technically difficult legislative proposal, which may not seem to relate to our everyday life at first sight. However, the proposed changes are necessary for us in Denmark to be able to use the new EU systems, such as: to strengthen control at our external borders and, in addition, to increase security within the European Union, so that is why the draft law has a great deal to do with our everyday life. I will not go through the bill in detail here from the platform, but just say that the bill has as its fundamental purpose to ensure that Danish legislation is ready for these new systems to be put into operation. The bill states in the Aliens Act that a number of these EU regulations apply in Denmark. The draft law here thus states in the Aliens Act that, in order to be allowed to enter Denmark, you must have an ETIAS travel authorisation if you belong to a group of persons covered by the regulation. It is about people from the visa-free third countries. For this reason, if you are still staying in Denmark without a valid travel authorisation, it will also be punishable as an illegal stay. In other words, the new system makes an ex ante assessment of the group of people who have so far been able to arrive, for example. Kastrup airport without any prior screening by the authorities. The fact that those people must now have a travel authorisation to be shown at border controls helps us to get better control of who is entering Denmark and the rest of the Schengen area. And it is of great benefit to all of us. The new rules do not change the fact that this group of people will continue to have to pass the regular border controls on arrival. The travel permit is therefore not a definitive undertaking to enter Denmark and the rest of the Schengen area. It is also introduced into the Aliens Act that it is a condition for third-country nationals to be able to enter Denmark from a country outside the EU and Schengen area to register with fingerprints and facial photos in a new digital entry and exit system, which is called the EES. The digital registrations also mean that we say goodbye to the manual passamplings we know today. The new immigration and exit system will strengthen the quality of border controls because each border guard will have another tool to identify a person who does not have pure flour in the bag but who is trying to enter the Schengen area wrongly. And we must also remember that Denmark also has external Schengen borders, for example. in our airports and ports. It is therefore a great gain that we now have a better opportunity to keep an eye on the people we want to keep out of Denmark. In addition, the draft law makes a number of more technical changes as a result of the new regulations on the Schengen Information System, which include: requires the registration of all return decisions. Thus, in the updated system, more new types of data on alerts will need to be added in the future, and more authorities will have access to the system. With the efficient and extended use of the Schengen Information System, Denmark and the other Schengen countries strengthen external border control and thus the possibility of meeting security and migration challenges within the European Union. Finally, I would just like to thank you for the debate on the various parts of the legislative proposal. Several rapporteurs have mentioned that in some resolutions a few years ago Parliament has dealt with some of the same issues that we are talking about today. However, I have noted, as I have said, that there still seems to be broad support for the ideas behind this bill. I look forward to further consideration and, of course, I am available for further questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316155702	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316155721	The debate is open, and we shall first give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316155745	Thank you. Then I guess there was no reason for me to blow off the platform until I left it. However, I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for presenting this resolution, which I think raises an important question: how best to ensure against the harmful effects of external forces on the way Islam is cultivated in Denmark by the minority of our fellow citizens who are Muslims. It is an issue which has in fact been invading most Western European societies for a long time, but which has been limited, I think, by an unholy alliance of well-intentioned explanations, out-of-date principle-riders and the fear of being called anti-Muslim and racist. Over the years, too much has been swept under the rug of prayer in the attempt to be politically correct, and many politicians have denied the obvious for fear of being left out of the good company. We must recognise that we have been blind to the fact that in some cases mosques in Denmark can be used to spread hatred against our country and our values and to continue the homeland's conflicts on Danish soil. That blindness has also been in my own party, and that situation is, of course, totally untenable. It is not sustainable either for the cohesion of society or for the many, many Muslims who profess democracy, human rights and Danish society. I think we're in the middle of a tough fight. I think we're actually in the middle of a tough fight. And I'm pretty convinced it's gonna take time. But the government also believes that this is a necessary showdown and that it is important that we do it thoroughly, that we do it carefully and that we do it on a legally viable basis. We therefore believe that the resolution we are debating today is not the right way to do it. Today's concrete proposal is about Turkey and Diyanet. It has to be said straight away that it is, of course, totally unacceptable if citizens in Denmark are to be declared to the authorities of other countries. If you experience it as a citizen, I would urge you to report it to the police. It must never be the case that religion is abused to cover up crimes. Danish legislation must be respected in Denmark, and I know that the Foreign Minister, both in the Folketing and also in the Turkish Government, has made this crystal clear. Of course, this also applies to Diyanet. We need to abandon the naivety and fear of touch that makes it necessary to say it at all and to have to have the debate here today. We need to have a better understanding of what is going on in mosques in Denmark, especially if we suspect that things are going on that are contrary to democracy and our fundamental freedoms and human rights. The mosques must be opened to the outside world's eyes. It is also my clear conviction that it will benefit the Muslims who live in Denmark and live a life in accordance with Danish values and who will not be maintained in homeland conflicts or narrow-minded views of gender and democracy. Danish Muslims should not go to Friday prayers in mosques built and funded in the name of extreme Islamism. It is fine to turn to Mecca when you have to pray, but the government will go very far to prevent you from turning away from Denmark at the same time. As I said, this must be done on legally viable grounds, and we have actually taken the first steps together. A broad majority here in the Danish Parliament has adopted a law banning the reception of anti-democratic donations a few days ago. That law introduces a ban on receiving donations from persons who oppose or undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights. The prohibition may include, inter alia: include foreign government authorities and state-controlled organisations. The law is a good step in the right direction and can, among other things, be. help to get mosques wrenched out of the grip of dark forces. It will be a huge gain for Danish society every time such an anti-democratic donation is prevented. Of course, the law cannot stand alone. I am therefore pleased that the Danish Parliament has shown itself ready to give the government new tools where it is necessary, and it will unfortunately not be the last time that the government will have to ask the Danish Parliament to give the authorities more opportunities to take better care of Denmark. As I said, this showdown is gonna take time, and we can't do it alone. The strongest allies we can have are the many Muslims in Denmark, including Muslims with Turkish background, who have embraced values such as democracy, equality and freedom of expression. For all things in the world, we must not offend them, they are our fellow citizens, and, as I said, they are our strongest and most important allies. We stand together to reject the destructive idea that many originally fled or emigrated from, and it is therefore crucial that one can of course live and believe in Denmark as a Muslim that one can participate in the Friday prayer in the mosque as long as one adheres to and supports the rules that apply in Denmark. So the question is not how Denmark can adapt to Islam. The task is for Islam to adapt to Denmark. And I believe that we are in the middle of this task in these years, and it is crucial for the future of our country that it is handled properly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160303	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160306	It was a very elegant way of saying that one cannot support the motion for a resolution, I think, at least. In any case, I would urge you to make it clear if the whole analysis that the Minister has expressed to share with us in the Danish People's Party in relation to the problem here also results in a willingness to vote in favour of this proposal. But what I really want to ask is what the minister says about the goal being to create a kind of Danish Islam, that is, a framework in which Islam can, like it, become part of Danish society. Then one can be tempted to ask whether the Minister can find any Western society at all, where it has succeeded and where one does not experience the problems of Islam that we have in Denmark in multiple areas, but where Islam as a political ideology and religion has unproblematicly gained ground in the secular Christian world. Is there a country that the Minister has as inspiration?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160414	Thank you to the questioner. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160417	I would like to repeat what I said in the speech, namely that we will not be supporting this resolution. Can I mention a country? The short answer is 'no' and it is incredibly sad, but it is a task that many Western European societies have to face. Some, I think, are faced with a greater task than the rest of us, because immigration has been greater and because the way to deal with it has been worse, but everyone has the same task. Fortunately, we are not alone in stating that we are dealing with this task, nor are we alone in dealing with it. On the contrary, we stand with a lot of other Western European countries with some of the basic same questions: who is funding Islam in the countries? Who educates imams in the countries? How to take action against social control? How can we prevent parallel societies from building up? The language is slightly different, depending on which country you are in, but I think it is very clear that the analysis in France, Austria, Germany, the Netherlands and, as such, our neighbouring Sweden and Norway are becoming more and more similar, and that makes me confident after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160523	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160526	Thank you, President. I am pleased that we agree that Islam has not gained ground in a sensible way in any Western European country. So that's also where we share the analysis. So it is a question of what we are doing about it, and it has to be said that it is a little bit disconcerting when the government is not helping to prevent something that is so openly reprehensible as the fact that an increasingly obvious totalitarian government in Turkey is engaging in imam and mosque activity in Denmark. Why is it that you are not willing to take that step?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160559	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160601	Well, there is no doubt that, as a government, we are generally concerned about Turkey's move away from Europe and the fundamental values on which Europe is founded. But I also think it would be wise to remember that, although there may be a move away from traditional secularism that we know from Turkey, at the same time there are many Turkish communities which are critical of that development, and that is why I think it is important that we do not have too much generalisation and that we stick to the fact that there is another Turkey as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160636	The next brief remark goes to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160640	Since the government cannot support this very splendid proposal, could the Minister not explain what the government is going to do to solve this problem in concrete terms? Not the general problem, but the problem of Turkey running mosques in this way and influencing politically and using the mosques as a political platform in Denmark? So what are we going to do in concrete terms to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160706	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160708	As I also mentioned in the speech: To the extent that some believe that espionage is being carried out from foreign intelligence services or foreign governments on Danish soil, it is criminal; then we call on the police to report it. If there are any foreign preachers who have come to Denmark on the rules we have in the Aliens Act, that one can come here as a religious preacher who does not meet the conditions one has to meet, for example. If they abuse that residence permit, then it has to have consequences for them to have that residence permit. By the way, we have just adopted a legislative proposal to prevent anti-democratic donations. I don't think we're sitting on our hands. I believe that we have taken concrete steps to ensure that religion in Denmark, including Islam, should take place under democratic conditions and should not be abused to undermine democracy or fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160802	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160804	Then I have to ask whether the legislation that has just been adopted and to which the Minister refers will prevent it from doing so. Otherwise, it is not a solution to the specific problem that is being posed here. In my opinion, this will not solve it unless Turkey and Erdogan are defined as anti-democratic. I haven't heard the government do that yet. So what are we going to do in concrete terms to solve the problem, which is a real problem and which the Minister also recognises is a real problem: that Turkey conducts policy on Danish soil via the mosques? What practical steps will be taken to resolve this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160841	It is true that we have adopted this bill now, which allows the Minister for Foreign Affairs to put both state authorities, individuals and organisations on a list from which donations are then prohibited. If I point out here from the platform to a specific state authority or to a specific individual and say that I think they should be on the list, then I would make all the alien authorities, who would otherwise be responsible for this procedure, intolerable. That is why I will do everything I can not to stand here from the platform. But the very purpose of the law is to ensure that funds from undemocratic forces do not come in and finance, among other things. religion in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160916	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next one is sir. Rasmus Stoklund as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316160930	Thank you. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes to stop the Turkish Government's influence on the spread of mosques and Islam in Denmark through the financing or management of mosques and cultural houses in Denmark by the Turkish Ministry of Religion. In the Social Democratic Party, we, like the Danish People's Party, believe that it is important to prevent negative external influences. If someone indicates Danish citizens to, for example, Turkey's embassy in Denmark, it is of course something that should be a matter for the police to report to. In addition, the Secretary of State can be involved. This has been the case in the past, when problems have been raised with the Turkish Government, and these have been issues of the kind mentioned in the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party. In the Social Democratic Party we are very concerned about fighting political Islam and other anti-democratic movements in Denmark, and last week we adopted a bill jointly in this Chamber to prevent anti-democratic donations from, among other things. Foreign government authorities and state-controlled organisations. We do not believe that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party is the right way to prevent negative external influences. When it comes to major foreign policy issues, it is important that things are done in a well thought out way which does not lead to unnecessarily negative consequences for Denmark. For example, we have a great interest in keeping down the influx of asylum seekers and migrants, and we must avoid a situation such as the one we saw in 2015 when asylum seekers went on Danish motorways and where the number of asylum seekers exploded. Cooperation between the European Union and Turkey is crucial here. That is why the Social Democrats do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161128	Thank you. There are several brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161134	That's a very, very interesting reasoning, sir. Rasmus Stoklund expresses here in the end. You will not intervene against Erdogan in Turkey directly governing, controlling 30 mosques in Denmark, using them as parallel ambassadors to spy on resident Turks etc. etc. because it is afraid that it will have a consequence in keeping refugees out of Europe, that is to say the agreement that has been reached with Turkey. It is, of course, a policy that is unmistakably reminiscent of something we have seen before. It is simply governed by fear of what Erdogan can do if you do not let him be a puppet leader for the mosques here in Denmark. - Sir... Rasmus Stoklund does not see that it is not exactly a reassuring scenario from a government party that, for fear of such an autocrat as we are dealing with here, we are being subdued?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161236	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161239	Yes, I could certainly see that if I accepted the strawman that I think Mr. Morten Messerschmidt built up next to me. But I don't, because there aren't any strawmen here. The fact is that this is not about fear or about the fact that we will not intervene. I also said in my rapporteur's speech that if there are irregularities, in other words if there are people who are being reported to an intelligence service or anything else, it must be reported to the police, and in addition, together, a large community here in Parliament, last week we adopted a bill against anti-democratic donations for religious activities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161320	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161323	Then I don't know how the last thing, sir. Rasmus Stoklund said in his speech should be understood. But peace be to it. Let us then just consider that in 1989 there were 10 Turkish imams released in Denmark. In 2006 there were 21 imams, and in 2019 29 mosques in Denmark had an imam broadcast from Turkey. It is a development that has taken place through the last 30 years and which I am sure Mr. Rasmus Stoklund like I find disturbing. But what is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's answer to that problem, if not Mr. Rasmus Stoklund will vote in favour of our proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161358	First of all, I would like to say that if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt did not think I had enough to reply to the last part of the previous, so I would say that our argument is precisely that we think that we should keep the line to Turkey warm and have a relationship with them, instead of turning completely away from Europe and not want to talk to Europe anymore, for example. then try to push Europe by opening up a new stream of asylum and migration towards Europe. Our answer is one of these. this bill we have jointly adopted against anti-democratic donations, if appropriate, and, in addition, there is other legislation, and in the end there may be cases where this is a matter for the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161437	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161440	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm gonna follow up on sir. Morten Messerschmidt's question in relation to the imam agreement between Denmark and Turkey. In other words, instead of banning everything from a ministry that, if you go back in time, you might even see once tried to be secular, but far from it today, we think you should look specifically at the Imam Agreement. I understand that the Minister has said in the past that we should perhaps look at it, because, as Mr. Mr Messerschmidt says that there are, I believe, 30 state-funded people from Turkey who come to Denmark every year and preach a political line from Turkey. So is the Social Democratic Party willing to look at that agreement and see if it can actually exist in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161520	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161522	Well, I don't have any pre-conditions for going into that. I also have some doubts as to whether it does not go a little across ministries, but what I would like to say is that, of course, there must be arranged conditions around people who come and preach in Denmark. That is why we have a list of hate preachers, which is why we have legislation about religions, about what to do and what not to do, and that is why we now have this bill we have just adopted on anti-democratic donations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161548	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161550	The bill on donations and hate preachers is really fine, but there is a specific agreement about imams that can come to Denmark from Turkey, and I know it is the only agreement Denmark has with any country in the world that there can be 30 state-funded imams to Denmark every year. So it is just a call to the rapporteur that I think it is something we should sit down and look at. I know that the Minister has mentioned it in the past and it will deal very much with a large part of the problems actually described in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161621	For my sake, we can easily read out that agreement, because I do not have enough knowledge to be able to comment on it. Now that is not what is in the motion for a resolution today, so it is not this agreement that we should be discussing there. But it is always good to become wiser, and it may well be that there are already some committee replies or other that I can read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161641	Thank you. The next brief remark comes from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161645	Thank you very much. The rapporteur said that we agreed with the intentions of the resolution, but that we could not support the concrete proposal and the tools in it. Then I would like to ask: what are these specific tools, i.e. the tools that are presented in this motion for a resolution with which we do not agree and which make it impossible to vote for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161703	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161705	Well, it is treating one country differently than we generally treat other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161711	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161714	However, there are a large number of areas where we treat countries differently: visa rules, trade agreements, and there can be anything else. This proposal does not, of course, impose a specific way of doing it. It is intended that the government should stop that influence. It is not said that it should be done in a certain way; it is said that this must be stopped. That is why I have a problem with seeing what concrete steps are being taken in the proposal, which one does not like if one agrees with the intention that we should stop Erdogan's influence in terms of conducting politics on Danish soil via the mosques.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161752	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161754	But now it is not my job to be a judicial authority or executive authority for that matter, and that is why I think we should try to give the bill on anti-democratic donations that we have adopted a chance. I also think that when you compare it with, for example. the trade agreement, then there is a big difference between making positive cooperation with another country and then adopting legislation here in the Folketing, which explicitly targets only one particular country. That is not how we conduct foreign policy in Denmark. We have certainly not done so in the past, and I do not think we should begin to do so today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161824	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mads Birds from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316161851	Thank you for the floor. In the Left we share the ambition that the authorities of foreign powers should not, of course, engage in political and religious propaganda in Denmark. Anti-democratic forces should not be allowed to take root here. On the other hand, I also have all this concern about what we have experienced. It is strange to think that, in recent times, Turkey has gone from Atatürk's legacy to something that we find difficult to recognise today, and I am glad that we do not share the union with them, for example. Turkey should not be given the opportunity to instruct imams to preach national and political messages in Danish mosques or to spy and obtain information about resident Danes and Turks to Turkish authorities. Recently, in this Parliament, we voted in favour of the L 81 bill, which takes action against anti-democratic donations from foreign powers, and part of the efforts in those negotiations were precisely about getting this stuff contained. In future, therefore, both people, organisations and authorities can end up on the so-called ban list, and this is very important, especially because there is something problematic about placing entire countries on the list; the workflow is that you have to take imam for imam, perhaps mosques, and do it that way. That bill is a step in the right direction in our fight against political Islam in Denmark, which is a huge challenge. We do not really know whether the law will solve all the problems. I can well imagine that we will have to evaluate it to see if it hits well enough, if we get enough on that list. But our expectation is that to the extent that there are problems with the Turkish mosques in Denmark, and we know that there are, the Ministry will look at the Turkish mosques in Denmark to see if they should be closed down. If this shows that there is a problem, they must, of course, be on the list of prohibitions. Countries such as Turkey must not be able to exert influence in Denmark through donations, thereby undermining a free democratic society, and we must help each other to put an end to this as far as it takes place. We must, of course, do this in a way that is effective and that is legally feasible and that does not conflict with the ties that we have with the international cooperation agreements we have. We do not want to limit focus to a single country. We believe that action should be taken against anti-democratic influence in Denmark, regardless of which country it comes from. That is why I am so pleased with L 81, even though I do not quite know yet whether the law is working as it was intended, since we have not yet applied it and during the course of the negotiations it became so clear that precisely banning this type of activity is difficult. We believe that the banning list is a legally viable tool that places the same criteria on authorities, organisations and people, wherever they are in the world. We hope that the banning list will prove to be working. We are very willing to look at that work again. We are interested in taking action against political and religious effects on Danish society in general, not just against a single country. We must do so in a way that keeps legal belts and that effectively does away with the problem. For these reasons we cannot support the motion for a resolution, although we have every sympathy for the intention behind this particular proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316162249	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316162255	I have to admit that I find it a little sad to see how the Left and apparently other parties have been totally blinded to the democratic situation, because is it really enough to contain the damage that Islam out of Erdogan Turkey can have on Denmark? I must remind you, sir. Mads Birded that we are talking about the man who, as mayor of Constantinople, said: "The minates are our bayonets, the domes our helmets and the mosques our barracks, the believers our soldiers. ▪ Is Mr. Mads Fuglede really so naive I allow myself to use that expression to believe that a single tool that should seek to contain undemocratic transfers to Danish mosques can slow down such a type as President Erdogan?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316162345	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316162348	I don't need to be smart about how naive I am. Others have to do that. But I am quite convinced that if we are to deal with this type of activity, which is a huge problem, we have to do it in a way that actually works, and we have an intention to make this work. It is legally untenable to put an entire country on such a list, but we must take that mosque for mosque and case by case and then see to it that what is contrary to the intentions of the law that the Danish People's Party itself has been involved in negotiating, namely L 81.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316162430	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316162433	Sir. Mads Birded and I have both grown up during the Cold War, so let us try to draw that parallel, because I remember that there were quite firm strikes against the Soviet Union's attempts to run ideological hatcheries in the Western world. There were no fine sensations back then. There you would like to say no, because there you were in a quite obvious conflict. Why is it, and it is not only the Left, but all the traditional old parties that have become so indulgent with Islam that we are in an probably even worse conflict with it than we were with the Soviet Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316162510	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316162511	What worked when a strategy was drawn up for the Soviet Union's influence activity in the West was of course an international cooperation in which we stood together, had allies and agreed rules cross-cutting, and we made a consistent boycott of what came from there, and we made a containment strategy that went back a long way. I think that was a very sensible strategy at the time. It may also prove necessary to do so here, but there we are not yet in relation to Turkey, and if we are to do so, we must do so within the framework of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316162551	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316162613	Thank you, President. Two years ago, Professor Lene published Kühle and Cand. mag. Malik Larsen's book "Danmarks Moskéer. " It appeared at Aarhus University and gave a gloomy insight into how the development in Denmark in relation to Islam's spread has been over the past decades. In 1989 there were 10 released Turkish imams in Denmark, in 2006 21 and in 2019, when the book was published, 29 mosques in Denmark had an imam released from Turkey. There you can think that it is perhaps very practical that you can get others to bear your expenses in this way. But if, at the same time, we have followed the political developments in Turkey, particularly in relation to President Erdogan and how there is an obvious fusion between political Islam and Erdogan's government, then that should make all the alarm bells ring. Some of what the two authors quote in the book is from Professor Samin Akgönül, who is a researcher at Diyanet at the University of Strasbourg, and who tells of how almost the same Diyanet sermon is held in all the mosques throughout Europe, a sermon which is therefore sent out from Turkey and which is then held around the various mosques, which, as satellites, are spread throughout the European continent. At the same time as there is a violent political imprint on Turkey of what is said in the Danish mosques or rather the mosques, which are located in Denmark, there is a violent espionage activity on the part of the mosques, where they broadcast imams both spying against Turks living in Denmark, but also against Danes and against other activities and report back to the Turkish Ministry of Religion. We in the Danish People's Party will have put an effective end to this. As I mentioned to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Mads Birded, we see a direct parallel between what we face with, among other things. Turkey and the way President Erdogan acts and what we experienced in Denmark in the 1970s and 1980s with a strong counter-pole in the Soviet Union, which tried to plant its own people in Denmark in order to influence society in their direction. It was then Communism that we were up against, and today it is Islamism, which, in a way, throughout its expansive political self-understanding is very well summed up in what the same Erdogan said in 1998 when he was mayor of Turkey, namely, quote: The minarets are our bayonets, the domes our helmets, the mosques our barracks and the believers our soldiers. Quote out. That is what we are up against, and this is where the President-in-Office has to say, with his permission, that it is a little bit impotent only to come and say that the proposal that we adopted last week should solve the problem. Of course it doesn't. We are in a cold war-like state with Turkey, and it is time for the majority of the Folketing to simply wake up and understand the damage that comes from Erdogan's government. Everywhere in Denmark, as well as in Germany and other Western countries, we see Turkish mosques shooting up like amphibians, and in the last year alone we have discussed Turkish mosques in Slagelse, in Holbæk, in Elsinore, etc. etc., around the country. But it is as if the majority of the Danish Parliament has not understood what is going on that one thinks it is such a cozy water pipe club where people come to discuss knitting recipes or something like that. This is not the case, but these are small subdivisions of Erdogan's government, which are governed, financed and directed directly from Turkey. We therefore want to put an end to this, and I believe that this proposal is the only effective way to put an end to it. That is why I have to say so far that it has been a sad process to hear from the large parties. Of course, I leave both faith and hope to the smaller parties that come on now, but there is not much light at the end of the tunnel here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163053	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163056	Then there comes a little faith and a little hope here from one of the smaller parties. When we discuss these issues, I always think it's important to look at what the core is. And what I hear mentioned over and over again, both from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, myself and several others, is exactly the imam agreement I think it is from 1963 that makes up to 30 state-funded Turkish imams are in Denmark continuously over time. So, instead of saying that we should ban everything from Turkey or anything from a single ministry as a lawyer, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt agree that it is a little untraceable why not focus on the agreement as the first step? I could at least read that the Minister said earlier that he would like to look at that agreement. So why do we not take a first step and have a talk with the Minister about whether this is the agreement that might solve at least the majority of the problems which I think Mr Delors has to deal with? Morten Messerschmidt himself thinks is behind this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163150	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163154	Thank you, President. Well, I think that if that were the government's proposal for the debate we have been having here today, I would hardly have given the speech I have just given. Because if you had had a hand on the part of the government and were willing at all to look at the agreements that have been made in a totally different time than the one we are experiencing today, that would be uplifting. I think there are quite a lot of the conventions, conventions, declarations and treaties that Denmark signed in the 1950s and 1960s, which would never have been included in the constitution that they ended up with if we had known what that would have led to today. This applies both to the Convention on Human Rights, to the Geneva Convention, to the Convention on Refugees and to the Declaration which Mr. Marcus Knuth mentions. So we simply need to review all the agreements and conventions that Denmark has concluded at the time and then adjust them and calibrate them in relation to the reality we have today. And if the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives can stand shoulder to shoulder there, then we are very happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163246	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163248	In any case, I think it would be a sensible first step to take. I can now read that the Minister, at least in Berlingske a few years ago, opened up to look at that agreement. And if we go far enough back in time, as Mr. Mads Fuglede • who is not here now did, well back to Atatürk, we can see that there have been currents in Turkey that have been very, very secular, and which do not exactly go the way Erdogan goes. That is why we would rather say: let us look at the problematic agreement instead of simply banning everything from an entire ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163317	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163319	There is, of course, a great deal that the Minister has said wisely before he became a minister, and that is why one might be tempted to believe that the quotation which Mr. Marcus Knuth thinks about also having fallen before 5 June 2019. There is at least quite a lot of what was said before 5 June 2019, we are still waiting for implementation. Compared with the period since 1921 and the founding of the so-called modern Turkish state, it is quite right that the waves have, as they were, gone back and forth between the secular and authoritarian Islamic forces. That's what Mr. Marcus Knuth just has to remember that, although one day the pendulum comes out in the secular direction again, it has historically always ended up in the authoritarian afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163400	The next question is Mrs. Halime Oguz of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163403	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I note that the rapporteur believes and says that political Islam is being preached from the Turkish mosques. I would like to know if the rapporteur has any figures on how many of these mosque-goers have been radicalised after visits to Turkish mosques.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163427	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163429	No, but I think it would be extremely interesting to get a map. But it is not only radicalisation that is central. Well, it's also a matter of loyalty. We know, for example. from the constitutional vote, which Erdogan also gained outside Turkey, that there is a very high level of loyalty and support for Erdogan among Turks living outside Turkey, so great that one sometimes has to ask where their loyalty really is, i.e. whether it is greater with Erdogan than with the country they live in today. So this is not just about the few, or at least fewer, who go completely crazy and end up in Syria somewhere; it is also about the whole influence of opinion that we should not tolerate the President of another country exercising in the way that Diyanet operates today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163517	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163519	I believe that, as legislators, we need to be a little more precise, both in terms of what we want, but also in terms of what we blame all other countries for. I fully agree with what the rapporteur says, namely that we must, of course, combat political Islam and, of course, we must fight foreign interests, which are intended to undermine our democracy; we must, of course, fight that. But we also have to stay on track. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur whether he can mention a single Turkish imam who has spoken rabid or anti-democratic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163558	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163600	No, that's not my business at all. I mean, what Lene Kühle and Malik Larsen, among other things. I am quoting it in my speech just before the Strasbourg professor, who lists how the whole thing is orchestrated from Turkey. It is not my business to say that one is necessarily radicalised. This is not the debate we want here at all. I would like to have a much wider debate, namely to say that the very influence of Erdogan in Danish mosques is undesirable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163631	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Halime Oguz of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163648	Thank you, President. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes to stop the Turkish Government's influence on the spread of mosques and Islam in Denmark through the financing or management of mosques and cultural houses in Denmark by the Turkish Ministry of Religion. We have recently adopted a bill banning foreign donations from, among others, the United Kingdom. foreign government authorities and state-controlled organisations aimed at undermining our democracy. Perhaps we should allow that to work before we start any other tightenings in this area. In addition, I remember that in 2017, the church minister tabled a bill which was adopted by a broad majority, including the Danish People's Party. It is about the law that obliges recognized religions in Denmark to be open about their economy and donations to religions. Danish Turkish Islamic Foundation is thus recognised as a religion in Denmark, and therefore it is also subject to the requirements of openness and of funding and supervision which are now laid down in the Religious Act. Similarly, more stringent requirements have been made for the area of supervision of free schools, and I think that is absolutely fantastic. This applies, among other things, to: transparency about donations, because, of course, it is important that we also see where the schools get their money from, so that we can then have clarity as to who is really behind them. It is all an expression of a sharper course towards foreign influence on Danish soil. But it is also important for me to stress that we in the SF are very concerned about combating political Islam and other anti-democratic movements in Denmark. We are just thinking at the same time that support in itself is not problematic. The problem is if it is support that helps to counter and undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights. For the same reason, we in the SF believe that we should have an imam education in Denmark, so that we ourselves train imams and thus ensure ourselves that imams do not come up here with a completely different religious, cultural and not least political agenda. With these comments, I would like to say that the SF does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163919	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316163921	I find it strange that the SF's rapporteur is so concerned about the issue of radicalisation alone when, among other things, one is concerned. in Berlingske on 7 October 2019 can read about a former Turkish imam, who wants to be anonymous for good reasons and who tells about how one has been asked to spy in Denmark so asked from Diyanets to spy in Denmark. He says: "Every third month we were asked in writing to send information about the people who came to the mosques to Diyanet in Turkey. We had to state their ethnic background and political views. It is not necessarily a question of radicalisation. It is just a question of a government which, it can be said, is far from Danish values in many areas, that is Erdogan's government and that uses the imams sent out as spies in Denmark. This does not solve the bill for which the SF and the Danish People's Party have both voted. So what is Mrs Halime Oguz's answer to this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164024	Thank you for the question. I have been and still am one of the greatest critics of Turkish politics. But I would also like to say at the same time that Turkey is much more than Erdogan. I have my own background in Turkey, so I would say that Turkish values are not very different from Danish values. These espionage cases, we're gonna have to hit hard, and we've actually done the same thing. I have spoken on several occasions about this, and I know that our Foreign Minister has called the Turkish Ambassador for an interview which was probably not a very nice conversation. Of course we have to hit it hard, but fortunately we have our police to deal with this. Of course, they should not have influence in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164121	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164123	But they do, Mrs. Halime Oguz. We have 30 imams, employed by Erdogan, who preach on Fridays in Denmark. If Mrs Halime Oguz then says that Turkey is much more than Erdogan, then I am quite familiar with it. Man these people are it's his government. Then it can be said that Erdogan's government only reflects 45 or 55 per cent. by the Turkish people, as I know, but these people are employed by, of course, the Erdogan government. That's the problem. So, frankly, I think that Mrs Halime Oguz owes a slightly more precise answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164154	I would very much like to give a precise answer, but I also think that, before we talk about these different imams and the different Turkish mosques that are in Denmark, we should have a little more insight, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt. Because it is actually my experience and it may be that there are some imams that have been forced to do one thing or the other, I should not be able to comment on that, and I believe in that newspaper article, which the rapporteur refers to the fact that most Turkish imams are quite ordinary, decent democratic citizens. Of course there are some who are not, and of course we must keep an eye on them. That openness must be achieved, and I think that there is, in fact, also in the various legislative proposals that we have adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164242	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164245	Is it the rapporteur's view that politics is also being preached in the mosques by Turkish imams?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164255	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164256	It is well known that Turks are strongly nationalistic. I do not think that this is the way to preach in the mosques, it is more religion. And I think that if you really want to problematize some of these anti-democratic countries or some of these mosques that preach anything other than what we stand for, then you have to be a little more precise, and there I think you should try to look at the mosques that actually preach hatred of Danish values. It is not my impression that the Turkish mosques do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164343	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164345	No, but one cannot rule out the fact that out of the 30 imams there are no people who may also preach politics some of the time, and then they also preach Islam. When they preach politics, is it the rapporteur's view that it would be loyal to Erdogan, or would it be critical of Erdogan, in other words those who pay the salary for being here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164411	In other words, it is not forbidden to speak politics, it is not forbidden to discuss politics, nor is it forbidden to have an attitude towards politics. However, the rapporteur is quite right that if the policy being preached or discussed has one specific purpose, namely to strengthen Erdogan's position, then I think it is problematic, but it does not solve this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164442	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. And can I possibly ask Mrs Halime Oguz to prepare the platform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164520	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution here will oblige the government to stop the Turkish Government's influence on Islam in Denmark by preventing the Ministry of Religion from financing mosques and cultural houses in Denmark. Whether to build new buildings used for religious or non-religious purposes is in this country up to the local planning authorities. There are 98 of them: 98 municipalities. And there I can advertise that there are municipal elections later this year; there you can run to influence which buildings are to be built in your local area. I am fully confident that both the Foreign Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when attempts are being made to influence inappropriate foreign interests in Denmark, speak strongly to the countries concerned. A law on the prohibition of donations to activities that undermine democracy and freedoms has also recently been adopted. The Radical Left supports the intentions of that law, but voted yellow to the bill because there was a lack of legal certainty as to the way in which administrative decisions are normally taken and we could easily see that it could be organised in a way that would not compromise its effectiveness, with the law. Finally, I would like to say that I do not think that the Turkish authorities will feel particularly obliged by a motion for a resolution in Denmark like this one. So, on this basis, the Radical Left cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164721	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief comments have been made. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316164739	The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party is very close to the bill adopted on 9 March 2021 prohibiting the receipt of donations from certain natural and legal persons. As you know, the Enhedslisten voted against the proposal, and our views in the debate at that time also apply to this specific motion for a resolution. We are in fact in agreement with the authors of the motion for a resolution that the Turkish Ministry of Religion is an extremely unsavory figure. With its systematic propaganda and interference in all aspects of people's lives, it represents the exact opposite view of Enhedslistens, namely that religion is a private matter. The Erdogan regime has increasingly made its own version of Islam a political tool in the fight against other political attitudes, be it among Muslims or other world views. In this context, the Ministry of Religion plays a key role. This shows, among other things, that: the ongoing outcome against, of course, special Kurds in Turkey, who come in the centrally determined and centrally issued Friday prayer. Can that problem be solved by adopting in the Folketing a stop to the activities of the Turkish Ministry of Religion on Danish soil, as the motion for a resolution says? Only partially, I think. Because when the hate speech turns into harassment and indictments of resident citizens of Turkey, it must, of course, be investigated, prosecuted and severely punished. After all, this is a problem which we have had the Minister of Justice in consultation on several occasions in order to address. Of course, when it comes to residence permits for posted and paid imams from the Ministry of Religion, it is also possible to cut off those who do not comply with Danish legislation. We are happy to look at them in committee. But what about Friday prayer? Specifically, this is done by reading it out in Turkey and then being broadcast to mosques all over the world, including in Denmark. I'm telling you, sir. Mr Morten Messerschmidt and the authors of the motion that we are again about to introduce censorship into Denmark and cut off electronic signals from other countries, be it on television, radio or computers? This is not the way we want to go down in the Enhedslisten. We can actually adopt this resolution, but that does not change the fact that the Internet has been invented. There's no indication that it's coming back. On the other hand, much more could be done to separate descendants from Turkey from the grip to which they are subjected, from the Ministry of Religion in Turkey, for example. by ensuring a Danish imam education, which the SF's rapporteur also mentioned, as a very good alternative to these imported minions from Erdogan, and for example. by finding an arrangement in which the economic dependence on the Ministry of Religion in Turkey could compete via a church tax model which resident Muslims could voluntarily join. We cannot support the proposal as it stands here. On the other hand, we find it interesting that the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal either. A short time ago, the so-called donation law was passed here in the Folketing, where it was very important for the Social Democratic Party that exceptions should only be made if a ban on donations could significantly affect foreign policy interests. Perhaps that is what we see here, one might be tempted to think. Social democracy is, of course, against the Erdogan regime, I understand that. But it is not so much that it actually does anything. That is certainly not what we see when we discuss things with the Foreign Minister. In the Enhedslisten we have no problem messing with the Erdogan regime, not at all. But it must be for the right reasons, namely that we believe in a separation of Church and State, namely that we believe that religion is a private matter, and the price should not be to restrict freedom of religion in Denmark or to introduce censorship, which must be the ultimate consequence of this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316165229	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt. And then I'm gonna ask for a little quiet in the conversation in the back rows. Rosa Lund I know I made a really exciting speech. ) Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316165235	It was certainly a speech that was more and more over in the world of fiction, one can say, and it is an exciting place to be. However, I would like to draw the debate to where the proposal is, because there is no censorship and all sorts of other crazy things, as Mrs Lund was told. What we are talking about is that we are, of course, allowed to run a mosque business, but that it should not come from President Erdogan. I hope Mrs Rosa Lund can tell the difference. Apart from all the revolutionary thoughts that Enhedslisten must of course make about how to change Denmark, I would just like to ask whether Mrs Rosa Lund could imagine any action that could be taken to limit the activities of authoritarian Islamist regimes in Denmark, without the need to change established arrangements such as the National Church and other good things which I know the Enhedslisten's storm troops are against, but which we all think is very nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316165342	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316165345	Maybe I'll start by calming Mr. Knox down. Morten Messerschmidt says that Enhedslisten is not against the church. By just thinking it should be separated from the state because we believe that religion is a private matter. Yes, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, I think there are things we can do quite specifically now, and I said that in my speech, for example. By doing an imam education. When I bring censorship in here, it's because I want to know, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, how you imagine this can be done in practice. It can't be done in any other way than to cut people off from logging into their computer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316165422	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316165424	It is the case that if you come from Turkey, you have to have legal residence in Denmark in order to operate in Denmark. And if you make a law that says that you must not, as imam, who works in Denmark, be paid by and under instructions from the Turkish Ministry Diyanet, then you are not legally resident in Denmark, and then you must not be in Denmark. I don't even know what that is, Mrs. Rosa Lund. So, this is about applying some sanctions, so that any imams that may work in Denmark are not under instructions from Erdogan, so it is not harder. Why on earth can't Mrs Rosa Lund see the logic of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316165503	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316165508	I think I'm just trying to think about what the consequences will really be of this motion for a resolution, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. And, as I also said in my speech, we are actually ready to look at the rules for residence permits when it comes to paid and posted imams from Turkey. But what's hard for us to stop... Morten Messerschmidt admits that when sermons are made in Turkey, they are sent out to the whole world, and it's just hard for us to stop it being put on, for example. YouTube. Then it takes nothing but a login for a computer and an internet connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316165537	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316165546	Thank you, President. I'm just gonna get the papers straightened out; it's important. I would like to begin by thanking the Danish People's Party for a very sensible proposal. I think there are many of us who, unfortunately, have mainly heard about Diyanet on various issues. There is funding for mosques here in Denmark. There are rabid imams who come here and preach a very political line. And I have to say that I was a little amazed when I read through the background to this motion for a resolution, because it said a little about how much influence on Islam here in Denmark Diyanet from Turkey has. But it is precisely because of something like this that a few weeks ago we adopted a bill to stop problematic foreign funding of mosques here in Denmark. It is also for the same reason that a few years ago we adopted the hate preacher list, so that we can also stop problematic imams from coming to Denmark. That is exactly what we want to ban the activities that we cannot accept. We in Conservatives think this is the way to go. But I would actually say that I am not sure that the law on donations or the law on hate preachers is enough. As we have talked about several times in this debate, including with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Turkey is the only country with which Denmark has an imam agreement that allows Turkey to send, as I understand it, up to 30 imams to Denmark, and that they can be here for up to 5 years. And when you hear some of the political ideology that they have with them, that is all else equally unacceptable. They are certainly financed by Erdogan and preach a line which I at least find very problematic here in Denmark. I would say that I was a little surprised to hear that SF wasn't more critical before. For in September 2019 the SF's rapporteur said at the time: "It is deeply problematic that the Turkish Government can use a diplomatic back door to propagandise in the country. I expect the Minister to look into ways of closing the gap. ▪ At that time in September 2019 the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration said that he would convene a discussion on the special status of the Imams here in Denmark. And that is no wonder; you can just take a single quote from one of the Imams, referring to the uprising that was in Turkey against Erdogan a few years ago. He writes: With faith and fatherland love we are ready to burn all the traitors, my brother. I do not think this is the kind of statement we need in the Danish mosques. That said, we are some who, with respect for ourselves, have changed party and were not rapporteur for foreigners at the time, so I must say hand in hand that I do not know whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has actually conducted this political discussion with the Foreign Affairs rapporteurs in this Chamber. It certainly sounds like nobody knows about it at first hand. But perhaps the Minister can discuss that when he gets on the platform. In any case, we think that this is the way we should go. I also believe that far along the way we can meet the problems that the Danish People's Party would like to address by looking at exactly this agreement, at least as a first step. The reality with Turkey is, of course, that if you go back in time, as we also discussed, Mr. During Atatürk and in various periods, Morten Messerschmidt has been looking for a much more secular direction in Turkey, and that is what we want to return to. So instead of banning all activities from, for example. The Turkish Government as a whole would like to ban the individual activities that we see as problematic in this country. There we believe that going back to the imam agreement, which the Minister, I believe, has set out, would be a good first step on the road. And we would rather do that than support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316165952	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316165955	I certainly don't want to stand in the way of us doing that. If we can jointly convince the Minister to implement one of the many, many proposals which he made before the elections but which have not yet been put forward, then it would be gratifying. However, I would like to warn Mr. Marcus Knuth against having a too idyllic idea about Turkey's internal political development. It is quite true that for a long time since Atatürk, efforts have been made to democratisation, but they have been met every time by a setback because the Islamists have then emerged. So the thing about thinking that because Turkey is moving in a Western direction at a given time, that direction is also the one that it is going to pursue in the future is very, very dangerous, and that is one of them. What has made us in the crazy situation is that the European Union has promised Turkey membership. So one has to understand that in an Islamic country politics and religion merge, and therefore there will always be long or short periods of darkness, and therefore it is wise to stay away.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316170100	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316170101	Well, under Erdogan, you are very much in one of those places if I may use the rapporteur's words... darker periods compared to the brighter periods during e.g. Atatürk, but the interesting thing is that if you are in Turkey and among others. Looking at Turkish youth, just the way they dress is the far more Western than if you look at the older generation. So I believe that there are strong forces pulling both ways. But that does not change the fact that it is totally unacceptable to have had preachers of hatred or problematic funding of mosques in Denmark, so that is what we need to focus on, and I think that if we can get the Minister to live up to what the Minister said in September 2019, namely that the parties should meet and look at this agreement, that would be a good first step on the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316170150	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316170152	I agree that Turkish youth in certain parts of the western part of Turkey is very western, but I would just like to point out to the rapporteur that the majority of Turkey is in the Middle East. Only a very small part is located west of the Bosporus Strait, and the longer you go east, the darker it gets.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316170216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316170217	I partially agree with that, but now I spent a large part of the last year before coming to parliament in 2014, on the Turkish side of the border with Syria, and I was amazed that even in some of these border towns in ordinary supermarkets you could see young girls wear shorter dresses than you sometimes see at a student party in Denmark. So there is a movement in Turkey that is positive, if you may put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316170247	There are no further comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316170305	Thank you. Unfortunately, our usual rapporteur has been prevented from being here today, but I would like to make a few comments on the resolution. We think this is a very good proposal. Looking around Europe it can't come as a surprise to anyone; no longer can anyone stick their heads in the sand and say that there is no problem with the political Islamisation that is happening by Europe, and in these cases funded by Erdogan and his people. Look around at the demonstrations around Europe when he calls for demonstrations when he asks people to go on the streets. You get the impression that the people who live there are loyal to Erdogan, but not to the European countries in which they live, the nations that have taken them in and welcomed them. That development must be stopped because, as the number of people increases sharply, their power and their influence on the societies in which we live is also greatly increased. And that is a development that I absolutely do not want. This proposal is rejected with some vague arguments, I think, that you do not like the tools to be used, etc. But the proposers say that the government will be required to stop the Turkish Government's influence on mosques and the spread of Islam in Denmark. There is no mention of what methods it should be; it is precisely said that the government should come up and say what it is. When we ask the government what specific measures are going to be taken to solve this problem, since the government is not going to support this proposal, we are referring, which is classic, to what has been done in the past. But if what has been done in the past had solved the problem, then we did not have the problem. And we have and here comes a good proposal which says: now we have to move on; we want the government to move on to it. And we can certainly support that. Then came a proposal from Conservatives that we should look at the Imam regime with Turkey. We welcome the heart's welcome, and we will look at this very positively if that is the way it is going. But that does not mean that we cannot support this resolution, because it is also good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316170537	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316170549	Thank you for the floor. It is the Turkish abbreviation of the Turkish-Islamic Union for Religious Affairs, and it is an organisation of the official Turkish state body of religion called Diyanet. The system works in such a way that every week there are some employees in D.T.B who prepare official sermons, which are given by the emitted imams around Europe. Thanks to the Dutch Islamist Ruud Koopmans and the book he has recently published here in Denmark, called Islam's Dead House, the ordinary Dane, who cannot Turkish, can get acquainted with what kind of sermons are being given. Here I will give some samples, and they are both from the work I mentioned earlier by Koopmans, called the Dead House of Islam. The first quote is this: As a community it is our task today to keep the memory alive of our honored martyrs, who left us our homeland as an inheritance. Those who want to destroy our kinship, our unity and our unity must never have the opportunity to sow discord, unrest and strife between us. ▪ And another taste of these D•T•B sermons from the same book reads like this: No one who enters Paradise would want to return to Earth. Only a martyr wants to return and again die martyrdom when he sees what reputation and rank he enjoys here in Paradise. It was this message of joy that ensnared our Prophet and his followers, and later also our forefathers, and drove them from one front to the next to attain this high rank. Into Allah's way to spread His name. For the country and the people of the country. ▪ What is being preached in these official state sermons that one can hear is first nationalism; people of Turkish descent must never forget that they are Turks. Or, to put it another way, it is authoritative calls for the Turkish diaspora in Western Europe to never integrate where one lives. Secondly, a very conservative version of Islam is being preached, which one must also hear, which says that the finest thing one can possibly be is a martyr. It is the only thing that can make one want to leave Paradise, namely to come back and die martyrdom again. Why can all this be done? It can, of course, because of the so-called Ankara Agreement concluded between Turkey and the then EC in 1963, which was, after all, a very different time when Celism still existed in Turkey, and in this way it made some sense to fulfil this Kemalist idea that Turkey belongs in Europe. We have freedom of religion with Article 67 of the Constitution, but it also has some limitations, namely that nothing must be learned that is contrary to morality and public order. In fact, I believe that the government should move to seriously examine Diyanet's relationship with public order. For as several have pointed out, through the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Turkey has already received several reprimands to spy against her resident supporters of Erdogan's political opponents. There was no doubt either during the riots around Western Europe during the referendum in 2017, that Diyanet also played a certain role in the riots that, for example, took place. was in the Netherlands, and fortunately the Danish Government spoke in support of the Dutch Government. And then you are an active contributor to the failure of integration in Denmark on Friday after Friday to insist that you never integrate. That is why we in LA believe that it is quite meaningful to discuss whether the Diyanet mosques are in fact a threat to public order in Denmark and are thus subject to the exceptions in the constitution in relation to freedom of religion. We do not believe that the proposals of the Danish People's Party solve all problems with Diyanet and with Turkish intervention in Denmark, but we think that this is a good first step, and that is why we can support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316171047	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next one is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316171105	Thank you, President. To believe that it is hip as a trap, which side of the Folketing has the majority and supports the government, must today be put to shame. Or let us put it nicely: Anyone who believes it must have become something wiser. We have a government which, in its comment on the proposal here, says that you are very aware of it and that you are very concerned, but you are not going to vote in favour. We have a government party, the Social Democratic Party, which quite openly stated in its speech that agreements must be made with Turkey, and that is why people like Erdogan should not be overly bothered. We have a SF that spends a lot of time talking about that now the whole of Turkey is not equal to Erdogan, etc. We have a Radical Left which is not surprisingly more concerned with international conventions than what we others call the country of origin. And then we have a party like the Enhedslisten that is more concerned with separating the state and the church than dealing with the specific problem. Oh yes, and I think there is also the alternative and some new formations which have not even found the opportunity to enter the Chamber for today's debate. It's red Denmark. It is they who have the power at least a few more years. Then there are the blue parties in which we have the Conservative People's Party, which will openly enter into a debate on repealing the 1963 agreement which is the foundation of the huge problem we face. We have a Left where I heard Mads Birds openly recognise that there is a problem and that the laws we have adopted so far are certainly not enough. Then we have a New Citizen who openly supports the proposal and a Liberal Alliance who openly supports the proposal and even takes the trouble to philosophise on what the basic law actually says in section 77 about public order, and quite rightly brings out Ruud Koopman's research in this debate. It's two completely different worlds. Whatever one of the bourgeois parties one imagined one day might form a government or it could be all the bourgeois parties... it would be a completely different approach to this than the one that is with the government we have today, whose spin offices are indeed running too full, but which, of course, has a parliamentary hinterland that keeps them in power and where one is therefore more concerned with the things I mentioned before. If anyone thinks that it is hip as hip, whether it is the blue side or the red side that has the majority in Denmark, then one has become wiser today. Those who also wish to see the Minister's fine words translated into reality will not ever be able to vote with good conscience or common sense for any of the parties which make the Minister minister minister, because then one will have nothing but useless talk; whereas those who want a real change, those who want it to be really harder for Erdogan and his equals to have spying imams in Denmark; to have imams who receive the speakers directly from Turkey; and to have such columnist activity can only vote on a blue party. Fortunately, the Constitution sets the framework for when parliamentary elections are to be held here in Denmark. The only task we have until that day is to make these differences clear bite by bit. For it is not just a question of technicalities or practicalities; it is basically a question of whether you want to put Denmark as the first birthright of the Danes first, or whether you want it to be the friends of internationalism and emancipation to govern this country. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316171519	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Halime Oguz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316171523	Thank you. It is always a pleasure to listen to the rapporteur's speeches with huge arm movements. Now we are being blamed on the red wing for all sorts of things, but there is something I would just like to ask the rapporteur. Now President Erdogan is not an Islamist, but a very, very strong conservative and nationalist, and he really, really wants to spread Islam to the rest of the world, just like the Danish People's Party, because I actually think there are a lot of similarities that I would like to spread Christianity and awaken this Christian feeling in the people. So what's the difference? I don't understand. Because I also don't understand this scepticism about Erdogan when you actually subscribe to the same values.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316171617	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316171619	The difference between Islam and Christianity is that Islam is a religion of law. That's one of them. Therefore, that the whole Muslim world has gone to a standstill both socially, politically, economically and in all other areas. Islam is in every respect in opposition to what is Danish Christianity, and if Mrs Halime Oguz would like to learn something about Danish Christianity, I can say that on 19 March I will publish a book about it by the name of the Christian Heritage, which I shall make sure she gets a signed version of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316171647	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316171648	I will look forward to that, but I will also quickly say that I have actually read the Old Testament and that I have also read the New Testament, so completely ignorant I am not in relation to Christianity. I would like to say that the rapporteur cannot stand there and say that the Turkish Government is out to spread political Islam. Well, they're just religious, and I guess they see Islam as a belief and not a political ideology. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316171720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316171721	No, it can't be done at all. That is, of course, the whole problem of Islam, i.e. that one cannot separate the political from the religious one, whereas in Christianity it is the opposite. There Jesus tells you to give Caesar what Caesar's is, and God what God is. And that is also why it is in the Christian culture circle, the secular principles, democracy, the fundamental principles of science and the whole idea of enlightenment have arisen. There is little information from Islam. I think Halime Oguz will agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316171751	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316171821	The debate is open and we will start by giving the floor to the Minister for Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316171830	Thank you very much. And thank you for the debate, which we have had in the past under a slightly different framework. Motion for a resolution B 109, which is the framework for our debate today, calls on me to table a bill before the summer on the establishment of a board of the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. First of all, let me say that I fully agree with the intentions behind the motion for a resolution, and the government has also indicated in a previous question debate that we are also interested in a normalisation of the situation, as we would call it the management relationship at the Academy of Fine Arts in relation to other educational institutions, and we are interested in this in all artistic education, so that art can develop at this important educational institution as well as the other artistic educational institutions. But there is no doubt that the Academy of Fine Arts is probably the one of the artistic educational institutions that has been the most in decline in recent times. There have been cases of mistrust of the former leadership, vandalism against Frederik V's bust and the whole handling of it. The cases have focused on what is the real purpose of the institution and have certainly not benefited the reputation and confidence in artistic education. It is not the employees, the students or the community that are served by it. In my view, the most important task of the Academy of Fine Arts is to train future artists at the highest level of art and craftsmanship. It is important that the framework for it is there, such that the academy both internally and externally signals full focus on that task, and we must then ensure that in the legislative framework. However, in order to be able to make the legislation that can help to set the framework for the future of the Academy of Fine Arts and the other artistic educations, I think it is important to first get a precise understanding of what is wrong, to make the diagnosis exactly before we start to treat the patient, so to speak, and that is why I have set in motion an independent study of the teaching and study environment and the organizational culture at the Academy of Fine Arts on top of the bust affair in the autumn. In the spring, the following will happen: first of all, there will be a new principal. I think that's gonna be a really good new start for the Academy of Fine Arts. And then I fully agree that we need to start working with a board that is rooted in artistic competence and that can help to ensure precisely the focus on educating artists. However, setting up a board of directors also raises a large number of other issues, which it is also important to clarify. It is necessary to review the basis governing the work of the Academy of Fine Arts in the form of laws and regulations and to look at the structures to ensure that decisions are anchored in the organisation. raises the question of • so that we get the interaction between the board, the rector, the ministry, the students and, in fact, the entire artistic labour market to work optimally in a future form of organisation. In this context, the question could also be raised as to whether the Academy of Fine Arts should actually remain a state institution or whether it would not in fact be best served by having increased autonomy as a self-serving institution, as many other educational institutions have. All these questions are some of those which can also be asked in relation to other artistic educations, and so I have set up a committee to look at how these issues can best be dealt with and to come up with proposals for concrete solutions which we can then take a political position on afterwards. These are some of the most structural issues we have. This is where we are actually training for the future, so it is important that we do not make urgent legislation or snapshot solutions for a single institution, but that we continue to look together in this area and to get the dialogue both with representatives of management, employees, professional organisations and students into our political work. But as soon as that report is there, I shall look forward to continuing the debate in the rapporteur's circle. I have asked that the committee finish its work on 31 October this year, so it will be right at the beginning of the next session that we can begin to have a clearer picture of it. I shall look forward to that and leave it to the reason why we cannot now vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172322	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. There are several requests for short remarks, and the first is from Mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172326	Thank you for that review. I have two questions, and the first is that this whole debate has now taken place, and I think that some of the background to it is somewhat out of context, but that does not change the fact that there has now been a debate. I welcome this, and I also welcome the ideas outlined by the Minister in relation to a self-serving institution and a good board of directors. All that sounds pretty good to me. What I would like to ask, however, is that we are now looking at the Academy of Fine Arts, and I think that there is now a unique opportunity to take a look at it a little and then look at whether we should not look at all the artistic educations. Now I do not expect the Minister to have seen the proposal made by the Free Greens last week, but here we are outlining some ideas about a genuine art university with all the nuances to be mentioned in relation to it, but we will not have time for that at all. But what does the Minister think about spreading the debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172429	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172430	Well, first of all, the government and I, as its representative, would very much like to spread the debate. That is why we have just set something in motion to shed light on the situation for the Academy of Fine Arts, but also in relation to the whole of the future structural change we are looking at the courses widely. Secondly, with regard to the proposal from the Green Group, I have certainly looked at that, and I think there are some good ideas here, but all of them, what can be said, the title of what is called an artistic university, makes me feel sufficiently reserved anyway. Because for the government, it is precisely about getting the craftsmanship back in focus. In reality, we have the same artistic education in universities today that we have at the artistic educational institutions, but the big difference is, roughly speaking, that if you study film media at the university, you research it, and if you study it at the Film School, you are there to learn how to make films. There is a significant difference in gravity, and that is at least an essential thing for the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172536	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172537	We were also very uncertain whether to call it an art university, but we chose to do so because we wanted to do something comparable with the art university in Berlin. It is a longer discussion, but we are happy to take it. My last question concerns the fact that there has now actually been a debriefing of what happened at the Academy of Fine Arts. And what I notice so much is that it says, among other things, that the challenges that have been around study environments and conflicts are not significantly different from those in all kinds of other higher education. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172612	There has been a lot of focus on the conflicts that have been at the Academy of Fine Arts. There has also been a lot of focus just over a year ago on some conflicts that are somewhat similar to them, though without vandalism, at the Film School. And it is probably the two artistic educations that I know about, and that is why I have started this analysis of all the artistic educations, so that we also get an insight into this: How do they really relate to both this whole accreditation process and thus also the academyisation process, which helped to get the film school's students to rebel? And then we get this whole picture. I do not immediately agree with what you quote from the report that the Academy of Fine Arts is not in a particular situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172653	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172658	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for this presentation for discussion in the Chamber. After all, there's been a report today that Mr. Uffe Elbæk has just referred to, and that report tells some factual things about the whole problem. How does that report fit into the Minister's picture of the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172727	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172729	It is, of course, a very big issue that I will look forward to discussing further with the rapporteur when we discuss the report in the rapporteur's circle. It is only the first part that we have chosen to publish now; we are still missing the second part. So if it is for this that the report says that the conditions at the Academy of Fine Arts are no worse than in other artistic educations, then I would say that it is not an image I can recognize, but I also need to read the more thorough and also have the views of this committee on how deep these organizational problems are, in other words, in order to be able to achieve a broader aim. In our political debate and thus in my work we have been very focused on the Academy of Fine Arts and the Film School, which are the two artistic educations that have come to a great deal of debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172820	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172822	Thank you. I think it would have been right for us to have a good discussion today too. And if the Minister has read the rest of the report, it might have been nice to have sent it out a little earlier, but there may of course be some other considerations behind that, and perhaps the Minister has not received the report before. The Minister does not mention freedom of spirit as an objective in his speech. Where does that fit in with the Minister's opinion on what should happen at the Academy of Fine Arts?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172857	After all, freedom of spirit was debated in the debate on questions to which I referred in my opening speech, in which I made it clear that the government is acting in the context of this policy of identity that they must also spare others the freedom they want for themselves and their positions. So, it is fine that you can have those attitudes, but there must be room for the plurality; it is one of the things that drives the changing potential of art and culture to such an extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172928	Then it's Mrs. Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316172929	Thank you. I would actually like to hear, a little more in depth, the Minister's position on the establishment of boards in general on art education. I recognise that the Minister is now launching some studies, and it is also always healthy, but in view of the fact that there has been a great deal of unrest, as the Minister himself mentions, at the Film School and now also at the Academy of Fine Arts, does the Minister not recognise that it would be a good idea to get student representation, that one gets professional competences and that one gets an income tax for us politicians, for the Ministry of Culture, by setting up these boards?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173011-2	Yes, I would like to confirm that, just as I did at the end of the question debate and in my opening speech, that is to say that I think it is a good idea to look at setting up boards on all artistic courses with student representation, with representation of the labour market, which, what can be said, students are trained for, and with employee representation and thus have a good management power that involves both, but also sets a framework and a focus that we as a government would like to have on the crafts sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173043	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173043-2	I think that sounds very sensible, and I also think it is very sensible to focus on the crafts sector, that is to say that it is precisely a craft, whether you are a visual artist or you are a film producer and so on. But why do we have to wait until October 31st and then deal with it? This means that it will be a year, perhaps a year and a half, very quickly, when we could have just agreed to set up more boards on art education. I think that's a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173119-2	I am, of course, just as impatient as the rapporteur, but many years in politics have also taught me that if you want to do things thoroughly that have to last structurally for many years, it is also important that you get people involved in the process. A great deal of controversy has arisen in the light of some specific situations in some specific educational establishments. I am also being approached by some of the other educational institutions which say: why do we have to go when we are not being debated? I think it is fine if we have this impatience in terms of structurally creating a clear framework for everyone in the whole educational world, but we also have to do the job properly. That's why it's gonna take a little longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173159	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173202	Thank you. I respect the fact that the Minister would like to take his time for this work. We can only agree with that. However, I am still a little curious to know how the Minister deals with one of the issues that is always of great concern to us when we talk about art and culture, namely the arm's length principle. If we are to have a board of directors, how do we ensure the arm's length principle, and in line with that, what does the minister think about who should hire the principal in the future? In this regard, it should be noted that the contested tax rulings do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, since they do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173245	I could easily imagine that the arm's length arm just got longer than it is today. That's why I'm raising this question about whether it's really the right organization that these artistic educational institutions are state institutions. We could well have state-based, but self-serving institutions, as are other institutions for higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173315	There are no more brief comments from Mrs Zenia Stampe. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173320	I would also like to ask a little what the Minister imagines a future management could look like, and particularly, of course, on the basis of the considerations which the report here makes at the bottom of page 19 under the subject heading "Council democracy and centralisation," where it says: "It leads paradoxically enough to the opposite of the intended ones, i.e. inefficient meetings, unclear meeting forums, unclear meeting bases, meeting sessions, etc. It will be a jumble and a marked lack of efficiency. • What the report is talking about is when people from everyday life at the Institute are included on the board, in other words very much what we have to deal with in the next item on the agenda. Can the Minister say a little bit about what she thinks about these considerations, i.e. that if, for example, she thinks about them? Involves students on the board, as some have wanted, according to the report, leads to a decision-making vacuum, unclear meeting basis, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173425	I think it is important to remember that the report we have now published the first part of is not aimed at boards of directors. It is an analysis of the situation of the Academy of Fine Arts. We will then have a thorough committee work in October to take account of all artistic education and there will be some more concrete recommendations for the creation of boards. And I would clearly expect that some of the comments made by Mr Beyer de Ryke will be taken into account in this work. Morten Messerschmidt has just read out so that the involvement of some groups still leads, of course, to a clear and effective decision-making process and the organisation of meetings. It is now also my impression from other state institutions, where employees or students are involved, that this can easily be done. But, of course, we need to think, and that is precisely one of the reasons why I have started a committee work and await their recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173519	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173520	However, it is quite clear here in the middle of page 7 and I quote: In this context, the establishment of a board of directors of the Academy of Fine Arts will certainly have its place. Quote out. So it is not the case that the question of setting up a board is completely foreign in the report. And if, in addition, in the section on page 19, you have a reflection on whether it would be wise to comply with the desire of both employees and students for direct influence, then it is probably not too much to ask that the Minister has also thought about it. So does the Minister agree with the concern expressed by the report that this could lead to an unresolved power vacuum, a management vacuum and all the other traitors that the report lists?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173600	I guess I have to say that I think most of the structures can give exactly these effects if you don't have a clear idea of what the roles are when you sit at these meetings, or know how the decisions are made, or where you make one or the other way, or when you may also go out, because you are incompetent, or if you do not otherwise take an active stand on the responsibility you take. So I think that can work, but that is clearly something that I expect further addressed in the report in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173636	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Minister, so we are now starting with the rapporteur's series. Thank you to the Minister for Culture. The next person to speak is Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316173703	Thank you for the floor. For Social Democracy, it is absolutely crucial that we ensure high professionalism and that we ensure qualified management at the Academy of Fine Arts as well as at all other artistic educations in Denmark. It goes without saying that identity policy must not, of course, define our artistic education, because art must live freely and it must define itself. Following the case in which an department head from the Academy of Fine Arts destroyed a bust by Frederik V, a great deal of debate has arisen on the teaching, study environment and culture of the Academy of Fine Arts. I believe that this debate is absolutely necessary and we in the Social Democratic Party believe that there is a need to restore confidence that the Academy of Fine Arts continues to contribute to the success and development of art in the future. As you know, the Minister for Culture has just had an independent study of what the study environment, teaching and culture at the Academy of Fine Arts are like, so that it can be made clear what challenges there are, with the ideas of identity policy, and what management and organizational challenges there are today. In parallel with this, the Minister for Culture has launched a work in which a committee with a solid artistic educational insight and with both employees, students and employers represented must come up with a well-worked proposal for a management structure on artistic education. So it is wider than just the question of the Academy of Fine Arts, it is wider than just the issue of boards, and it is with the involvement of them that it is about. In fact, I think that is a serious approach to solving an important problem and a serious approach to taking seriously the challenge of both culture and the management of our artistic education. Because we're not just gonna set up boards because someone dumped a bust in the harbor. We have to do this because we believe that it will mean better education courses, which will create better students. We need to introduce boards of directors because we want to introduce the democratic conversation on our degree programmes and participation to employees and students, for whom we have a long tradition in Denmark, and which I personally believe in both creates better education, but also contributes to the formation of democratic fellow citizens. It is, of course, a form of education that you must have with you from your education, whether you are a lawyer or a clerk or an artist. That is why this is also about ending the democratic deficit in our artistic education. Now, of course, we have had the debate in here before, and there has also been public debate, and I have not really heard any party oppose the creation of a new model of governance for artistic education, including the establishment of boards of directors. Since the Minister for Culture has just started work on precisely that, I might actually be a little surprised that we are going to have the debate today, not just once, but actually twice. Well, of course we'll have to take that. And just to make it very clear: Yes, the Social Democracy believes that we must have a board of directors established at the Academy of Fine Arts, just as we must look at a new governance for all the artistic educations, and we very much hope that when the committee makes its recommendations in the autumn, the parties of the Danish Parliament will be involved in the task of creating a new and better management and management model, not just for the Academy of Fine Arts, but for all the artistic educations in Denmark. I very much look forward to discussing this in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174029	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174032	Thank you for that speech. I noticed one thing: no, I noticed several things, but there's one particular thing I want to ask you about, and that's that, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær said that we do not make a board of directors because there is a bust that has been thrown into the port, but that we have to introduce a board of directors because it is the right organisational grip. I would say that my argument for thinking that a board of directors is important is, in fact, also to protect the Academy of Fine Arts from the pressure that from time to time comes in the media and among us politicians against such an educational institution. I just want to hear what the rapporteur thinks about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174118-2	I agree with that. I believe that the arm's length principle is important in many areas. I think it is particularly important in the field of culture to have an arm's length principle where it is not up to the politicians at Christiansborg or a single minister to steer the direction, but where it takes place freely and independently and where the people concerned can make the decisions. So I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174147	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174148	Then we now have this report, which some have read carefully, and others less thoroughly. I've skimmed it, I'll honestly admit. There are several passages in it which emphasise that the whole debate on the ravages of identity policy in quotation marks at the Academy of Fine Arts has been taken out of context. So my question to the rapporteur is: does the rapporteur think that the whole focus on identity policy has just been given one more tooth than it could handle?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174222	So you can already hear in this Chamber at the beginning of this debate, but indeed in the media today that this report is being interpreted differently. That is why I think we have to take it as an overall picture when this committee on governance comes up with their recommendations and then look at what you do. However, I would like to say that I am quite personally concerned about the currents of identity policy that we have not just seen at the Academy of Fine Arts, but are looking around at many of our higher education programmes. I do not think it is a healthy discourse, and I can have a concern about what it means for freedom of spirit if we just let them loose. But that doesn't mean that the answer is a massive control from Christiansborg. I think the answer is more of a strong management space in our educational institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174305	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174306	I am very pleased that Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær begins his speech by saying that identity policy must not define the academy as an institution. We are very much in agreement with that, and that is the worrying trend we have seen. On page 6 of this report, you can read the following and I quote: Finally, it would be a good idea to have more solidarity among students on the way in which the processes have come out of control in individual cases. This requires openness and a position that supports dialogues, where individuals are not unduly dragged into the middle of social processes that seem inevitably to resemble social bullying rather than professional reflection on artistic processes and expressions. Is Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær agreed that this is a revelation of the totalitarian mentality of the identity-political movement, so that the fact that one has disagreed with the forms of expression of these currents has simply led to social bullying and stigmatisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174409	After all, we have had the debate in this Chamber before, and I think that the challenge of identity policy is precisely that it leaves no room for other opinions than precisely those which define what is right. That is why much of the ideas of identity policy that we have seen at the Academy of Fine Arts on our artistic education at all is, to me, an expression of precisely the absence of freedom of spirit and the absence of pluralism and diversity, including in the democratic conversation, which must take place at every educational institution and which is an absolutely crucial part of education and the formation of whole people, regardless of what education they are studying.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174444	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174445	I'm glad we're looking at that the same way, but then we'll have to talk about what the solution to the problem is, i.e. how we get rid of this undemocratic mental system. And if it is really enough just to have a board of directors and a professional board of directors, that is to say it can do it alone, I would ask Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174507	Can it do it alone? Well, I have no doubt that the answer to identity policy is better management. It is a leadership that feels calm enough in its case to say that no, it should not be individuals, and no, it should not be individual trends that define how we are together here at our educational institution. I believe that this is simply a management task, that is to ensure that there is freedom of spirit and that there is freedom of research. It's a management task. We can't do that, no matter how much we want to do, from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174533	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174537	I took note of the wording in the report which says: "Little at the forefront is the Academy of Fine Arts in a situation where it does not seem to be the problems, there is the problem, but rather the way many talk about and position themselves in relation to the problems both internally and externally. That's why I'm gonna be curious when mr. Kasper Sand Kjær then says that there is a general problem with identity policy, and then I would just like to hear what it is, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær means identity policy, and what specific problems have arisen in relation to identity policy? Because we have talked a lot about it, but I really do miss those specific examples. It's kind of a ghost flapping out there that we don't really get materialized, maybe because it wasn't quite as big as we thought. So can we put a few more words on this ghost that apparently really threatens freedom of spirit?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174631	It's getting more rematerialized, isn't it? I think that the stories that have been out of the Academy of Fine Arts, which have been published in the media, have been worrying. We have also had it in other artistic education, but also in higher education at all. The University of Copenhagen has had several cases, I think, of a varying nature, which also embodies identity policy. That is why I think it is so good that we have now had it examined. We can only hear from today's debate that that report is interpreted very differently by the parties, probably also by the institutions, and that is why it must be taken together with the other committee looking at the governance model to find the political solutions. I do not think that we should pull out one quote and say that we can now conclude whether it is a problem or not. I have no doubt that there is a flow of identity policy on our artistic education, our higher education and in several places in society, and I think we should be concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174726	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174727	But I can also understand that this has become the truth that has been adopted from the very beginning, one should say the extreme left to the extreme right that we have a problem with identity policy. I'm just still a little curious to find out what that identity policy, which is very scary and very dominant and mind-controlling to a degree that makes us actually really want to get involved in what's happening at those cultural and educational institutions. Then Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær give me some concrete examples? Now Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær that it also exists in other educational institutions. What are we talking about? Could we not have some concrete examples on the table instead of just one word, i.e. identity policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174806-2	Let me just give two specific examples. After all, the University of Copenhagen has now decided that students who believe that this is the intro programme of political science should no longer be allowed to divide into country names, because it can be seen as offensive by some or at least by the very few students who have complained. Then you start making rules about this type of study start-up activity by the management. I think that's one sign. Another sign was the discussion about the National Museum and whether, when they reproduce the story from Greenland, they may use the word Eskimo in their exhibitions on how it was spoken when the story they communicate took place. I think that is only worrying examples of us both taking unnecessary account of today, but that we are also trying to delete those parts of history that I think we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174902	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. It is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The rapporteur of the Left is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, so the rapporteur of the Left rounds. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316174929	Thank you. We are in the Danish People's Party co-sponsor of the proposal for adoption that we are discussing now and are pleased that the debate coincides with the fact that we then get the report here on the Academy of Fine Arts, which largely qualifies the discussion we have had, and at least exposes part of the culture that applies at the Academy of Fine Arts. I fully share the view of the Socialist rapporteur, in other words that it is undesirable. It is absolutely crucial in our art education in general that there is a generosity, tolerance or liberalism that makes it impossible to control the expressions of one's fellow students either with bullying or with other forms of harassment, because one feels offended. That is exactly what is described on page 5 and which has been the case. It is said that these are defined incidents, but nevertheless incidents in which individual students have been violated and marginalised for reasons legitimised by identity policy positions. In other words, the fact that one can have one's own political attitude, which then means that another artist must not express his political position, does not harmonize at all with the general understanding of how art is to develop. Unfortunately, one has to say that it harmonizes very well with the spirit of time. If you look at some of the manifestations that you experience around society in these years, it is, after all, marked by a high degree of uniformity and infidelity. That's not good enough. We have heard enough about people who have attitudes to colonial times and slave trade and racism etc. in the sign of condemnation. It's not interesting anymore. What is interesting is, of course, to gain new perspectives on the life we live and on the obvious things that we think we have. That is the task of management in particular. I therefore hope that the government will soon decide to put together the board which the report directly recommends or at least gives its approval and will fill out the management vacuum that is at the Academy of Fine Arts as soon as possible. On page down it is described here how there is a de facto undemocratic, or one can almost say totalitarian spirit in certain circles, where one believes in the power to dominate other people's views on art and politics, while at the same time there is a strong desire for self-determination and so on. Well, this whole report is screaming for leadership. That is why it must be said that the former leadership must undoubtedly sit back with some red ears. We must hope that this proposal can be adopted as soon as possible and that the Minister will therefore be able to follow the instructions we hope she will receive, namely to ensure that there is proper management, proper management, and hopefully also genuine freedom of spirit at the Academy of Fine Arts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175257	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175301	It may come as no surprise that I look at it a little differently than the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, and fair enough with it. I can say that I think I have been subjected to such 20 years of identity policy ravaged by certain political positions in what defines Danishness and being Danish, and whether you have Danishness in your heart, etc. etc. But peace with it. When the rapporteur discusses freedom of spirit and says it is a huge problem down at the Academy of Fine Arts, I would just like to ask the rapporteur: yes, there is bullying in all organisations, yes, there are sometimes unfortunate ways of talking to each other in all jobs, including education, but does the rapporteur think that we are facing a particular problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175409	Yeah, I mean that. And it is clear that in this sense one can indirectly thank the vandals who destroyed the Frederik V bust, because they have highlighted this particular problem. I'm not sure if this vandalism incident hadn't happened, we would have talked about things like this. That is how it is sometimes: when you are in an environment where you feel self-appointed in your own ideological exaltation, you also think you can do anything. And that's where the line went. The media, and indeed many politicians, saw that there had to be a sick culture in this academy, and that is why we now have both the report and the debate, and hopefully also, whether Mr. Uffe Elbæk backs it or not, gets a new political leadership.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175459	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175501	I think it is quite interesting that several politicians have been out to say that our freedom of research is under threat because of this identity policy ravage that I am talking about. Firstly, I fully agree with the rapporteur for Radicals who says: what does that actually mean, what are the concrete examples? And can the concrete examples you can actually show that we are discussing this at this level, as we are doing now? I just feel that way when I read the rector of Aarhus University's opinion, who says that there are no problems with the freedom of research, is it not something about us turning a small problem into a very big problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175543	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175544	First of all, it's nice to hear that Mr. Uffe Elbæk agrees with the rapporteur of his former party. So that's not all he's left from previous positions. And secondly, there is something about not putting the fox to guard geese, and I think that in the sense that now the rector of Aalborg University is responsible for what is going on at Aalborg University, among other things. in the public debate has been the subject of criticism. So I think it's very good to get a set of independent eyes on beyond the rector's own.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175614	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175617	I would also just like to ask whether the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is present. Morten Messerschmidt, could give some concrete examples of this culture of identity policy and not least some examples of how it should dominate. One thing is that there can be an ideology which I certainly do not like, and which I also think is totalitarian in their nature, but can the rapporteur also give examples of how it dominates and majorises some other currents and ideologies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175643	Yes, there are plenty of expressions, at least I've got them. It may be weird perhaps to send to Mrs Zenia Stampe, but I have at least got it from students and researchers in universities who say that if you have certain approaches to your research that do not accord with the established identity policy, we have to tell the truth and not go into the rhetoric or dogmatics, then you are bullied or you are harassed, you are not allowed to research etc. I have had plenty of examples of this in the fields of gender research, integration research, even climate research, where, if you do not subscribe to it like established truth, it is very, very difficult to base your research or even be allowed to enter the faculties or departments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175732	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175736	After all, it was an allegation that it was not to provide evidence of the claim. That is what I am asking for, i.e. some evidence that this is a totalitarian ideology which also dominates the various cultural institutions and educational institutions here. Can we get some proof of that, and not just that Mr. Knox... Morten Messerschmidt has received some e-mails from someone in which case I would like to see some of those e-mails, so some more specific examples and not just something you've heard. It is a rather airy and rather thin basis for talking about such a large and massive and dangerous ghost.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175810	Well, I don't remember if it was last week or the week before that in Weekendavisen, among other things. was a full report from Mr. Søren K. Villemoes, who presented at least one field in migration research with lots of examples. So Mrs. Zenia Stampe doesn't even have to go into my inbox, but can sort of just frequent the regular daily press to find out about the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175831	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175832	Thank you. On 7 April last year was a Friday, and there Weekendavisen's employee Poul Pilgaard Johnsen had a large article called Art Academy. Here the highly acclaimed painter Tal R describes a culture of fear at the academy, where Tal R tells Weekendavisen's employee that there are a large number of critical discussions you cannot take because they are being pushed down by among others. militant feminism. And another professor named Ferdinand Ahm Krag can tell about how he has been tried pressed out of the Academy of Fine Arts because he likes Van Gogh and thus has a romantic view of art. Could that kind of incident, like for example. An anonymous line at the Academy of Fine Arts are some of the examples that have been sought in the debate here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316175934	Yes, I think so, and I have similar examples from the film world and from the theatre world. I just do not want to mention names here, even if Mrs Zenia Stampe seems very introductory in this respect, because the people concerned have not asked to be mentioned from the parliamentary platform. But what we can agree to is that I can contact them and ask if they will forward their reports to Mrs Zenia Stampe and other doubters who may then be made to believe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180001	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180003	But if students and other teachers try to push, for example. Speak R or Ferdinand Ahm Krag out of the Academy of Fine Arts, could it not point out that, funny enough, supporters of diversity are often opposed to diversity when it is attitudinal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180027	Yes, it is a very precise analysis, and indeed also supported by the report we have received today, which speaks precisely at the Academy of Fine Arts of Fine Arts of how people have felt able to ask some of their fellow students not to speak in a certain way or to do art in a certain way. That's exactly what we want to get rid of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180049	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, so the next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180111	Yes, thank you for that, President. The Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts is an honorary and historic institution in Danish cultural life. It dates back to 1754 and has been designed from the outset to create foresight, innovative art and artists, and we must ensure that it can continue to do so, and we must ensure proper democratic and transparent conditions for employees and students. In principle, the Ministry of Culture and the Minister for Culture are responsible for the Academy of Fine Arts, and we have seen time and time again that the current form of management does not work. For a number of years we have been listening to many stories that bear witness to poor management of the institution, and here I am also thinking in particular of stories of sexual abuse and abuse of power. Clearly, there has been a poor culture, and it may still be done away with cases where there has been a slump and where there has been no help for students, or at least not the right help. In addition, staff at the Academy of Fine Arts have also expressed strong dissatisfaction with the management structures they are subject to. They point out that there is a lack of clear statements and transparency. They experience that leadership has led to stress or harassment. It is very clear that there is a need for a substantial change in the way in which the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts operates. We must create a structure to ensure that the academy's students, that is, the students, and the employees are heard and heard. The adoption of a board of directors is seen as an incipient democratization of the Academy of Fine Arts, which, I hope, will also be able, in principle, to be passed on to other artistic educations. For pupils, such a structure will ensure that they are heard in the decisions taken in the management of their education, as we know from other public educational establishments, and in this way we will ensure that the problems they experience with the culture and study environment at the academy are addressed. Another form of management will also ensure greater transparency for employees, as they are also involved in the leading decisions, and this will lead to better coherence between management and employees. The Minister has already set up a working group which is in the process of examining how we can implement in the best possible way a different and better management structure for the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts and other artistic educations. Of course, we support this work in the SF, and we look forward to following up on that work when it is completed later this year. But of course we are concerned that we will also get the work started in relation to an increased democratisation of the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts and have a board established.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180357	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Uffe Elbæk
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180400	I have two small questions. One is what I also asked the Minister for Culture. Now that we are taking the debate on the Academy of Fine Arts, in other words how we can create a good organisation and clear management and a precise division of responsibilities, should we not use this opportunity to look at all the programmes? And again, I do not expect the rapporteur to have read the proposal we have made from the Greens. But our bid is to take up the idea of creating a common umbrella for all the educations. What's SF thinking about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180441	I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that I have actually skimmed it through. I am actually looking forward to delving more into it, and I can also see that there are some really exciting ideas to continue working on. When SF is in favour of this proposal, it's to start a process. As the rapporteur was also able to hear just now, this is, in fact, also about a position of principle that we have in the SF, about further democratization of artistic education and, in fact, about creating this board structure, so that we ensure that there are employees as representatives on the board and that there are also student representatives. It is really important for us that the students also have a formal approach to the management work of the courses, as we actually see so many other places. I believe that this can help to contribute and strengthen the process we hope to achieve towards better cultures, among others. The Danish Academy of Fine Arts, but also the other artistic educations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180537	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180539	I fully agree with the ambition that SF has, in fact, words for other things, so I look forward to discussing that further. Now we've had that discussion over several times about this identity policy ravage, which one can almost pictorially see, not least at the Academy of Fine Arts. Does the SF rapporteur feel that it has simply been given too much color charge and that the speakers have been turned up too much and that something that is not so big a problem has been done very much?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180619	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180621	I can at least say that I do not sympathise with some of the politicians who have participated in the debate. And I have to say that, as a starting point, I also have that feeling. When you see out there that you feel offended or that you need to change some things, we have to take it seriously. I was asked today by a journalist in relation to the report that has been published, whether you have been too critical. Actually, I don't think so. We're gonna have to stop talking it down. It is just as in the Metoode debate: we have to take it seriously every time someone comes to us, even if you see it in other educations. Therefore, I think it is important that we take this seriously and get started with a better culture at the Danish Academy of Fine Arts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180707	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180709	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a very welcoming speech by the rapporteur. It is good that we can agree that we call on the government to put forward the bill before the end of the parliamentary year 2020-21. But my question is more in a different direction. When we set up a board, what do the SF and the rapporteur think it means to the Academy of Fine Arts that they get a board?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180742	For SF this means further democratisation of the entire Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, both in relation to the employees and in particular the students. This is particularly where we have our concern, and we have also had an appearance in the past to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, on the grounds of our particular concern for these young people, who do not actually see that they have a democratic right and that they have a democratic direct road to go when there are some things they would like to have done away with. I myself believe that if you had had this structure, it would certainly have been able to strengthen the work of picking up some of these things before it got so bad. This is one of the things we really want to see taken forward. It is clear that when we talk about a management failure in this particular case that has taken place, the case is based on an individual assessment and, in fact, also on a change in the need to have a new leadership. However, setting up a board of directors will also help to qualify that process and, in fact, also serve as a guiding force for the visions that must lie behind such a change in culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180848	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180850	Thank you. That was a good explanation, which I can support 100%. Then there's this report that's full here and there. It's not long, but it's full-bodied, and there's a lot of words to understand. I myself take the view that when a report like this comes in, we should be careful to read it quickly, understand it quickly, and then speak quickly. Does the rapporteur also have that opinion on such a report?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180917	Yeah, you could say that. It's nice that the SF and the Left today can share something here. In fact, that is also why I stressed in my rapporteur's speech that it makes sense for us to see what comes out of the Minister's investigation and the work of the working party working on it, and we look forward to that because I think we should dig deeper into it. But I also believe that we should be careful not to be alarmed by making these decisions. Because although there was no such clear support for the creation of a board structure, it is still there. We believe that this will be the best way to go and that it will further democratisation of our artistic education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180956	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316180958	I hear the rapporteur say on several occasions that a board of directors must be set up, which we agree on as a democratisation. I am also in favour of democracy, but I am not sure that people, for example. would say that the companies listed on the C25 index are democratic. They are also led by a board, but it is not the case that they are democratic in the sense that everyone can go down and vote for them as for a parliamentary election. So what exactly does the rapporteur think about when she says that we must now democratise the Academy of Fine Arts?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181043	Yes, that is also one of the things that may take longer to answer. I'll see if I can do it within a minute of money. However, one of the things that I think is really important or these are actually two essential factors is that there will be representatives of the students on a board and that there will also be a staff representative on the board. In this way, you are directly in a management body which also has its competence and legitimacy from a management perspective. In this way, I believe that more democracy is actually being created for students. They can make organs so they talk directly to the management and in a management forum. One can also see in the report that has been published that one has actually tried to be accommodating and responsive and to create various forums, but it has been unclear what has actually come of it and where it has ended up. Here we are just creating a structure with a direct and straight road which I believe will strengthen democratisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181140	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181141	But that is exactly what the report warns against. It says here at the bottom of page 19: "It leads paradoxically to the opposite of what is assumed by the rapporteur, and then I quote further from the intended, i.e. inefficient meetings, unclear meetings fora, unclear agendas, gathering of meetings, etc. It will be a jumble and a marked lack of efficiency. That's not what the SF wants, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181211	No, it definitely isn't. But if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also had just read the previous, it did not actually refer directly to introducing a board of directors at the Academy of Fine Arts. It referred to a number of more informal meetings organised at the Academy of Fine Arts to meet the criticisms that have been made. In this way there is not really a transparent, direct, clear chain of command. That is what we are creating by creating a board of directors. In this way, we say that this board has them and the competences, and when there are some representatives of the students and of the employees, they have a direct way into the management forum, and then it is clear which way you can go on with some of the areas you think are problematic and which you should do something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181259	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181301	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I am very pleased that the rapporteur and the Socialist People's Party are in favour of this resolution. So much credit for that! It takes some courage to stand with all of us, I think, and I recognise many of the premises that the rapporteur has put forward today. But could the rapporteur not help me and perhaps Mrs Zenia Stampe just to confirm and explain what identity-policy issues have been and which are precisely why we are tabling this resolution today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181339	In SF we have never been too good to go together on the good cause, no matter what party color may be behind. That is where we always think it is most important. So that's why we're on this case today. In relation to what identity issues there have been, I would say that many of the stories are personally based and experience-based. In fact, I do not want to go into this in the personal field, and I have done so throughout the process and also used it to motivate this proposal, because that is not what it should be about. I don't want it to be about a personal hetz. It should not be about SF thinking that this is right and about experiences in one way or the other. But I can certainly see that there are problems, because that is what is being expressed, and that must have been resolved. When you also have a culture where things are kept quiet; when you have a culture where you experience that you have been offended, then I think there is really good reason to do away with it and say that we must now have a better culture on education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181450	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181453	Thank you. I can only say that we then have a majority in favour of that resolution today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181459	I don't have anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181502	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316181523	Thank you. I have been looking forward to seeing the news of this report since this morning, i.e. the study of the conditions at the Academy of Fine Arts and, above all, the conditions surrounding the havoc of identity policy. Since it came out this morning and we were able to read it and, above all, its conclusions, I have really looked forward to today's debate. Because I feel that it is clear that if there really was a sick culture and a culture of fear and distrust and domination and totalitarianism, that was something we had to deal with here too. However, for a long time now I have also had the feeling that this is just something that has been blowing up a lot, because some people might not quite think they had enough political resistance in here, or that we apparently did not have enough ideological wingsus in our debates in here, and therefore one had to invent such a ghost of identity policy that one could then debate. And so, generally speaking, I do not believe in ghosts, but if you believe in them, I think you should at least provide some kind of documentation for them, and that is where I think the debate today has just revealed that it is really difficult when you ask people. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt: Well I've got some e-mails, and they say so, etc. etc. In other words, is it really sufficient to talk about the ravages and totalitarianism and, by the way, to go so far as to interfere in who is to sit on the board of such an educational institution? I think that this whole debate has the very reverse logic that some people are using this ghost to legitimize their own totalitarianism. That is what all of a sudden makes it possible to interfere. It's quite strange. And that is not the same thing as saying that I saw the identity policy blue-stamped. I barely know what it is. I think that maybe sir... Henrik Dahl is an expert on it in Denmark. Actually, I don't think anyone knows more than Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt on identity policy, and certainly not those who exercise it. But we can then listen to the experts, and there is sometimes so much fun in Denmark, because in Denmark too there are a lot of Islam experts, and so they are not themselves part of that belief, but it is people who are outside, who are experts, and I think it is a bit like that with identity policy. We have an incredible number of experts on identity policy in here who tell us that this cultural ideology ravages and majorises and stigmatises and bullies etc. etc., and I just want to say that if there was evidence, yes, we should do something. But it seems more and more like a big ghost you've pumped up in exchange for being allowed to interfere with your own totalitarianism, and I think that's disgusting. I would therefore also like to say that I am very much in favour of a board coming to the Academy of Fine Arts, but it is not to interfere with what is happening at the Academy of Fine Arts. It is to defend the Academy of Fine Arts against the totally inappropriate form of politicisation of the art and the Academy of Fine Arts that takes place from in here. And when we read the report published this morning, it says in several places that the problem is not the identity-political incidents at the Academy of Fine Arts. The problem is the way to talk about the problem, not least externally. It also says, and it is in fact in the recommendation to have a board of directors that you use exactly the same argument as we have that a board can also help manage the interface to a live and critical media-borne public. And that's what we've seen. The last year, I should like to say, it has been the case that it has been very difficult as a cultural politician to get newspapers to write about your political proposals, but if you have something, a peep, something about identity policy and some people who are offended, they are happy to stand up and be quite clear. Finally, if I may say something that has offended me a little bit, it is in fact that we have a cultural life that is lying around because of corona, but yet it is God help me the Academy of Fine Arts and this ghost of identity policy that fills the column up and split down. I do not think that is doing cultural life a favour, so to focus on a great ghost instead of going out to see that it actually stands really, really hard out there, and then give them a helping hand. Instead, you spend your time fighting with a ghost. Now my speaking time is running out, but I can say that we are therefore not on the proposal today, also because we know the reasons for this identity policy. Nor do we like to be involved in resolutions together with the Danish People's Party, which has proposed a DR model for a board of directors. However, we strongly support a board of directors of the Academy of Fine Arts, because we want there to be a protection against the politicisation and the breach of corporate income tax that this debate is proof of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182030	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's Mrs Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182034	Thank you. Oh, my gosh, a light bulb that just got mixed up in one big pot. To mix the rest of cultural life into this debate during the hardest coronatid ever seems to me simply inappropriate. I think it is a lack of respect, and I think it is a lack of responsibility. When we are here today and we have tabled this motion for a resolution, it is precisely because there was a criminal incident that one chooses as head of department to throw a bust in the water, that is to say throw out our cultural heritage. And if that's not a motive for identity policy action, well, I don't know what. For the fact that we are seeing ghosts, I think that is simply also a lack of insight into what is going on out there. After all, this is about us taking responsibility, and I am listening to the rapporteur not doing so. The rapporteur will not take the responsibility of being involved in this before the summer recess, so that we can have a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182147	I would like to take responsibility for the fact that we have a board of directors, but I think we should have plenty of time to do a preliminary work. I fully agree with the Minister. Then I just want to say that this debate on identity policy came a long time before that bust was thrown into the harbor. And in relation to that bust, I would like to say that we agree that it is criminal to throw a bust in the harbor. So that's why the case has been passed on to the police who are investigating the case. And then it is an isolated matter, we can see in the report we have received today. So it's not like every month a bust goes to the harbor. It is not such a general practice at the Academy of Fine Arts. This is a criminal act that is now being investigated. But, of course, we want to take responsibility for finding a new management structure, because we can see that in the report is part of the problem, i.e. you don't have a robust management that can deal with these situations. And it's not least difficult because there's so much political and media awareness about the Academy of Fine Arts that makes it even harder to deal with these situations. And when you don't even have a board you can lean on, it's almost impossible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182248	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182251	I think this is somebody running around in the mess where you don't want to take responsibility. We have students out there who are simply miserable because of many of the things that have been mentioned today. If you do not have the right attitude, it can be difficult to work on, among other things. The Academy of Fine Arts. So I would like to say that I think it is really a pity that the rapporteur and the party cannot be in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182317	I would also be concerned if it were the case that there was an identity policy ravage, but today we have a report that shows that there is not. There is, on the other hand, a gross abuse of some of these individual cases to create a political agenda and to allow ourselves politically to interfere in some things that we do not usually engage in politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182342	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182345	I would just like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Zenia Stampe. Mrs Zenia Stampe's speech makes it clear that she is very, very much here in the Danish Parliament, with her disapprove of identity policy as a problem. Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær made it the title of his speech, that one does not want it, and afterwards he has spoken the same thing. And I'm always happy when the Radical Left is marginalized. When we have a Minister for Education and Research, which was prompted by the debate we had a couple of weeks ago, has taken up the College of Rectors of Danish Universities to clarify the extent of the problem and, as I saw the other night in the deadline, she takes up the things that, among other things, she does. Mr. Henrik Dahl has brought to the market, very seriously, and since we now have a fairly large majority in the Folketing, which today follows a different line from that of Mrs Zenia Stampe, it raises two questions: the first is whether Mrs Zenia Stampe recognises that she is completely marginalised. And the second is: if everything is so bad, why doesn't she just overturn the ministers who think the opposite of her?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182500	It is really funny that we have a discussion here about how it is a pity for some at the Academy of Fine Arts, because they have been majorised. It can also be a pity for people, especially if it turns into bullying. Morten Messerschmidt, who now thinks it is fun or appropriate or entirely logical in this context to talk about how majorised I am. But I can handle it, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. I do not whine, I do not feel offended because it has now been established that I am in the minority. It is not the case that I think: No, I certainly must put together the whole of the Folketing, because it is not acceptable for them to make us radical. What a whining, what an insulting readiness that would be. But that is the way we see things. I just don't really think there's any consistency in Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182554	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182556	This was another profoundly revealing remark made by Mrs Zenia Stampe, for she evidently believes in her own logic that the same conditions should apply in the Folketing as at the Academy of Fine Arts. At the Academy of Fine Arts, we, the vast majority of the Danish Parliament, are concerned that all views should have the same right to express their views, but here in the Danish Parliament it is clear that we are all advocating what we ourselves believe in. And there I think I have to say that for the majority of parties in the Folketing it will gradually be a sweet day on the day that the Radical Left is no longer part of the people's regime. It is not undemocratic, because it is the whole principle of political work. But does Mrs Zenia Stampe really believe that the same principles should apply in the political struggle as at the Academy of Fine Arts? That would be crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182641	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. But I think we should keep the debate on the subject. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182648	I think it is actually very good to look at the Danish Parliament as a parallel to the Academy of Fine Arts, because it is important that we have an art academy where there is great diversity, where all currents are allowed to be there and where no one is majorising anyone. After all, we had this debate a few weeks ago, but there was Mr. Morten Messerschmidt did not have time to be a part of the debate, although he had called for a question debate. What the debate was actually about was whether identity policy was allowed to be there. I feel that identity policy is not allowed to majorize everything else, but it is allowed to be there, like all sorts of crazy currents, which I do not know the names of. But I understand that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt thinks they shouldn't be there at all. That's where we disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182738	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182740	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for his speech and arm movements. It's been very entertaining. However, what I would like to examine a little more closely is part of the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur says at some point that the rapporteur does not believe in feelings. I may have misunderstood it, but it has been said, and I am quite sure that you can go back and see that the rapporteur said: I do not believe in feelings. I think it is precisely the case that if you have to believe in something, it is the feelings, because everything else you have to know about. That may be what the rapporteur meant, but that is certainly not what came out, I think. I think it is very important that we recognise that some people have actually felt bullied, felt offended and felt a lot of things in this situation. That's why the story's come out. I think the rapporteur should acknowledge this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182846	No, it's just amazing to hear some from the blue block talking about that it's just okay to feel offended, you have to take that into account. I also agree that this should be taken into account. I also find it problematic if there have been incidents where individual students have felt offended, but that is not what we have heard from, among others. Mr. Kim Valentin's party, but by the way, all citizens, for it has not been just a single event; it has been almost a conspiracy, i.e. the ghost of identity policy, a totalitarian ideology that has put itself in power at the Academy of Fine Arts, and that is why we have to take control. In short, it is the story that has been fed, fed and fed. And I think we've been so nice, because we're so scared of touch over on our wing, sorry, I'm saying it because you've owned this debate so many years, so we haven't really dared give you any resistance. But that's why I'm doing it today, because I don't want to keep running for some ghost, for which we God help me haven't even seen any evidence, other than that there are some who feel that some have said.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182951	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316182952	Yes, well, I hear what is being said, but I think that the rapporteur completely misses the point. The point is that it is precisely this development that means that there has been no freedom of spirit, and it is, of course, freedom of spirit which is the point of us wanting better leadership. And then I think we should stop pointing fingers at each other. Would the rapporteur not acknowledge, moreover, that freedom of spirit is the objective of this debate, that is what we want to see introduced at the Academy of Fine Arts?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183031	I fully agree with that. I just don't think I have seen anything that provides evidence to say that there is a general totalitarian identity policy culture that puts a huge lid on freedom of spirit at the Academy of Fine Arts. On the contrary, I believe that the public debate and the exposure and politicisation of the Academy of Fine Arts are a huge lid on freedom of spirit at the Academy of Fine Arts, because no one dares to tilt their toes without it becoming a matter in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183106	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183109	Thank you. I think that so far one of the most important contributions to the debate we have had has come from the Minister for Culture, and this is the discussion here about how an Academy of Fine Arts is tied to craftsmanship, it is bound by knowledge of materials, it is bound by knowledge of traditions in the various arts, and I agree with the Minister for Culture in this respect. Faced with the vision of what an art academy is, is the practice that has developed, where PhD projects have been made • and I quote in feminist versions of quantum mechanics and new materialism. Quote out. So the craftsmanship goes out, and what goes in is speech, discourse, the Academy of Fine Arts is a place where you talk about various problems that are all raised by what is called social justice theory. What is the rapporteur's comment on this struggle between speaking on the basis of some theories and learning a craft?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183230	For a long time we have had the debate that there were not enough craft hours, workshop lessons at the Academy of Fine Arts. It is a debate that can easily be held without it becoming a value-policy debate, because I think there is broad recognition of that. That was why, even in our financial act, we had an initiative that was about us wanting to make more workshops for visual artists. But I think so, sir. Henrik Dahl does here, is really interesting, because now Mr. Henrik Dahl a concrete research project or artistic project, or whatever it was, in order, in fact, to exhibit it. But wasn't the starting point for this debate that we wanted diversity, so it's not okay that there's some feminist quantum mechanics, or what it was, if there's room for everything else, or is it just about removing exactly that? That's where I think it's going to be problematic. It would be problematic if identity policy were to steer, dominate, bully, outmaneuver all the others, but it is also problematic if Mr. Henrik Dahl goes in and looks at individual projects and says that what is not allowed at the Academy of Fine Arts is a total misunderstanding of the arm's length principle and artistic freedom and freedom of spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183338	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183344	When I ask, it's because the core of almost all the conflicts Poul Pilgaard Johnsen has uncovered in Weekendavisen is that the theory people who do these quantum mechanical projects systematically complain about and pressure painters who just want to paint or like van Gogh or something out. It is the social justice theory, which is an invasive species that pushes out all the others, and we should not interfere in that as leadership, but we should discuss these problems when there is an invasive species that pushes out everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183426	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183428	That's interesting, isn't it? Okay, so there are some teachers at the Academy of Fine Arts who are invasive species? That's the word, sir. Henrik Dahl wanted to use, and he thinks... Henrik Dahl in a debate about the fact that there are some, it is a pity that we should take action against them because they are invasive species? How revealing for what parts of the Folketing are doing here. It's not about coming to the rescue of some poor students, it's about branding someone as invasive species. Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183506	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183511	Thank you. I guess I'm just a little more pragmatist after all. After all, this proposal is about a board of directors, and now we hear the rapporteur say it is a good idea, but then you will not vote for it anyway, because the proposal comes from the Danish People's Party or New Citizens or some others. We will not vote in favour of it because we do not like the background to the proposal being put forward by some. Is it not identity policy that we will not vote in favour of anything because we do not like those who make the proposal and what they have for reasons of it? Isn't that going to be identity policy as well? Couldn't you just vote for it with the board, and then you could take it from there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183549	We were insecure to be co-sponsors of a motion for a resolution in which one of the co-sponsors has put forward a concrete proposal for a board composition, which means that the board must be appointed by the Folketing and political parties. We are so strongly opposed to this. This is the exact opposite argument we have for creating a board of directors, namely to get politicians further away, but where what the Danish People's Party wants is to get politicians right into the Academy of Fine Arts. That is why I think we did not really belong in that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183628	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183629	I understand that, but I am talking about voting in favour of the proposal here. It may well be that there is another proposal that DF makes, but in this proposal the Danish Parliament invites the government to submit a draft law on a board of directors. It is not the Danish People's Party or anyone else who has to put together that board. We are just calling on the government to come up with a proposal on how we can be ambitious. I have to say, frankly, that the Radical Left has a little more access to the government than we have and to be able to influence it as it should be. That's all it's about. It's not about everything else. Nobody's saying what this board should look like. So it's just a matter of the government making a proposal for a board of directors.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183716	Because we're a little closer to the government, we don't have to go with the bourgeois parties to make this proposal, because it's coming. But there's a little better time to work with it. We can just hear that the arguments for having a board of directors are also very different between us and then the majority of the proposers on this proposal. For all the proposers who have been up here have mentioned identity policy and identity policy ravages, and that now there must be quiet and that we must now take action against the Academy of Fine Arts. This has been an argument for setting up a board of directors. We have exactly the opposite approach. We need to set up a board of directors for the Academy of Fine Arts so that we can learn how to keep our hands off.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183749	Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183752	First of all, I would like to say that Mrs Zenia Stampe is absolutely not alone in the positions that are being communicated from above at the moment. It's just to tell sir. Morten Messerschmidt, that so marginalised is Mrs Zenia Stampe absolutely not. I then agree with the clarity and what it is actually that defines this debate, unfortunately, one can almost say. I have a question. In fact, right now we have the opportunity to look at the whole area. I have mentioned earlier that we in the Free Greens have thought about it, that is our bid for it, and there are certainly other bids for it and the opportunity to see how best we organise it here both for students, for the employees and for the society that should benefit from the artists who are trained from our artistic education. Is it not now that we have to seize that opportunity and then say: what is it really supposed to be like?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183859	So I have to confess that I have not read the proposal made by the Free Greens, and when I saw the title, I thought, and that is perhaps because I have not read the whole proposal: Oh, no, another fusion, that is, a huge education, as far as I could understand. But I have also seen that there have been positive reactions, so I am curious about the action, and I would like to talk about it. I doubt that this is really what is needed right now, but I would really like to look at it and I am curious about it. I myself am not immediately attracted to larger institutions or, for that matter, to such an academy, but that may not necessarily have been the case in the proposal either. That was more the name, I could understand by Mr. Uffe Elbæk, but I'd like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316183958	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184001	Back to what we have experienced through the last few debates here in the Danish Parliament, where there are some of our colleagues who have so much become banner leaders of the entire history of the identity policy ravage at our educational institutions, specifically at the Academy of Fine Arts, but also elsewhere like the University of Copenhagen, Aarhus University, Aalborg University: Now we have a report that says that it may not be so big a problem, and we see a rector of Aarhus University who goes out and says that it is completely missed when we say that the freedom of research is in free fall. Secondly, what does the rapporteur think about the fact that there have now been assumptions and that we are actually starting to have something factual to stand on?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184046	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184047	I think that's really good, and I think you should be careful not just blindly believing in narratives. After all, what is happening now is that a narrative is being built about the identity policy ghost at the Academy of Fine Arts and throughout the university world, without we actually having any documentation to stand on, and the narrative has gradually become so strong that no one dares to go against it. And now I can already see that the bourgeois politicians are texting or writing facebook updates, because it might actually be a little new that I want to call the bluff, or whatever you say, here today and say that I don't believe in that ghost. No one really dared to say that, because that was the truth that was publicly adopted, but I do not believe it. I will always protect and take care of students who feel offended and bullied, but I will not be involved in talking to a narrative for which there is no evidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184141	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to the next rapporteur, who is from the Enhedslisten, Mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184150	Thank you. I have to say that I agree essentially with Mrs Zenia Stampe, so she is certainly not marginalised in relation to the position I have, and I would also like to say now to the talk about feminist quantum mechanics that it sounds exciting. It is the case that one of the important things in quantum mechanics is concepts such as... duality and indiscreetity in principle... some fantastic concepts... and I could imagine a research project where it was so that some really exciting things could come out of it. But that's not what we're talking about here. Our approach to this has always been to have democratisation, and we also hear from the Minister that this is what is being proposed and that it is even being extended, so that it is spread not only to the Academy of Fine Arts, but that we generally have a democratisation of the whole area. So that's good. We would have liked, in fact, to have dealt with the two motions for resolutions, B 109 and B 113, because we think that, in practical terms, it would end up being some of the same things that we might have to say, and I can already see that what many of the rapporteurs are dealing with is precisely the democratisation debate, which is also our focal point, also in relation to the present proposal, B 109. If it was the case that it was boiled down to the fact that what it was all about was that there should be a board of directors and that that board should also be a democratic, in relation to what it is now, that it should be a place where students and employees are represented, and where, of course, there are also people from outside and that is technically based, then I would say that the proposal that lies here is not very different from what we ourselves have put forward by the Enhedslisten. But don't swear here. I'm gonna read a little bit from the suggestion... The Academy of Fine Arts, founded in 1754 as a unique example of offensive and forward-looking cultural policy, where the King and the people who surrounded him wanted to create the best framework for the development of a Danish art tradition...• Talk, talk and nonsense. I mean, is that what they want us to vote for? No, we won't. We will not vote for the king, Frederik V, just being super, that he was really a forward-looking man for culture. No, he created a place where it was so that you could make pictures and busts of the king and the people who were around the king. What has come to later is something completely different, but you put it up like this is just unique! As it says, it is a unique example, and that means that there are no other examples in the history of the world or in the history of Denmark that you have done something so amazing, namely created an institution to produce pictures of yourself. So I am opposed to the approach adopted by the authors of the motion for a resolution; the approach in which it is also as if it is a bust being thrown into the port, and that is what is the starting point for the fact that we have now suddenly got our eyes open and say that we need to be democratised here. But, frankly, no matter what democratic structure we create, and this also applies to the board I myself propose or what might come out of the government committee when we get this far, we cannot, of course, create a democratic structure that prevents people from committing illegal acts. It may well be that there are some who think that if you could just decide who should sit on that board, then you were quite sure that it was a powerful management that decided everything • then also could prevent someone from committing illegal acts. But no, the world isn't like that either, is it? That is why, in our view, the approach is wrong. But we are in on, we must say, the bottom line that is about us having democratized our artistic educations, the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts... like minus the king... and I can see that I have to stop now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184723	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184727	Thank you. I have the feeling that, if it were not illegal, the rapporteur could well go out and overturn the statues out there, as long as there was only a royal gesture on them in one way or another. I'm the opposite myself. I feel that, yes, there can be good and bad if you look back, but you quickly become cultureless, historyless if you do not remember where you come from at least. And it is true that then some things happened when the king had absolute monarchy, which might have been different today, but that is our history after all, it is our culture, and that is what we have with it. We can't just point the finger at it because it's called "royal." What about the Royal Theatre and the Royal Library, do we point our fingers at it too? At least I am not in favour of that. But I hear that we agree in principle on a board of directors, and then let us keep the ball on the court and say: at least we agree on that, and let us do the best we can to keep it on track.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184836	Let us just keep it in line and say that we are in favour of democratisation, and a tool for democratisation is a board where students and employees are in the management through that board, and of course others too, but it is just to have that premise clear that when we talk about democratisation and the board of directors, it is with that premise. And then to calm down: I have not, as far as I remember, knocked down any statues recently or ever, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184910	Then we got it straightened out. Thank you. There is no one else who would like to make a brief comment. Yes, there is just a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, but first it's mr. Kim Valentin for his second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184922	I would just like to say to the rapporteur that I was reassured because I could see that the rapporteur did not have that look at it at all when I said it. So I'm very calm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184937	Otherwise, if you look historically at it, that there is a very good tradition for around the world, that when the tyrants and people you have in different countries are not there anymore, you overturn their statues; there is such a good tradition for that everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184953	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316184956	I'm quite sure that sir... Bruno Jerup knows more about tyrants whose statues have been overturned than I do. But with regard to Frederik V, I cannot help but ask: What other place in the world could Mr. Bruno Jerup intending to live from 1746-1766? Well, what was it in an area in the world that was better than Denmark at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185027	Well, frankly, I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185031	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185033	That's very strange. So that you stand and say that everything was really, really bad, and you allow yourself to make one rough statement about a Danish king after another, without any consideration whatsoever as to whether at that time, with the living conditions that were now in force from 1746-1766, there should be some other place that would be better, is easy enough. It is easy enough to stand here 250 years later and say what you think life should have been like then, but when you cannot even find a place in comparable space and time that would be better, I honestly think that Mr. Bruno Jerup's excesses become a little bit simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185116	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185118	I didn't say everything was bad. I have not said one negative word about King Frederik V. I've just spoken about the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. I have said that I do not regard this as a unique example of offensive and forward-looking cultural policy. That's what I've been saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185146	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Thank you, sir. Bruno Jerup. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185220	Thank you for that and thank you for an amazing debate today. It has been almost two hours, but it is also an important debate. I am very pleased that we are discussing the motion for a resolution on which we co-sponsor the establishment of a board of directors of the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. I am so pleased that we are so many parties across the Folketing who agree to guarantee freedom of spirit at the Academy and to prevent identity-political extremists from taking power and destroying the professionality and cultural contribution of the Academy. I hope that the same consensus will be present in the Chamber when my and Conservatives' motion for a resolution on the establishment of boards of all artistic education is tabled before the summer holidays. For the past many months have offered a violent cultural debate, which is born of the event at the Academy of Fine Arts, where a teacher, together with a group of students, threw a bust of the academy's founder, King Frederik V, in Copenhagen Harbour. I think that is important to note, because that is what led me to react very strongly when it happened. It was a criminal act and we cannot accept it. This is a sad matter, because it says something about the cultural foundation that many of us thought we shared, perhaps not so strong after all. That is why, with this resolution, we are sending out a strong signal that we want to strengthen the Academy of Fine Arts. We take action and we take care of what the report has also shown us today that there is a need. It is important to bring about the necessary changes in culture. We will not accept an insecure study environment where attitudes and bullying and non-right attitudes are part of everyday life. It is important that the composition of a board is based on professional competence and student representation and that a majority of the board must be outside members in order to prevent internal disputes. The board is to appoint the rector of the Academy of Fine Arts, unlike today, when the rector of the Academy of Fine Arts is appointed by the Minister of Culture. The arm length principle is important in this case. When setting up a board, both the Minister for Culture and the Danish Parliament, the public and the employees and students will find a natural place to go when untenable conditions arise which require intervention by the management. I just have to say that at a time of identity policy and excessive attention to differences, it is time to focus on the common, and I think the debate also shows that here today: the common human, what it means to be a Dane in an international time, and how we make the art and this sense of the sublime to play a role in all Danes' lives. The Academy of Fine Arts was founded in 1754 and is a fantastic example of a truly offensive and forward-looking cultural policy in which the King and the people who surrounded him wanted to create the best framework for the development of a Danish art tradition that we had never had before. Let me just stress that art and science flourished under King Frederik V. I therefore hope that, now that there is a majority in the Danish Parliament, the government will take the initiative to table a legislative proposal as soon as possible before the summer recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185538	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185541	First of all, I have great respect for the rapporteur, but I would still like to ask a critical question, because in the speech that has just been made there is a recommendation that we should focus on the common one and that we should not discuss and focus on diversity. And one of the things that is important to all of us, I think, is, after all, to work on inequality and to put an end to inequality and to create a fairer society, there are gender differences, there are racism, there are class differences. And it is a good thing that you can discuss it and put it in perspective and put words and concepts on it, even if you discuss it at the Academy of Fine Arts, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185638-2	Absolutely. We must be able to have differences of opinion and we must debate, and so must the Academy of Fine Arts. The Academy of Fine Arts and the arts can provoke precisely that, that is, art can make us feel comfortable, it can make us feel loved and hated, and we must be able to debate all that in an art academy. When I highlight the common position here, it is because there is a need for some calm now. There is a need for us in this House to make some decisions about the need to create some peace in order to be able to manifest those differences without leading to criminal acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185716	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185718	I fully agree with the objective, which is why I think this one will come home. Nevertheless, I hear different tones in the debate, depending on which rapporteur from the bourgeois bloc is arguing why a board of directors is good. And the image that has been drawn almost by a regime that is at the Academy of Fine Arts, I cannot recognize when you actually now get a factual report that says that of course there are conflicts, and of course there can be bullying, but that it is not very much more than what we see at other educational institutions, which may be wrong enough already.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185804	Thank you. I have not been out to mention the word regime, so the other rapporteurs will have to stand up for that. I think it is important that we take care of the situation that is out there; it is important that we look at reality. And the incident that took matters into your own hands and threw something into the water was just an extremely strong act that I think requires action from us in here. That is also why I have tabled the motion for a resolution that we should have boards of directors to strengthen the management, the pupils, the surrounding society that is part of these courses. And I cannot understand why people out there are opposed to this, because this will only be a welcome strengthening of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185904	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185906	I also think it is important that we bring peace to the Academy of Fine Arts. However, when I read the report that we have received today, I think that some of the things that have caused concern at the Academy of Fine Arts are that there are so many who have an opinion on what is happening at the Academy of Fine Arts, and not least in connection with this bust action. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur: what had been the right reaction to the bush happening? What was it that management should have done that it didn't do right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185944	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316185945	Well, there is no doubt that the management made the right decision by dismissing the head of department. But this was just the icing on the ice on an obviously bad culture at an academy where students are miserable and where management cannot get through with its management. There are obviously some structures at the Academy of Fine Arts that need to get a proper ride seriously, I was going to say it wasn't meant to be that way; it's late that needs to get a proper review and to get some support so that we just get a board of directors that can strengthen the upcoming management at the Academy of Fine Arts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190042	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks ▪ no, sorry, Zenia Stampe wants a brief remark and had pressed in before.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190053	Honestly, I think I lost a little bit too. Well, now I remember what I was supposed to ask. I just wanted to ask, what does that bust action have to do with someone feeling bullied or mistreated? So, does Mrs Birgitte Bergman have some kind of evidence that there is a connection between that crazy action that is now being investigated by the police, where the right one belongs and that there are some students who are miserable? What is the connection between the two?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190130	Thank you. I have also been approached by the Academy of Fine Arts, and I see that this has been the icing of some events and of a culture that prevails at least in parts of the Academy of Fine Arts, which makes students feel insecure. Because if they do not have the same attitude, it can be difficult to express oneself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190156	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next thing we need to make room for is sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190210	Thank you. It was a good thing that the rapporteur did not say that they needed a ride in the tub; it would have been a little too symbolic in this situation. Well, leave it alone. This has been an exciting debate. I sometimes feel that I enter like a fly on the wall in a 20-year marriage between the Radicals and the Danish People's Party. Well, the incinerated is leaking down the walls of the two parties. It's great to be part of observing. And so, in the past, you've seen it from the outside, and you've thought, is that really it? Then when you come in, you see that yes, it actually is. One can simply see that it must be such a hate-love relationship, and it is like a married couple who have lived together for 20-30 years: it may well be that they are very unfamiliar, but they may not quite be without each other after all, can they? I think the two parties feel the same way. However, if I have to deal with the proposal here instead, I would say that it is of course a question of whether a board should be set up, i.e. whether you think it is a good idea or whether you think it is a bad idea, and then there may be all sorts of reasons behind it. I think it is a good idea for a board to come in, and that is why I think the government should come up with a proposal to set up a board, and that is as far as it goes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190323	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190326	I am simply so pleasantly surprised by Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's approach here, because it is so pragmatic and fresh, and I understand that it can be a little comical to look at Mr Boje Mathiesen. Morten Messerschmidt and I were debating. But what I'd like to ask you is, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen has had some thoughts about the composition of the board. For that is where one of the differences is between us and the Danish People's Party, and I do not think that is an insignificant difference, and that is why it was important that it emerged today. It is, of course, the position as to whether it should be politically appointed Members sitting there or whether it should be some who are politically independent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190402	Now I just want to say that I didn't say comical. That's not the expression I used about it. And no, I do not yet have any views on that. I simply do not have that yet, because it was a proposal for a board of directors, and if the proposal is voted through, the government will come up with a proposal on how they think it should be composed and then we will have a debate on it. So no.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190422	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190427	The plea that Mrs Zenia Stampe has used against our proposal to be inspired by the Danish Radio model is that it would, like it, increase political governance, the political element. And I have not been able to understand that argument, but on the other hand I have never tried to get an answer out of Mrs Zenia Stampe either, so I am now trying with Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. If sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen looks at Danmarks Radio, does he immediately think that the fact that there is a political governance on Danmarks Radio has made Denmark's Radio so distinctly Danish Folkeparti-friendly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190505	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190513	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316190531	The report on institutional relations at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts contains four main points: the conditions at the academy have not been worse than in other educations, the management has been incompetent, politicians and the media are making the problems bigger than they are, and the community and the common ground are missing. The first point I would like to make is that the academy is no worse than other educations. For Poul Pilgaard Johnsen from Weekendavisen, I am not reassured by the analysis that has just been published, I am concerned about it, because anonymous snitching and violent bullying, frankly, do not belong anywhere. A great acquaintance of the Academy of Fine Arts is Berlingske's architectural editor, Holger Dahl. And I will admit that I am colored by the fact that the editor for the last 60 years has been my brother, but nevertheless, because of his education and his many, many years in the industry, he knows what he is talking about. And here is what he writes in today's Berlingske: "In the same way as it was student Marxism that killed the free university after the youth uprising, one can say that it was the identity policy that ended up killing the free art academy. A weak management allowed pseudointellectual, politicizing nonsense to conquer the agenda at the Academy of Fine Arts, and we see the end result today. Since the management didn't clearly tell the woke activists that all opinions must be discussed at the Academy of Fine Arts... then they released the dementors. If anyone has forgotten what a dementor is, then it is a fantasy creature from the Harry Potter universe that sucks the spirit out of living people. If you can believe in Berlingske's architecture editor, and I would say this based on many years of experience, that you should, then the core of the academy's problems is a weak management and then this pseudo-intellectual and distorted identity policy, which makes the academy stop being an academy where you learn to become an artist, but becomes a branch of social science where you talk and talk, and never really make real works of art. To be honest, throwing one thing in the water can any idiot find out. It's not actually a work of art. And the Minister for Culture is right that a real work of art is artful in some way. You have to learn how to do that, and it's this debate about what's really going on at the academy, because it's not really an art to splash a thing in the water. Kids can find out when they're a year and a half old. What is the problem is such projects as this. a PhD task, called "Feminist versions of quantum mechanics and new materialism" or "Echopheminist and post-Marxist criticism of the anthropocene's prerequisites," drives the Academy of Fine Arts away from being a place where you learn to work with materials and learn about the history of art, all the craftsmanship, the craftsmanship, the artwork, such as... leads to the glorious paintings of Olaf Rude, which we are looking at every day when we are on the platform, and which I do not think one could learn to produce by giving lectures on quantum mechanics and neomarxism. In fact, I think you should learn a great deal about mixing colors and disposing of your material on canvass, etc. etc. These are different variants of the social justice theory, which is an intolerant form of theory which pushes out other theories, and that is what is at the heart of the criticism expressed in, for example, the report by the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment. Poul Pilgaard Johnsen's articles. It will not be a simple task to reconstruct the Academy of Fine Arts, but a good first step is certainly that there will be a board with equal parts of efficiency and love for the true art, and therefore the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191032	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191039	We almost had to do a road show together, the good rapporteur and myself, about identity policy, because there really are some extreme positions. The reason why I rise and have a question for the rapporteur is one of these. The discussion about what a real work of art and true art is. I mean, when I hear concepts like a real work of art and true art, I think it sounds totalitarian. It may well be that the rapporteur has his subjective assessment of what a good work is, but to put it down throughout the discussion I think is actually very problematic. And in relation to some of the things the discussion is about, which is also in line with what the Minister for Culture has said about the crafts themselves: yes, I also want a good craftsmanship. But I also want the teachers of the Academy of Fine Arts to have a language and a concept of what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191147	Well, all I can say is what I've said before. In other words, I fully agree with the Minister for Culture when she stresses that works of art need to have a certain height of work. And what is really at stake here is to produce works without work height. To plum a thing in the water while giving a speech with a figure of 3,000 lix, is not art, but is to plum a thing in the water while giving a speech with a figure of 3,000 lix. That's cheating the bourgeois music. It's fooling people. These are the emperor's new clothes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191226	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191227	That's what I'd think if that was the reality. However, good artists from the Academy of Fine Arts are trained, who are trained good film directors from the Film School, who are trained good actors from our performing arts programmes. So, the picture drawn up by the rapporteur is that Danish art is in free fall at the Academy of Fine Arts. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191257	Well, you don't train performers and film directors at the Academy of Fine Arts, so that's why it's in itself distorted in some way. But I have no doubt that the prerequisite for Thomas Vinterberg to be nominated for an Oscar for best film director is not that he has given a lot of lectures on quantum mechanics. It is that he has practiced and practiced in directing films and probably also had a certain talent for it in advance. It's the drill, it's the craft. And the Minister is just right that it does not come by giving long-haired lectures with a lix number of 8,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191337	Mrs Zenia Stampe, on a brief note.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191340	I just need to hear how I might not have written it properly about the neofeminist quantum mechanics and ecofeminism or what it was. Henrik Dahl, that it simply should not take place at the Academy of Fine Arts because it is not art and because it has no relevance to art and culture?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191400	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191400-2	Well, it raises the same good and important debate that the Minister for Culture has raised several times, and I have read that she does so on other occasions than today. Is the Academy of Fine Arts a place of education in social sciences? Is it part of social science or part of physics, or what is actually going on there? But what matters is, in fact, whether these theories are what the criticism is, which has come out many times, like to push out a painter, because he likes van Gogh. Then they say Van Gogh is not politically correct, and you have to get out. That is what has been at the heart of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191444	Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191446	A student has said this in an article a year ago as such. It is not because some major study has been carried out where there are a lot of students who write that if you like van Gogh, you don't belong at the Academy of Fine Arts. Well, I think this for a parliamentarian who tends to pride himself on his own academic background is rather thin-legged. I can easily understand that discussion about theory and practice, but is art just a craftsmanship? Well, couldn't you just as well read art at technical school if it's just a craft? And by the way, there is nothing more than a craftsmanship, but if it is craftsmanship like being a painter or a carpenter, why should you study it at the Academy of Fine Arts?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191537	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191539	When it's a really good idea to have an art academy, it's of course because it's some kind of master's lesson. And the way you become a master in your craft is, of course, going with some other masters. This has always been the way in which education was organized. That is the discussion we still have, because the discussion is very much about professor schools. In fact, I am a little surprised that the professor schools have been closed because the way to becoming a good craftsman is master's teaching, and I think it is a mistake that the Academy of Fine Arts has been akademised in the way it has been academized. You've been pushing the master's lesson out. Because it's also a discussion about pushing out the master's lesson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191616	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191619	Now Mr. Henrik Dahl, yes, Olaf Rude's paintings, and I don't know if that's a subtle point, sir. Henrik Dahl is after, but I would like to ask that question. For it is so that when the two paintings, after being sketched for the members of the Danish Parliament, came into the house in 1954, cows had suddenly been added to it.There had not been in the original sketches, however, but only red cows, which caused many members of the Danish Parliament to complain that it was an East Danish image that was seen, because the red-broked cow was known primarily from Lolland, where Rude had lived part of his life. And it made me wonder if one can say that these pictures are perhaps the first example of such political artivism, that is, that the members of the Danish Parliament gathered and insisted that there should also be black cows on Olaf Rude's paintings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191720	I think it's going further back. The city council in Aarhus forced Arne Jacobsen to put a tower on his town hall, so it was also violence against a great architect that this tower had to be put on, and he was very unhappy with it. I think this whole thing about the patronizing thing goes a long way back in history.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191740	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191743	Thank you. I have enjoyed the debate in full. The last words in the rapporteur's speech were about the true artists or artists I didn't just hear if that was it; I'm not so good at listening to them, but what are the true artists? Now I come from Silkeborg, where Asger Jorn stumbled all his life, or large parts of his life, when he was not out in the world and incited to artistic battle. He made a virtue of being able to violence against other people's works of art and paint on top of them, etc. Some love romance, others love impressionism, etc. What are true artists? Isn't that a concept of taste judges that is a little dangerous to work with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191832	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191833	I simply believe that in the field of perhaps not only art but also in the academic world, which I know better, there is some concept of work height. A true work of art is, of course, a work that has some kind of work height, and who defines when the work height is high enough is of course difficult to determine. This is also the kind of thing you discuss when you decide on a book or an article: Is there a height of work that is so high that it is a true work of art? And for me, a true work of art is just some work of art that reaches above some work height, and by the way, I don't care what it's like. And the Disturbing Duckling, as Mr. Christian Juhl refers to is a wonderful work of art, which I have had hanging in a reproduction at home with myself for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191924	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316191925	It's a shame it's just a reproduction, you might say. But I just think that a lot of art is time-dependent. Now you have for a long time been discussing Frederik V and a time when it was the elite and those who had the power in society, who clearly determined what was good art and bad art, and what was art that was to be prized and what was art that was not to be prized. I think we have reached a stage in development where there is indeed the possibility that ordinary people also have a certain influence on what is touching you and what is moving society etc. And that's why it's a little old-fashioned to talk about the true art, besides the craftsmanship as the little part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316192008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316192008-2	Yes, but why do new generations still read away • The Emperor's new clothes • With great joy? Well, that's because the emperor's new clothes can also be read as an adventure about work height. For what has succeeded, for some charlatans, is to make the emperor believe that something that does not have work height • his new wardrobe, which has no work height at all • has a fantastic work height. And then the baby comes in and says he's not wearing anything. And it is also a discussion about work height to say: this has nothing on it. And as a work of art, throwing a thing in the water has nothing on as a work of art; it becomes because it rematerializes itself into a whole lot of discourse with a very high lix number. But these are the emperor's new clothes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316192053	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Uffe Elbæk as a privateist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316192114	Thank you. In fact, it is always a pleasure to have these debates in the field of culture, and although sometimes it may also take some time, it is actually some exciting discussions and some questions of principle arise about democracy, ideology, art and society. Of course, sometimes it also gets high-flying, but I actually think it's interesting every time. In relation to the proposal, which Mr. Kim Valentin as the primary sender on it, I'll start with what I agree with. I can only support what is being proposed in any way, namely a board of directors at the Academy of Fine Arts. I can also support the ideas and considerations that have also been mentioned in the course of the debate on self-serving institutions, and in general I think all our art education should be self-serving institutions and have boards of directors. So dad, so good. I really think so. I can easily understand the intention of the proposal with the small difference, and that is where the waves are really beginning to go high. At least there are some of the rapporteurs behind the proposal who argue that we need a board of directors because, as I said, this identity policy ravages at the Academy of Fine Arts. The reason why we in the Free Greens think it is good for a board of directors is that it can protect the educational institution externally from the Ministry of Culture and changing ministers of culture, us politicians, the media, in other words, that there is a board that can shield the education. On the inside, of course, it is because it is good that when there are conflicts among students, among employees and it cannot be resolved directly where it is going, you have a place to lift up the conflict. So I can easily see the function of a board, and not least as the public debate about the Academy of Fine Arts is going on right now, I really would have liked the Academy of Fine Arts to have had a board that could have screened the principal and taken these discussions with the Minister of Culture and also the Culture rapporteurs. I can easily see myself in the proposal. I also think, on the other hand, that this is the second best solution, because the Free Greens have gone out with our own proposal. Now that we are looking at the whole area, should we not try to find an even better solution and not just take out an institution, but find a model that strengthens all the programmes and that makes the programmes work much closer together for the benefit of what is being produced there and the students who are going there? So I just hope that this is only the start of a much more exciting discussion about what the whole area looks like in the future. When we last discussed identity policy, I referred here from the platform that I had talked to both students and staff at the Academy of Fine Arts, and the picture they drew was that, yes, sometimes the waves in the discussions go out loud, not least among the younger students, and perhaps also sometimes too loud, but they could not see that there was any agreement between the picture that was created in this Chamber, but also in the media, and then what was going on at the Academy of Fine Arts. Finally, we now have a report which is only half of the total, but that is to say the first chapter of the report that the Minister has put in place, and there I think I am being confirmed in what was my subjective experience through the talks I had with students and employees, namely that it has been blown up to a degree by some of my political colleagues in here, so that it simply does not correspond to reality. I think it is quite okay that you have assumptions that something is wrong, but then you also have an obligation to investigate it and find out what the facts are. I think that understanding the difference between assumption and fact is absolutely crucial when we are also talking about fairness. One of the things that comes out over and over again in the debate is that identity policy is a threat to our freedom and quality of research, and in this case also what is being produced in our artistic educations, and I do not recognize that at all, and that is not what those who have written the report recognize, nor is it what our rectors of our universities recognise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316192624	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is the draftsman of the opinion of the authors of the proposal, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316192655	Thank you. I would like to sign for the good conversation that has been here today, but also in connection with F 21. Many of these are repetitions, but I also think it has been the expression that there has been a period of reflection after the discussion we had on F 21. Well, you could say that, like Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen of New Citizens says this: What is the problem? We lack a board; there is a management that needs to be strengthened; however, make the board. That's how easy it can really be said. I also think that there are some details in this resolution which may also be worth discussing. That is why we are taking some very long talk about identity policy, that we are taking some very long talk about how to make management that way. I always feel that when you make some decisions of this kind, it's nice to be able to reflect, and it's nice to find some knowledge to lean on, but when you've done that, it's also important that you make a decision and not draw the decision too long. That is why this is also an expression of the fact that there is a majority in favour of us working more quickly on this resolution, faster than what the Minister has proposed. Because if the Minister wanted to work more quickly on a board, perhaps we would not have been here today, then perhaps we would have just said: well, Minister; we support it; come up with a proposal on it. And that is what we are asking for in this debate. That's it, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen says, a quick decision on a board of directors. I think it is right to mention that it does not have time to make the kind of identity policy which has found its way to the Academy of Fine Arts and which has found its way into the management form that has been or maybe has been the case, we do not know that this is one of the things the new report reveals at the Academy of Fine Arts. But there is no doubt that I do not think anyone in here has said in this way that throwing a bust in the port is wrong, so we agree on that. So there's a lot of things here that we kind of agree on. We may also agree that you should not use it in teaching to take a bust, go to the port and throw it in the water just to show your point. But the important thing in this is how did we get there? How did we come to the situation that we are now discussing what we are discussing? Well, that's because they haven't solved it themselves; it's because there hasn't been a consensus in the management that it's not possible to do such things in the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. It is therefore a flagrant management problem. And that's just something that needs to be resolved, and a board of directors is a way to solve it. One can see from the report that has come that there may be many other ways of solving it. My own experience from many, many years in business, without making any direct comparison, is that it is very good to get a professional, independent board to give impetus to some decisions in everyday life, to give some inspiration for one to dare to make decisions that may not always be what the majority wants, but that is what brings the institution forward. This is what is important to have strong leadership to develop around. We have seen, without having to dive so far into it, that freedom of spirit was also a shortcoming. In fact, it may be said that freedom of spirit is essential for me and the Left that, when you have an educational institution, you have freedom of spirit. It is simply a very important basis for one to be able at all to become a skilled, whatever it is, at an educational establishment. There must be freedom from the spirit. A board of directors will provide a basis for us to have a basic confidence that there will be freedom of spirit in the future if the board is professionally informed and if the board is independent. It's pretty important ingredients in it. The proposers of this proposal see the board as a democratic strengthening of the Academy of Fine Arts, which is important in creating the necessary changes in culture and in maintaining a good culture. The strengthening also comes from the fact that the students are also given a representation on the board, as is the case with other educational institutions. It says very well what it is about as in other educational establishments. Almost all other publicly funded training establishments have a board of directors responsible for compliance with applicable law, recruitment and dismissal of management. This gives a healthy form of management, where the problems are dealt with in the run-up rather than pile up, as we see at the Academy of Fine Arts. That is a bit of what the report actually points to. The Minister has set in motion a study to make recommendations for future organisation and development of artistic education, including the Academy of Fine Arts. That's fine, but why should it take so long? The survey shall be completed in October 2021. There's gotta be a way to do this faster. I welcome the fact that in the case of F 21 there was broad support for the proposal for a board of directors of the Academy of Fine Arts, and that proposal is what we are discussing today. We have since expanded with proposals on boards for a number of artistic educations, including: Film school. On behalf of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I should like to thank you for the debate. I am pleased that there is a willingness to solve the management problems of artistic education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193506	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193512	Thank you for your speech and also for bringing the debate to where we started a few hours ago, namely that there are many good reasons for setting up boards. Something is about identity policy, something is about democracy, something is perhaps just about making a smarter chain of governance in relation to our artistic education. And then we are down to the fact that what separates us is a few months; a few months in which we have the opportunity to involve all of them as it is about, all of them we have discussed the last few hours in the Parliament Hall, both those who train the art students, the art students themselves, and those who are going to hire the art students in the future. Was it not worth giving them a few months to work on how they can see it making sense out in reality before we simply pass legislation here at Christiansborg? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193605	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193605-2	It is always possible to discuss the length of time that must go by. We believe that it is a good time to take it forward to the end of the parliamentary year. It should be borne in mind that it has already been a while, and if the Minister had moved this from the start, it might have been that we had been a little further ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193634	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193636	It is certain that much could have been different, but in relation to where we stand now, does the rapporteur, who is, after all, from a large and responsible party, not think that it makes sense to include those we are talking about and to give them the opportunity to develop, not just the board part, but, in other words, the entire management part of artistic education, before we just come back with legislation from inside? Does it not make sense to give them the opportunity to participate in the machinery room and influence what the structures and governance of the future in artistic education should be like?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193711	One could also turn the question around and say: does the rapporteur not think that it is a good proposal that we should speed up so that we have rapid and effective management at the Academy of Fine Arts? I think it is a question of how quickly you want it to happen. I don't think much more new knowledge comes from spending six months instead of spending two months if you really want to do this. After all, it is a question of an institution in crisis. Let us help as soon as possible. Six months is a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193749	Sir. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193752	Now something was mentioned about the board and the composition of the board. I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur has considered that parts of the board should be appointed politically by the Folketing. It has been aired in the debate how much influence we have in this regard. It is in order to hear from the rapporteur how we also ensure what could be called the arm's length principle in relation to that board. Several people have mentioned this today. Like the two questions, how much political involvement does the rapporteur think there should be, and how does an arm's length principle be ensured?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193847-2	It is the position of the Left that it should be independent and that it should be based on a very high level of professionalism, because it is professionalism that creates the quality of management. That is our attitude towards it. It can then be said that we may not decide on our own, and that is why we look forward to the Minister calling for negotiations on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193912	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193914	Thank you. Then I would just like to ask a supplementary question about those who, as it were, appoint the people to the Board of Directors: is it the rapporteur's approach to that, for example, that? the students must appoint representatives to the board? And is it the rapporteur's view that the staff of the Academy of Fine Arts should have the opportunity to appoint the people they want on the board?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316193943	There is a risk, if I answer it, that I will be too square in my opinion about something that I would like to go to negotiations on. I feel that I would like to ensure the best possible independence in this, and I would like to ensure that students have a place on the board, and then we need to find a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194004	The next brief remark is to Mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194009	I actually think, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær had an important question for the rapporteur. We know that there will be a report in the autumn, and we are listening to everyone agree that we want a board of directors for the Academy of Fine Arts. Was it not possible with the pragmatism, which I also believe the rapporteur possesses, to sit down with the Minister for Culture and find out how we can do this properly? Because there is a process in progress where there are people who make recommendations, and they are just around the corner, so we should not say: okay, this has been a battle, but basically we agree that we want a board of directors, and what should it actually look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194108	I mean, if I were Minister for Culture I wouldn't be so, I think I would be very focused on the fact that there is actually an institution here that has some major management problems, and it would be my main concern how I could solve it as soon as possible. So the pragmatism that is being called for, I think, should also lie in the fact that there is a consideration of how we actually solve these things so that we do not find ourselves in an educational limbo. For some of the students, it will be a big part of their study time if you spend almost a year getting a board in place, which then first needs to create a strategy for the future. So I wanted to speed up that process very much, and that is what we are trying to do, as we are trying to get the Minister to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194213	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194214	I mean, I fully understand the intention, namely that one wants to solve a problem, but I just think, as I said, that there is a group of people who are sitting here and actually finding out all the best knowledge and will make the very best recommendations, and I would really urge the proposers to take a good meeting with the Minister for Culture to try to see if you cannot find some middle way in this, so that we can all see ourselves in a solution forward-looking. On the question of taking care of what is going on or has been going on down at the Academy of Fine Arts, I think it has already been taken care of, and they still have a ministry and a department to which they refer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194301	There were a lot of things in it, sir. Uffe Elbæk said here at the end, which intervenes in each other, but I would like to address one thing here, and that is that you think that something has been solved because there has now been pressure on it and all this, but it is not. It's not solved. There isn't strong leadership yet. There is no strong governance at the Institute, and that is what we are focused on being able to get as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194333	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194337	Without defending illegality, I would like to ask whether it is not a reasonable degree of art to get the Danish Parliament to come together to have a reform of the management of the institution, by throwing a reproduction, i.e. a copy of a mass-produced sculpture of Frederik V, into the water. That's what I call art. There are many who spend many years at all to have less influence on the Folketing, and I think that in itself gives food for thought. It is not a unique work of art that has been destroyed or something like that. It is a plaster cast of a work of art which has been produced in quite a lot of copies, and that is why I think we are exaggerating with those big words that it is violence on our common history, and I do not know what has been said in this debate. I just mean, isn't it also the department's job or the school's job to develop artists who create amazement, reflection and reflection about the life we live, so it's not just about good craftsmanship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194452	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194453	All the first, as the rapporteur said, I just have to say that I cannot follow. Even if it's the 100th cast of something you destroy, I don't think you should ruin it. I must distance myself from that. That is why I must also say that what is fundamental, and I believe that we agree, is that there is freedom of spirit. But freedom of spirit must, of course, take account of the legislation that exists. You always have to follow the law in the country, don't you?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194536	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194539	Now we have the rule that you have to follow the law, and if you don't do it all the time, you take the punishment you get for it. But it is, for example. quite interesting that at least every year, we have to say 25 reproductions of Asger Jorn up on the incineration in Silkeborg, because people don't want them hanging anymore, and then they buy some new reproductions. That doesn't change the way you think. But this special reproduction, which lost its identity, then creates a violent debate. And I think that in all the accident and all the terrible things and you can distance yourself from it, and it's illegal and things like that, fine enough, and it's quite right that it's a bit impressive that such a random little incident can create such a big and important debate that we're now having about a board of directors in the royal halls.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194636	I would like to repeat something that has been said earlier, and I do not remember who said it, but we really have to say a little thank you for seeing that there was such a big problem as there was. It can then be said that it is such a strange situation that it was precisely the bust that went to the port that made us see that we have a serious problem. I'm not here to thank anyone for committing illegal acts. I just have to say I don't. And I am of the opinion that perhaps the Minister should have looked at this matter sooner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194717	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194743	The debate is open and will be opened by the Minister for Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316194752	After all, I was able to make exactly the same speech that I made two and a half to three hours ago, and I will try not to do so in the interests of the listeners and out of respect for the authors of the motion, who have a different view of the matter here. It is precisely about democratisation, it is about student democracy, and I would therefore just like to confirm that, from the point of view of the government, it is also an essential part of the process that I wish to outline in conclusion. After all, it is the students who have also given rise to all this debate, the students who will always challenge us because that is what young people are doing. But the interaction that exists between having institutions that must be responsible for some continuity, and so letting young people be rebellious, is really very much what this debate is all about. How do we make room for the rebellious, the free voices, while there is still room for continuity and diversity in those expressions? Yes, there the Social Democracy will always be where you do the best, and you do the best by creating a clear framework for how to have that conversation. One might be tempted to call the democratic conversation, but in this case it is an artistic conversation. But art and society will always be connected, because art is always a representation of, a reflection of, or a provocation to, the society that is, or the society that has been, or the society that you dream of having. Therefore, it is also very important and very relevant to talk about giving students a vote, so that we give young people respect for what they always have to do, namely challenge and ask whether we could not create a better world, but also create a framework to teach young people what values have gotten us as far as we have now come. In relation to the students at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, I have had a dialogue with both KSF and DSF, which are the artistic students and the Danish students respectively, and they have also been given the opportunity to appoint members to this committee, which is now to clarify all the issues that may be about setting up a board, not only at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, but at the artistic programmes widely. They will help to provide the concrete solutions that we can subsequently take a political position on. I will just have to repeat a few words from my previous speech, again in respect of the fact that this is a new proposal, and say that then the Academy of Fine Arts has been a great deal upset, and that a great deal of mistrust has been created for the institution, for the education that there should be, where it has really been a wish for the government, even long before the bust went into water, that we got a more craftsmanship focus on our artistic education. Mrs Zenia Stampe asked me a little polemical, I think, in the previous debate, whether it would not be as good, if it were all to be craftsmanship, to be able to take an artistic education in technical schools. There I really hope it was polemical, because in some way one could answer, because the knowledge of material is actually the same, but then no, because no more than nurses have to go to a workshop, or carpenters have to learn the same thing as school teachers, there is also a huge diversity in craftsmanship. This diversity is also reflected in the way in which we have to put together boards for artistic education. That's why we need to take the time to do this properly. Is it by chance that although artistic education in the large educational image is actually relatively small, they have been allowed to continue as small courses and have long avoided the large fusion waves and even still belong to the Ministry of Culture and not to the Ministry of Education and Research? I don't think it's a coincidence. In fact, I think it is because there has been a broad political recognition that this is some special education that needs to be seen in their diversity, seen for their speciality, but the speciality will go the whistle if they suddenly become academised. You can study all the things you can study in artistic education at the university, but at the university it is with a theorizing of how the works of art could have been, what might have been behind them, while in artistic education it is about the craftsmanship. The craftsmanship is one of the main focus areas of this committee's work, but in the meantime we have also launched a study to shed light on the problems of teaching, study environment and organizational culture at the Academy of Fine Arts. Today or yesterday, the Ministry of Culture published the first part of that study. There's gonna be another part. But it is important that we do not mess up the two studies together. The first part we have now is part of the fact that we are hiring a new principal who can be the fresh start. They must have some analyses to work on, so that the situation at the Danish Academy of Fine Arts can be stabilised as soon as possible. But the other thing about boards is that we have to do it thoroughly. Therefore, the committee I have mentioned, where students also have representation, has been allowed to work until 31 October 2021. And frankly, I was a tiny bit puzzled by the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Kim Valentin, in the previous paragraph, when he said that the Minister did not focus on this and that it was indeed one of the issues on which he, if the rapporteur himself were the Minister for Culture, would have the greatest focus. 'Cause now I've had the pleasure of working with Mr. Knox. Kim Valentin, also in his capacity as mayor, and if there was something we could always agree on at the time, it was that it was so unbearable that when the Folketing came up with those quick, easy solutions without involving, without taking into account that there is also a daily life and an operation that should work where people actually expect to be involved. This has had the greatest focus. As far back as August, I began to reply that this government wanted to discuss artistic education in relation to crafts, in relation to the Film School at the time, also issues that they raised. And then I must also remind you of something very right in fact, as I think Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radicals said in her speech: this is a major and serious problem, yes, but you know what the Ministry of Culture and the Minister for Culture and the Government have done. While we have also put together this committee, we have been busy day and night with you to ensure that there was even a cultural life, and to ensure that there were even artistic institutions for the Academy of Fine Arts to train artists for. Still away when we are discussing here in the Chamber and here I have to quote my wise boss, and there is also a reason why she is prime minister. So we have to remember when we just swing up and debate various individual matters, what kind of situation our society is in, and, in particular, cultural life. I know that the opposition's task is always to keep the government going and make it do it a little faster and make it a little better, and we help each other with that. But we also need to remember the context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316195618	Thank you. This gave rise to a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316195623	I will not ask the same questions; we have almost had the debate once. But I have two things. One is that I am actually very, very much in agreement with 98 per cent. of what the Minister has said. However, like the other, I have such an obs, and it is that the Minister for Culture has, on many occasions, also outside this Chamber, struck at the fact that it is the craftsmanship that needs to be the focus. I am, if anyone, also opposed to our artistic education being over-academised. Well, that's not my agenda at all. However, I think we should be careful to romanticise the whole discussion about crafts, because if we look at other arts educations around Europe, it is important to be able to both the craftsmanship and also to be able to put it in perspective. In fact, I believe that some of the problem at the Academy of Fine Arts has been that there has not been a proper language and conceptual apparatus in relation to the teaching that has taken place down there. So I think you just have to be careful about overromantising it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316195735	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316195737	Well, I can't follow at all how it's going to be an overromantization. If you look at the movement that our universities are engaged in, this is all about, even at our scientific education, constantly reaching out to the business community in which the solutions that are being researched must be able to work. So the thing about having a relationship with the labour market, the industry and the sector in which you are going to work is, in fact, a movement that is in progress, contrary to what is outlined in relation to some of the artistic educations, in which it is not only the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, but also, for example, the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. The film school, which screams guard in arms and says: Listen here, the reason why Danish films win prizes, and the reason why Druks has been nominated for two Oscars, is not a scientific theoretical consideration; it is a concrete craft, that is, how to make films.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316195840	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316195843	If we sat down and had a cup of coffee, maybe we'd agree that. What I'm just raising the flag for anyway is an anxiety, in relation to whether theoretical instruction will actually be made, including at the Academy of Fine Arts. For the whole idea of the movement in which the university reaches out and says that we must also have practice and, of course, we must have a balance between theory and practice, and that is also true at the Academy of Fine Arts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316195915	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316195916	Well, the balance between theory and practice I actually see is more discussion at universities under the Minister for Education and Research than at artistic education. Of course, one must also learn theory in artistic education, but it goes without saying that it must be in a subordinate role, while during the education and research programmes of the Minister of Education and Research one can well argue that there will be courses which are one hundred percent academic, i.e. theoretical. So I think, in fact, that the discussion about the balance between theory and empiri is wrong in relation to artistic education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316195956	Thank you. Sir. Kim Valentin from the Left, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200000	Thank you, and thank you, Minister, for another proposal for the same debate. I don't think we should spend the time talking to each other in this case. It's too important for that. In other words, the reason why we are bringing it up at all, and the reason why we are standing here today, is that we have wrestled our arms a little on the minister and then said that we are not satisfied with the process that has been around it. That is why I dare to say to the Minister that perhaps some of the processes that have been set up might have been thought a little differently. It is important for the Left at least to say that it is a long time for an institution not to have proper management. There may well be a little more focus from the Minister on how to get it, and that is what this resolution is supposed to do. Can the Minister accept that there has been a poor management and that things have to be done a little quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200106	I can't comment on staff cases here on the Danish Parliament's platform, but as we also mentioned in the question debate, there have been different views on how to move forward from the situation in which the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts was in. Now we are recruiting a new rector, and the name of the principal I hope to be able to publish as soon as possible; and with the analyses from which the Danish Parliament received the first part here recently, a very good basis has been created for the new rector to be able to go in and create stability while taking the major decisions on permanent boards on all artistic educations. I don't think that's dragging things off. It's been a few months since the bust went into the water. We have been working on this since the Film School raised the issue; but to introduce boards is not a quickfix, it is a structural change that we have to do properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200212	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment. Excuse me, sir. There's another comment. Kim Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200215	I guess I don't have to press in one more time when I need a second comment. Well, I'm sorry, I wasn't aware of that. But in any case, it leaves the new headmaster a place where you do not have proper support until quite some time has passed. And if you say it can be handled by the principal himself, then the principal must create a new strategy, which must then be looked at again when a board of directors arrives. After all, it creates such a strange limbo effect... will the Minister acknowledge it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200252	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200254	I would acknowledge that this may be a risk, but I have a well-founded hope that we can recruit sufficiently good rectors for our artistic educations, even when they are in high waves. That is exactly what happened at the Film School, namely that we actually hired a rector who even openly walked through the door and said: I am only here temporarily. But it was with this temporary principal's sure leadership that a new debate, a new way of dealing with these problems, was created. And that is why I believe that a permanent rector of the Academy of Fine Arts will be able to do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200332	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200335	I have often complained that there are too many academics in the Folketing, and then people have asked me whether there should only be workers and cleaning women. No, there should not be, because there must be an interaction between the work of the hand and the spirit, and there must be an interaction between good theorists and good practitioners, because then we will have what is called a dialectical relationship between the two arts, I had almost said, and then we may also have some solutions where some have their legs on the ground, while some are hovering very high up. And if they can talk, we can get something out of it. So can a school like that, and that's why I'm a little sad when you focus so much on the craftsmanship. There are unskilled artists in this world, and there are also artists on our construction sites. In my own business, we've never learned anything, but we can build the finest houses and the biggest bridges and everything else in this society because we've listened to old masters, and we've practiced and practiced and rehearsed. Therefore, it is important that we find the balance, that is, what was called the polytechnical principle in the 1970s, that is to say the interaction between theory and practice; it must be the basic element of such a school, otherwise we will not get good artists out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200448	In fact, I perceive Mr. Christian Juhl's question is a little in line with some of that, Mr. Uffe Elbæk asked if I would acknowledge that there is a balance. And there I would just like to repeat that for the government, the balance is more for discussion at the universities under the Ministry of Education and Research than at the higher artistic education under the Ministry of Culture. For the whole prerequisite for them to be there is precisely that it is about educating artists. You can also have the empire and thus have the craftsmanship with you when you study literature history at Aarhus University, like me. did at some point. There were also writing courses, and there were also quite a lot of my fellow students who wrote a little along the way, and some of them have even become writers. But the discussion is there. In artistic education, the main focus is clearly the craftsmanship, the practical one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200550	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200552	Now I mentioned earlier Asger Jorn, and he was so self-taught in all disciplines, both with regard to the challenge and the art-making, etc., and it hasn't become something that was just a time-dependent art, but something that can be used timelessly and can challenge. And there I think the art for a teacher is to create the desire for his subject, the love for his subject, but also the desire for art to both challenge and marvel and not just create pleasantness. I think that is an important thing, and it must be said that it is not always possible to learn it at a university or at a higher education at all, but it can be a part of that when you study how other old artists have actually burned for things and created change with their art.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200645	Well, I actually saw the question more as a kind of comment, and I just want to say that in the government's approach to this, there is also no template for what good art is. Good art can be beautiful, good art can be provocative, good art can be soothing, good art can be upsetting. That's not the point. The point here is precisely to safeguard the speciality of artistic education in relation to university education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200718	The next brief remark is to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200723	My question actually revolved around some of the same things that Mr. Christian Juhl was talking about. Because I think it is really important to recognise that when we talk art, there is both some practice, but also something that we should perhaps not call theory, but philosophy. Well, in some way, art is the practical philosopher of life, of who we are and who we want to be etc. etc. I understand that social democracy has sometimes had such a need to oppose academy as well, and perhaps it has also taken precedence in some areas of our society, but I would be very sad if social democracy were to slash spokesmen for an art concept that is only material. I mean, when René Magritte makes a painting like that, where it says this isn't a pipe, it's not just about being able to paint. It's about getting an idea of how we get people to see the world in a new way, and that's what has to be room for in the equation as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200837	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200839	I will by no means override the point. On the contrary, I would like to acknowledge the point that art makes us see the world differently. But I would like to point out that this is not some kind of political expedition. In fact, this is an art understanding which is opposed to all the philosopher who is going on at the universities of the Minister of Education and Research, who can be the philosopher without any manifestation other than words you say or words you write. In artistic education it must manifest itself in a work and thus in something that has a physics in a different way from that of the philosopher in other higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200923	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316200925	Actually, I can understand that. There may also be some theory and academic knowledge that may be relevant to artists, but I also recognise that it is perhaps another type of research being carried out at the Academy of Fine Arts. I have to say that this is also one of the research that has been heavily attacked in here, because it obviously does not meet traditional academic and scientific criteria for research. I think that is where I hear a recognition from the Minister that some of the practical research that has to take place in an art academy can therefore be more active than that, for example. look at educational and research establishments elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201003	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201005	I hope that Mrs Zenia Stampe has neither heard me nor the Social Democrat rapporteur judge what kind of practical training we see. We just want it to be close to practice. If it is to be activist, it must, of course, come up with something new, but it must come up with something new that so much likes to challenge something existing, but without perhaps destroying what others stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201037	There are no further brief comments to the Minister for Culture. Then we thank the Minister. Kasper Sand Kjær of the Social Democrats... Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201109	Thank you for the floor. It is, of course, a little difficult not to deal with this as such as a second round of the debate from before, which is why perhaps I would just refer, for the sake of the Minutes, to everything I had said during the debate on the previous motion for a resolution, B 109, and then perhaps just make a few comments on the debate we have had. But perhaps just to jump to the conclusion of this motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, which is, of course, the same conclusion as on the resolution before: it is a great yes to boards, including from the Social Democratic Party. It is not only because someone has thrown a bust in the port, but above all because we need to patch up the democratic deficit in our artistic education. And that's why I think Enhedslisten here hits the tone very cleanly, in terms of what it's all about. Then I would just like to make a recital after the debate that we have now had on the previous resolution. I think that we have come a long way in relation to various theories and in relation to identity policy, is it there, or is it not there? But if you boil it down to substance, in relation to what it is that we want to do in this Chamber, it now appears, at least as I read the picture, that the disagreement can be boiled down strictly to a matter of months. Or if one were to be a little more polemical, one could say that it is a question of whether one is willing to wait a few months to involve students, involve employees, involve management and involve actors and buyers in the work of finding a good way to manage and manage our artistic programmes. So I think I would just warn against that, but suggest that we take the time that it takes and just wait for the committee of the actors in the field, which will make their recommendations in the autumn, so that we have a good and thorough discussion, not just on the issue of boards and not just on the Academy of Fine Arts, but so that we actually have the opportunity to include the whole palette, and to the extent that it makes sense, we also include the discussion that arose before, when the Minister for Culture was on the platform, about how we find a much better balance between the crafts, the theoretical and the academic aspects of our artistic education, and maybe it would be something beautiful to make them banners of a new way of celebrating craftsmanship in this country too. So there is no one in this country who carries out vocational training without having any theory; how else could one ever learn to build a house or a car or anything else? It's not a matter of craftsmanship or, well, we can take that at that time. I'll just look forward to discussing with the Danish Parliament's parties as well. And if the disagreement has to take place in a few months' time, I will nevertheless allow myself to go up from here and conclude that it then looks as if it could be a very broad settlement we can make, to create a new governance and management model for artistic education. And then I think that the roads known to the conclusion are many so often in politics, but I wonder if we can find each other in a model of how we lead them smarter than we do today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201450	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kim Valentin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201454	Thank you. I always think it is a good idea to find each other, which is why I would like to say that there is a majority to speed things up, so we should not find each other by not waiting a few months, as the rapporteur says, but by speeding things up a little. Maybe that's the way to go instead. I could also refer to the fact that if the Minister had moved on to this immediately, we would not have been standing here. So you can take that up too. So let me just say about it with a few months that if I am counting on it, then from 5 June to the beginning of the Folketing there is at least 3 months. So it can never be a few months; then it must be three months or five months, as the rapporteur thinks. It's just a recital.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201543	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201545	In any case, I think I would just like to warn against the urgency of the matter and vote through this motion for a resolution without having heard the people it is about. So it's just an appeal to the great party responsible, as the Left is, that in the committee reading of this proposal we are trying to see if we can't find a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201607	Sir. Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201610	Thank you. I'm pretty sure we'll find a solution. Well, I'm very sure of it. Whatever it is, I should not be able to say now, because right now we are just putting in place for the Minister to work on things until the summer recess. But will the rapporteur recognise that if you leave an institution without real leadership for longer, it will be worse than if it is in a shorter period of time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201640	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201642	Yes, but no one has changed the management model that it has been for many years. I mean, it's complete. The Academy of Fine Arts and the other artistic educations are the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, which employs a leader for the day-to-day running of the training. This has been the case for many years, even under previous governments, as Mr. Kim Valentine's party has taken the lead. I think they should keep it running until the autumn, where we can then really start this discussion. After all, we all agree that it needs to be changed, so there is nothing in it. But it is not because there is a complete absence of management; at least there have been many years of changing governments to be held accountable. So I guess it's not the months from now on that's gonna do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201722	Mrs Zenia Stampe for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201725	For several years we have been talking about this handicraft behind schedule, that is to say, the lack of workshop lessons, which means that some from the Academy of Fine Arts come out without having had the matter enough in their hands to also go out and produce and sell works. That is a very real problem. But I just think I can trace between the lines that mr. Kasper Sand Kjær and also the Minister for Culture and Social Democracy as such accuse the Academy of being over-academised. I do not know whether that is perhaps the answer to some of the slightly long-haired theories that have been mentioned today. Should we understand that it is not just a question of there being too little craft focus, but that there is also too much academying and can we then get some examples of what kind of academy is there today that does not belong at the Academy of Fine Arts?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201827	I think there is a picture that it has become too academyized. I think sir... Henrik Dahl has had some excellent examples of some of the themes that have been touched upon. It has also been suggested in the debate how, for example, we have had courses on post-colonialism and such things. Actually, I don't know if I think that's part of being trained as an artist. But I really do not think that the arrow points first and foremost to the Academy of Fine Arts. I think that the arrow points in here and to all those who for too many years ran around talking about Denmark being a knowledge society, and that we should just live off everything we could think and read into in the books, and that we should never produce anything again with our hands. It is, of course, the discourse that has led to the removal of practice, not only from universities, for it has been for many years, that we have also been removed from our medium and short-term higher education, and that we now have teachers who are better at Rousseau than at practical teaching with children, because we have given priority to teaching lessons rather than internship. It has been a discourse throughout our education system, and of course it has also infected artistic education. So then the arrow points in here and on all those who have been wrong about what Denmark is going to live on in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316201929	Okay, so that's because Social Democracy is critical of some of these theories. I don't get it written down, but what is it now, sir? Henrik Dahl used to say "Is it ecofeminism and feminist quantum something?" Is it just too long-haired? And post-colonialism? One can certainly discuss whether it should end up in bust actions, because I think we are all a little out of touch with that, but is it really irrelevant to the art of dealing with such theories? And by Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær enough about the theories to really relate to it? I personally don't, I must say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202014	I shall not make myself an expert on the current discourses in art theory. I just think I note that some of the discussions that you can hear that have been going on at the Academy of Fine Arts seem to me to have worked, I would almost say very far away from reality. Of course, there must also be room for this, and somewhere where you have to train new artists, you must also dare to think both long-haired and out of the box, and what do I know? I kind of feel good about that. But that is the point of saying what the main task is here. And is it a long course in post-colonialism, which is the key to educating future artists? I'm just not sure it is. But that is one of the things we need to discuss. I am not here to say that we must now introduce a law that cancels it. But this is the discussion that I really look forward to having with each other, because ultimately it is about how we create even better artistic education that produces more skilled artists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202107	Sir. Uffe Elbæk for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202110	In fact, I find it difficult that we continue to create such stories, which are primarily on our reflexive assumptions, and those assumptions and tales become such a manifesto, and now it is that there is an overacademy at the Academy of Fine Arts. I don't know if that's right, and I don't know what the facts are. On the other hand, I know something else, which is the fact that the economy has deteriorated at the Academy of Fine Arts for a long time. In other words, they have to close down workshops, which are otherwise what the Minister of Culture says is very important to maintain. So the problem is a poor economy and then we now have evidence that there has also been a poor governance structure. I feel like it's like we're comparing apples and pears, and I'm terrified that much of this discussion is based on assumptions and not on facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202223	I believe that the question of why cuts have been made at the Academy of Fine Arts for many years is probably an issue that needs to be addressed to some of the colleagues on the other side of the Chamber when they come to the platform. Together with the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, we have lost the savings on artistic education, on cultural life at all, and have abolished the re-priority contribution, which has strengthened all parts of our education system. I therefore agree that the economy also plays a role, and this, combined with poor management or poor management structure, provides a very dangerous cocktail. But when I talk about super-academy, I'm just saying that it has also happened at the Academy of Fine Arts, of course, because it has happened throughout our education system. Through far too many years of education policy, we have made becoming an academic the purpose of the whole journey through the education system. It's not about becoming an entire human being, it's not about doing something you're interested in, passionate about or talented about, but it's about how far up the stairs you can get, and if you can't get far enough up, it's a failure. That is why we now also have high schools, which have just become a major preschool for universities, where what they should focus on was how to get even more skilled school teachers, nurses and educators into our welfare community. So, of course, that over-academy is also there at the Academy of Fine Arts, because it is everywhere in our educational system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202335	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202336	I fully agree with the rapporteur. But what worries me in this debate is that as politicians we go in and define which theory is the right theory and which is the wrong theory, because it creates exactly what the same people criticise the Academy of Fine Arts for, namely totalitarianism. I am terrified that we in this Parliament are going to interfere in what individual educational institutions are going to teach. I hope there is an arm's length principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202413	There has to be. That is what we need to strengthen, that is, the arm's length principle. One of the reasons why we have to make a board is that we shouldn't be standing in here having that discussion, so it's a discussion that they can have on that board, that is, the discussion about what are the relevant theories to present to our students and where the art moves to. There we have to have some people, I can at least say on my own behalf, which is much smarter than me, to define what are the right theories. But the form of governance that has taken place has also moved the discussion into the Chamber, and that is what we must do about it. And I have no intention of controlling what theories they teach at the Academy of Fine Arts, but I suspect that it does not reflect what would be best in terms of educating future artists. I do not want to put an end to this, but I want to establish a board that can do away with it and where you can have that discussion with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202458	Sir. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202500	This might be an extension of Mr. Knox's. Uffe Elbæk's comments. Because I hear the rapporteur talking about some specific projects, formulated projects, which the rapporteur does not think belong, and so, in other words, inside the rapporteur's head, there is almost a list, and as we dig long enough and our mailboxes are open, we will have other examples which can, as it were, be included in that list and which we in the Danish Parliament can then deal with politically whether we think we are in the middle. And now the rapporteur himself says that the rapporteur is in favour of the arm's length principle, but what I would like to ask is: how do we ensure that? Because it must be precisely that it is the board that hopefully comes as a result of what we are doing now, who like to approve or accept what kind of projects should be and to what extent they can be used or not be used. It cannot be something that goes beyond the political landscape every time someone does not like a particular word, feminism or something, appearing in some project.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202616	I can see that I was moving a little out of a dangerous path when I answered Mrs Zenia Stampe's question a little too frankly when she asked about concrete examples. I should have refrained from doing so, because I think the discussion has now been completely derailed. Because my point is exactly what Mr. Bruno Jerup is talking about, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk is talking about and, as I am sure Mrs Zenia Stampe also thinks, it is a discussion that should be on the board. What the relevant theories to present to our future artists is, I'm sure the board will be when we get the set up, much more qualified to respond to than I will be, and with good reason. Because that is not our task in here, and it is precisely the absence of a board that has brought that discussion in the first place. But if you ask me as a layman, that is, if mr. Bruno Jerup asks me as a layman whether I consider post-colonialism to be so important a theory that it is something that our future artists should bring, and I will say no, and that then there are more important periods in history to study and discuss in order to create art that also questions both our past and our future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202717	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202719	But then it must also be clear here that what we are going for is not that we should have an art academy where the rapporteur as a layman has to decide what is up and down and right and wrong which theories are. It is therefore something that lives in another world, where professionals and people who, like having insight into and knowledge of this can relate to whether it is a proper project. Otherwise, and I hope we will also agree on this, we are on a slippery slope, as I think we may have been in some of the statements that have been made today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202807	I share that. After all, we are not in here discussing, just as it is not up to me and my laymen to consider what theories they are being taught. At the mathematics study or literature study, at the university or at the pedagogy education or in high school it is something that we leave up to the professional management of our educational institutions and to our teachers, also to select and sort the content as part of the formation. That is how it should continue to be, but what has been the challenge with the Academy of Fine Arts is that one has had an absence of the management to set the direction and to discuss the professional development, and that is why we have this discussion and have now spent a few hours on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202849	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316202913	Thank you very much. Now we are about to enter the fourth hour of the debate on the same subject, so the arguments are beginning to be a little repeated, and so I am not going to draw this very far either, but merely to note that we in the Left agree with the authors of the motion that there is a need to optimise the governance of the Academy of Fine Arts, and that is something we can agree on from the outset. Then I would like to point out that we do not agree with the way in which this is done very, very specifically in relation to the composition of the Management Board, and that is why I would just like to say that we cannot support the proposal. We can't be familiar with leaving the students any longer than is good, and therefore we also think that the right thing to do is to do it very quickly when we know that we have already spent a lot of time discussing and discussing these things, and very quickly in this context is until the summer break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203105	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203133	Thank you, President. The proposal here lays down, among other things: up to the need for students and employees to have an equal representation on the board of the Academy of Fine Arts with other board members. In this context, I can refer to what is shown in the much-mentioned report today on page 19 of the section "Council Democracy and Centralisation," and I quote: "There are many examples that both employees and students at the Academy of Fine Arts have wanted to have an increased direct impact on cases and development processes. Changing managements have tried to meet interest by opening up increasingly engaging forums and meeting activities. This is both sympathetic and consistent in relation to the fact that the institution is relatively small in terms of numbers of staff and students. However, there is much to suggest that the breadth of the academy's art works and the variety of the various workshops and materials lead to a form of council-democratic organisation, where too many will discuss everything with everyone. This is not the intention, but rather it should be seen as the negative unintended side effect of an influence ambition that does not succeed organisationally. Not surprisingly, this type of unspecified influence structure leads to a decision-making vacuum where accountability has difficulty in attaching itself. Paradoxically, it leads to the opposite of the intended, i.e. inefficient meetings, unclear forums, unclear meetings, gathering of meetings, etc. It will be a jumble and a marked lack of efficiency. On this basis, the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203317	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteurs from Mr Seligman. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203322	Well, it's interesting that sir... Morten Messerschmidt rejects the proposal by reading a paragraph from a report and that paragraph is about a description of the state of things as they are. And it is then used as a justification for not supporting a proposal that is about making a board, which is very strange, since the rapporteur himself was up a moment ago in favour of a board of directors. But perhaps there is such a logic that can be difficult to see for outsiders.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203417	I don't know if it can be seen, but at least it can be heard, because I just said it. In other words, what makes us unable to support Enhedslisten's proposal is that it specifically states that students and employees must have some part of the representation on the board. I hope it went through more clearly this second time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203429	Then there is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203435	But what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is using as an argument against this proposal, which we also do not support because we just want more time to think about what is the optimal model. Because what the criticism is about is a host of different committees and a very unclear management structure. But Mr. Morten Messerschmidt that having employees and students represented on a board of directors is a unclear management structure? Because it would not be the only place in the Danish education system that employees and students were also represented on the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203516	No. What I am saying must be understood in the concrete context, as I say, in relation to the Academy of Fine Arts. That is what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203520	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203522	So it is precisely at an art academy that employees and students should not be represented, unlike other educational institutions. Can I then have an explanation as to why employees and students in an art academy should not be represented in contrast to other educational institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203542	I'd love to. This is because the majority in the Danish Parliament can see that there has been a tendency for a very unfortunate development at the Academy of Fine Arts. It may have gone over the head of Mrs Zenia Stampe because she shares the idiosyncrasies expressed by both teachers and students at the Academy of Fine Arts. However, a large majority of the members of the Danish Parliament are very concerned about the identity policy and, indeed, the general political development that is at the Academy of Fine Arts. And therefore it would not be appropriate to say that the people whose company the majority of the Folketing is concerned about should spread in and have direct management responsibility. But I understand that if you are radical, you will of course have radicals on the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203621	The next brief remark is to Mr. Uffe Elbæk, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203628	I think this is actually really interesting. Well, I actually think that's really, really interesting. This means that democracy only applies to those people that the Danish People's Party believes have the right attitude. Is that how I should understand the explanation that has just come from the platform that because Mr. Morten Messerschmidt believes that there are some employees or some students who have a certain attitude, can they not sit on the board?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203703	Not generally, but when there has been a pronounced problem at the Academy of Fine Arts with people who exert a political influence that goes beyond the ability of others to express themselves artistically, it is clear that they should not have a managerial responsibility. This whole task is, after all, about those people who, for the time being, have been harassing and bullying and in other ways have driven other students and perhaps even teachers and their ability to express themselves freely, have to learn to conform. And it is clear that you must have a board that is above them. Moreover, it has nothing to do with democracy. No one can come here with the argument of democracy and demand that you have a right to enter a board of directors at an educational establishment. In general terms, I think it is a bad thing that students have far too much influence on their educational institutions. I mean, I think I was basically more in favour of the professorship, including in universities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203757	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203759	The last thing I have no doubt about is what the rapporteur most certainly saw. But still away: How will the Danish People's Party assess which employees and students are suitable to be elected to a board of directors? So, what kind of mind control or value control is the Danish People's Party here expressing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203826	Well, that's where we're not gonna make it, because we don't want to have students on the board. So it's a completely academic exercise to sit and consider which students it might be. Well, that's not where we are at all. We want a completely professional board, where, as I have said, according to the model known from the Danish Radio, the largest parties in the Danish Parliament can appoint a representative and the Minister of Culture can appoint some representatives, and it may also be that there should be a single employee representative. But having students represented no, I would think that was quite wrong. Moreover, I think that students should spend their time studying and not sitting and making all sorts of management decisions at the institution at which they may study.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203902	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316203924	Thank you for that, President. I do not want to read out the speech I had on the previous proposal, but in reality it is a very good representation of what the SF really means here. On the basis of the description used by the authors of this motion for a resolution, I would like to say that this is certainly something that we also welcome. One of the things that I would like to stress in relation to the proposal that we are now considering is precisely the emphasis that is being placed on the teaching tools which, in fact, must also arise and be emphasised even more in relation to the new culture that we would like to have at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. In addition, we also think that it is as important as the proposers that we continue to insist on a high artistic professional value and that, of course, this is also something that needs to be prioritised in the future work on a new form of governance and also on the board that we in the SF also really want to see arising from this. So it is for us to see a very good way to go to set up a board of directors to create a strengthening of democracy forward-looking on this education, at the Academy of Fine Arts, but in fact also in general terms on artistic education. So I can still repeat that, both for the previous motion for a resolution and for this motion for a resolution. This applies both to the representation of the students and of the employees and, of course, also to those who can represent the artistic value and professional content. We think this is really important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204122	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204127	I just noticed, Mrs. Charlotte Broman Møl bæk Charlotte Broman Mølbæk Exactly) said something about how we want to create a new culture. It is true that there are at least some conflicts which might indicate that there is something to be talked about and a clear leadership that needs to take shape. But I would still like to hear a little more about what a new culture SF and Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk are imagining. Because if I know SF well enough, it's not quite the same reasons you have to support with a new board of directors and a new culture, as we do, for example. Has heard from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt or some of the others today, where there are certain, one might say, art vision, which one simply does not want to be present at the Academy of Fine Arts. I don't think I know SF like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204231	It is good that Mrs Zenia Stampe knows SF well, because one of the most dangerous things we could do was to stick our political fingers into what forms of artistic practice should be, what forms of education should be and how else to practice it. It is not the intention of the SF at all, and it will not be a job in which we will be involved. What we would like to do is to improve the quality of the courses by involving the students and employee representatives even more in the management of the Academy of Fine Arts and thereby strengthening the culture. Then there have also been some challenges that we have talked about before and how much character they have, I cannot explain. I simply do not have enough insight for that. But I will certainly take what I have heard so far seriously, and I think we should take that seriously. Then I just think that we have a strong culture in Denmark at our educational institutions in relation to involving the students and involving the employees, and it just provides a really vibrant, rich and strong educational environment, and I also want that for the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204340	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204342	But does Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk not really agree more with the proposal from the Enhedslisten that is here than what Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk has helped to put together with the bourgeois parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204355	Whether or not I agree more, I think that there are some really clear values that I share enormously with what lies in this proposal, which has come a little later on what I have put together with the other parties. But I still want to support the proposal we made together. In fact, the proposal we have put forward also says that we attach even greater importance to the democratic participation of students by means of the introduction of boards of directors.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204426	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204428	Thank you to the rapporteur. Perhaps that is a little in line with what Mrs Zenia Stampe asked: what kind of proposal does the SF like to go out with? We heard Kim Valentin, who couldn't support this proposal from Enhedslisten, because we were too precise about how the composition should be, so that there should be students and employees on the board. It was like Kim Valentin's reason to say it was no-go. We just heard sir. Morten Messerschmidt, who said that under no circumstances should there be students, and now I hear the rapporteur say something that might be close to what the proposal here from the Enhedslist says. So what kind of proposal are the SF and the rapporteur in the city with? Because it does not sound as if it is the first proposal, B 109, where at least two of the major parties among the proposers, both the Danish People's Party and the Left, are drawing a different path from that of the smaller party on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204551	Thank you. It always gets interesting when one suddenly stands and is the part that is the tongue of the balance bowl. And it is clear that I have been sent to the city because my name is on one of the proposals, and that is because I and the SF fully support the establishment of a board of directors. But since the motion for a resolution tabled here by Enhedslisten shows such good tactics, I think it makes sense that we should join forces. It would suit us all in this Chamber to try to find a common solution. You can at least see the length of the debate that this is something that many of us are very passionate about, and I can also clearly hear that there is a majority in favour of setting up boards. So I think this is a work we should do together instead of fighting over which proposal is voted through, because it is often a rather awkward political struggle, where there is not so much focus on the content, which is, of course, that we have set up boards on artistic education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204652	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204654	I agree with the rapporteur on this. I also think that we should try to see whether we can stand together on this issue, and that includes a consideration which I do not think the rapporteur was concerned with, namely with the work that has been undertaken by the government and which we also appreciate. When we made our proposal, we were not aware of when the government could wriggle with something at least it wasn't on the table when we made our proposal, so of course we are also open to it as well as to pool it with the discussion that is being started by the minister. Then I would like to hear: how does SF stand in relation to giving it a little more time to do this thoroughly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204736	After all, there is a good saying that haste is a load, and in reality it is the SF's view that it makes better sense that we are working hard on things and in fact creating the majority that is in favour of it. We have not determined on any final outcome. The resolution we have tabled together with a large number of parties was, after all, the first of its kind, and now there is just such a broad consensus that I think we should all come together to find the best possible solutions. And, as I said in my speech to the previous resolution, we are also looking forward to the work that comes out of the working group set up by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204817	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Zenia Stampe. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316204835	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, who just gave me the opportunity to go back to the motion for a resolution that we were discussing just now, because Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk pointed out to me that there was indeed something about student democracy, and I would like to credit that because I had not been aware of that fact in the proposal, that is to say that there should be student representation on the board. I'm sorry I haven't noticed. I understand that there was also one of the authors of the motion, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, who hadn't discovered either, but it's perhaps SF's fingerprints on that text and I'd like to congratulate and credit for that. But we cannot support this proposal, and it is not really because we disagree with it. We broadly agree with everything in the proposal. It is just because we want to give the Minister the time that we also think is necessary to deal with the matter properly, but we fully support the intentions and explanatory statement of the proposal, which is, of course, about creating a democratic representation of staff and students, and which, fortunately, is also cleared of these references to bust actions and identity policy, etc., perhaps because, like me, Enhedslisten also has primary motivation and motivation to give the Academy of Fine Arts a board of directors to create a protection against unnecessary politicisation and interference, not least here from Christiansborg. And that is exactly the opposite approach than the one we have seen from bourgeois Denmark, which also does not think that they should be present now during the discussion of this proposal. That is why we cannot support it today, but we fully support the intention and hope that we will then also be able to work together to achieve a proposal similar to that put forward today by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316205027	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I sense that it may be because the debate may have taken a long time I shall not be able to say it. But at any rate there is another rapporteur ready, and this is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316205053	I would like to thank Enhedslisten very much for also tabling a motion for a resolution on the introduction of a board of directors at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. It is in many ways a very sympathetic and sensible proposal from the Enhedslisten, and I myself interpret it as if Enhedslisten has come to the realization that whoever does not learn from history is forced to repeat it. History is by nature something that has taken place, and therefore the idea that one can change history by removing statues and other monuments is merely an illusion. I am so pleased that we are so many parties across the Danish Parliament, including the Enhedslisten, who agree to guarantee freedom of spirit at the Academy of Fine Arts and to prevent identity-political extremists from taking power and destroying the professionality and cultural contributions of the Academy. I agree with Enhedslisten that the setting up of a board of directors will not weaken overall political influence and democratic control, since the Folketing must of course continue to lay down the framework and direction for education. I am sure that with B 109 and B 113 we have the same common objectives, and I welcome that, but unfortunately we cannot support the proposal because the resolution is too specific in terms of the composition of the board and the economy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316205230	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I would like to ask the rapporteur just to prepare for the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316205246	Thank you. Three hours ago, I thought a board of directors was a good idea. I still think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316205303	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. On the other hand, I see Mr. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316205322	New citizens simply have to get the price of the best comment in the course of this 3-4 hour debate. I would say that I am still in favour of a board of directors, and I am really, really glad that Enhedslisten has made that addition to the debate we have just had before, because you are of course putting it at the forefront and saying that it is important with a professional board and not a politically appointed board. And in addition to that, you also say that it is important that the students and the employees have a seat on the board of directors. So from the point of view of the Free Greens, we fully support the intentions of the proposal. What I would really like, though, was for both authors to have a good meeting with the Minister for Culture and to find out how to land it here in a brilliant way in relation to the fact that a study has actually been started. So, although one would naturally like things to go as fast as one has ambitions, I think: 'Well, how would I like the two proposers to meet with the Minister and find out how to land it here in a brilliant way?' So that should be my recommendation. Then I would like to say that this debate has really been interesting to me too, because some of those who support the original proposal from Mr. Kim Valentin, up here from the platform has so much shown an identity-political dogmatism at a level that I do not think I have heard before, i.e. a mind-control and a will to define what it is that needs to be taught in our educational institutions, what theories to use and what one can accept and what one cannot accept. And Mr. Morten Messerschmidt stood here and said that there should not be student representatives and employee representatives on the future board because they had some opinions that the Danish People's Party could not accept. Well, if you just take it in, it's such a crazy statement. So if anyone is pursuing identity policy right now, it's the new political partner and partner, sir. Henrik Dahl and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, and I think that should be clearly stated, otherwise I think there has been a very sober approach across the parties. And although there may be nuances, we all want a strong, good professional board at the Academy of Fine Arts and possibly also at the other art programmes. But with what happened with the statements made by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and Mr. Henrik Dahl, it is clear at any rate that there is a very, very strong national conservative voice of identity policy which has a mind-control in mind. That's how sharp I'm gonna say it. That's what I wanted to say in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316205703	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And the rapporteur can prepare for the next rapporteur, who is the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, and that is Mr Beazley. Bruno Jerup of the Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316205719	Thank you for the floor and thank all the rapporteurs for their comments. I choose to hear the positive things primarily, which is why I hear both from the Minister and from Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær and of course also from Mrs Zenia Stampe and from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and Mr. Uffe Elbæk's clear support, so thank you for that. There are, of course, various comments, and one of the main objections from those who, like us, have been positive about our proposals is that we have also set a date for it to be in this assembly of parliaments. But on that point we are not dogmatics. We fully agree that this proposal we have put forward is part of a process. Now we have had a talk about it, and at least we have, I think, been marked where Enhedslisten is, like, in this debate about how this new democratic development should be not only for the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, but in general for the artistic educations widely developed. We think we have had a good debate, and we have also been made clear where the disagreements are and where is what we, like, need to be sharp in relation to the forward-looking work, including with the committee that is. One of the issues that has been raised in various versions is the whole discussion of the arm's length principle in relation to the political level and then the professional, artistic work and education. That is a very important principle. Another point on which a great deal of sharpness has also been placed, and it is wonderful, is that we have come to know what attitude we have towards the students and employees being actually part of the solution we are making here. I simply think it is very good that it is being held up, because it means something that, when we get started, we do not start at a zero point where we shoot in all sorts of directions. I hear that there is clearly a majority in this Parliament who is in favour of us actually having the arm's length principle, which is in favour of us having professionally funded boards which are in favour of students and employees representing those boards. In fact, I hear there is a majority in favour of this, and it is a pretty good starting point for the work of the committee set in motion by the Minister and what that might lead to, so that, when we arrive in October, we do not start again and discuss from the point of view of Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Morten Messerschmidt's level, where it is so that students who have the wrong political attitude are banned no matter what. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Morten Messerschmidt is not only in favour of it at the Academy of Fine Arts, because the rapporteur said that it is a general principle of the Danish People's Party, namely that the students should not be on any level whatsoever on the boards and managements that we have on our institutions in this country. That is a position, and it is a good thing that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has such a clear position, because then I and the rest of us have something that we can compare with, because it can be said that there are only light years apart in our understanding of democracy and the management of our educations. So in this way it is always good when it is the case that we have such a debate here. It may also help to sharpen or clarify the possible differences that exist, so that we do not necessarily have to talk past each other every time. But, overall, my approach to what I mentioned is that I would like to take this opportunity to reach out to the authors of the second proposal and say that if it is the case that we can find some common ground with the Minister, it is not the case that we have some kind of closed hole to this, but we have a point of reference, and I think that the debate on these two proposals has thus helped to sharpen up what we are going for, and I think that is very good. Thank you for your contributions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316210236	Thank you to the proposer. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316210241	I would almost think it was unkind, given that Mr. Bruno Jerup is dedicating so much of his speaking time to my embarrassment, so I would like to ask, and perhaps we can also get some concrete examples of how Mr. Bruno Jerup imagines that the academic level of the Academy of Fine Arts would be raised, for example, by having the vandalists who threw the much mentioned bust in the harbour. Could he elaborate a little over how the people could so raise the professional level, for I certainly noted that this was the errand of getting the students into the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316210318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316210321	It can be done in many ways. But one of the points is that we have a board of directors. The board we are proposing consists both of some people who are academic, but it also consists of some students, and it is students who actually work professionally as well. A part of studying is also to work professionally, which is why the students themselves have a professional approach to the study, to what they have to do, together with the employees who have a job that is professionally. But when they are on the board, they also have a professional approach to what they as employees should be doing and what they should be doing with the students. So it goes completely hand in hand, and I see no contradiction there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316210406	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316210407	So a first year student, whose primary activity is dematerialization of a plaster bust, says Mr. Bruno Jerup could be an increase in the professional level of the board he would like to put together if he was elected to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316210426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316210427	I wouldn't rule that out at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316210435	Then there are no more brief remarks to Mr. Bruno Jerup. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316210503	The debate is open. Welcome to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316210509	Thank you very much. I would like to start by stating that I, I think, agree with many of the values that the proposal bears, the valuation of the Danish song tax as a cornerstone of Danish culture. I fully agree that the tradition of common singing is a large and important part of our way of interacting informally and formally, and this has been the case for a very long time. Even here, where we have not been able to gather under the coronatide, the common song has found its way from balconies and from TV and on different leaders and edges bound us together when we have not physically been able to be together. The Danes' joy and respect for the Danish song treasure has in no way diminished over time. The sales figures from the High School songbook actually show that it has beaten records several times, and when you hear different football fans, they also always tell you that it is extra festive when there are Danish fans on the laths, because then there is always singing. The great success of the joint song, however, I do not recommend turning into a cannon. I fully agree that guns have been a used tool in Danish cultural policy over recent decades to show something about what you want, but I think that the proposal here today gives an opportunity to clarify this government's approach to guns. Because what exactly is a cannon? Yes, if you look it up immediately, you can quickly confuse it with a cannon, which is quite different. This is something you shoot with, but the way we use the word cannon is probably more in the Greek sense, where it is about giving a guide and setting up a rule. This may be important when you think that something is in danger of being lost, and that is what I saw my predecessor, Brian Mikkelsen, did at a time when a lot of people were talking about internationalisation and globalisation, and when there were also a lot of people, including myself, who might have thought: where is it really going to be that which guarantees our social model? At that time, it was appropriate to create a cannon, a guide, something that we could use to know what was still gone was Danish, in the midst of an increasingly internationalised world. Since then it has also given rise to a great many cannons in various areas, and I think it is fine when they help to create consciousness, but I also think we should remember what they are doing as well. For every cannon also excludes, any cannon also puts things to debate, which may not actually be seen as something that was under discussion, but exactly something that we shared. It may be interesting as politicians to have that debate, because then you have the opportunity to tell me if you think that there should be the most songs from the working songbook or from the Psalm book, and I went home and looked at my book, and there I found both the Spejdersangbog, the High School songbook and the Folkedanser singbook and of course also a nice repertoire of TV-2, Shu-bi-dua, Gnags and Absolute Music, on which everyone can admit it. But is it the songbooks on my bookcase or on any other of the other rapporteurs' or a composite committee of experts to decide which songs really give the ring for which we know the Danish song tax? I do not think so. I believe that the Danish song treasure lives and thrives in the very best way and that it should be allowed to live in all its diversity. 'Cause guns can serve, but we're preserving things that we're afraid are about to go away. We should not preserve anything that lives, that thrives, that unfolds, that keeps finding new ways of expressing itself, but on the contrary we should just give air, give space, give height, give space. I am tempted to say that the Danish song is a young, blonde girl; she walks and hums in Denmark's house, but in this time she sings no matter gender, no matter how strong and handsome, so let her keep doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211012	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister for Culture, and it is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211018	Thank you, President. I actually agree with many of the considerations made by the Minister for Culture, except that the High School songbook should be a framework for what one can say is the Danish song tax today. If you let that look down on the many new songs that have come in here in the 19th edition, you will find that there are quite a lot of songs, including songs. are written in English by people whom I am not even sure they have ever been in Denmark. At least they don't master the Danish language; I feel relatively convinced to be able to say that about both David Bowie, Hal David, Jonny Mitchell and Lou Reed but also many newly written songs by both Mrs Margrethe Vestager, Mrs Dy Plambeck and Georg Metz and other good people, and at least it must be said that it is not songs that have so far found themselves and have sunk completely into the people's depths and are therefore part of the Danish song tax. And it is in that light that I ask whether there would not be a need for 'preservative', as the Minister says, but perhaps I would say more consolidated, because of course it should also be something that we are debating and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211141	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211144	I hear sir. Morten Messerschmidt tries to ask if I consider the High School songbook to be a kind of cannon over the Danish song treasure, and if I have expressed myself in a way so that it could be understood that way, then I would like to deny it. I do not believe that the High School songbook can be seen in this way as a cannon over the Danish song tax. But it is one of the many representatives where I have at least found my love for the Danish song. As church minister, I would also like to highlight the Psalm book, where there are at least a great many songs that are both deeply outdated, but where there are also regularly newly written songs, and as a social democrat, who has both the old and the new edition of the workman's songbook at home, I would also like to say that there are songs I miss when the new editors come forward. But the fact that new songs continue to be written and that they find their way into these songbooks also shows that the Danish song tradition lives and thrives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211244	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211245	You can discuss whether it lives and thrives. I think that many people view the high school song book as where the Danish song tax rests, and it probably did until a 14th-15th version, after which there really was internationalism in it, one must say. And that's where I mean and the Danish People's Party believes that it could be relevant to have the same process of the song tax as we have had with history and democracy and Denmark etc. on top of all this with corona, where a lot has been sung and Phillip Faber has become a people's owner. Why is it bad? I simply do not understand that, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211329	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211330	In my speech I did not try to say that it is a bad thing to make a cannon. It's just not where I think it's most important to put your strength. I think that the Højskole songbook, when it also shows that it continues to renew itself, will also remain relevant. I helped open one of the first high schools for 50 years in Roskilde, and the song that Nephew wrote and performed there has also been included in the High School Songbook. This is precisely something that connects new generations of high school students to the new edition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211402	The next brief remark is to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211406	Thank you. Today we also have a literary cannon, which is a canon of the most well-known writers that teachers, teachers in primary school, can use, so that the students, our children, get through the most famous writers such as Karen Blixen, Kierkegaard etc. And I cannot understand the Minister's argument that it is a bad thing with a cannon because it is something that is static; I do not quite remember the expression. So, doesn't the Minister see it any more that a cannon can help to define precisely the time in which we live and that a cannon can be developed over time, but that it helps to emphasize the time in which we live, in terms of what is important to get through, that is, here for our children, but also for other cannons?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211510	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211512	In my speech I was just trying to acknowledge that the cannon can give this, which I called preserving, by having a unit here. But the Højskole songbook and more of these songbooks are easier to edit than such a great political project, as all cannons have been. I think we are living at a time when there is more need for us to use culture to shape the future we would like to have than to celebrate the past that we have had consolidated; which, after all, lives and thrives in the Danish cultural life. Because we need culture precisely to help us get into a future that is not only technical and mechanical, productivity and efficiency driven, but also driven by social cohesion, out of respect for democracy, by innovation and by sustainable solutions. And there we do not need anything preserving, but something developing, something innovative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211608	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211611	But I guess they're not each other's opposites. I simply do not understand that argument, in other words, when it comes to emphasising something that is important in the time we live in whether it is about the song tax, literature or some works. I don't understand how these things are each other's opposites. For a cannon is also something you develop over time and something you can take hold of again. But it is something that helps to emphasise what is important in the time in which we live.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211649	If this was a cannon trying to draw a future, I think we could meet there too. But all the guns I've come across, and the proposal I saw here today, was precisely about creating a selection of what is that I think we're a place where we've come together on what's inside us and ours to quote a good Danish song now. We know what it is. We have a strong culture. Now we need that culture to shape the future. Culture is more than paying tribute to what we have done; it is also looking forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211728	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211732	Thank you, Minister. I have listened a great deal to what the Minister has said, and there are some things I simply wonder about. It is as if the Minister is a little afraid of recognising something that is really good, because when you do it, you also say that everything else is not as good as what you say is the best. You must never be afraid of that, not at all as Minister of Culture. Culture itself awards prizes every year in all areas, as it were. It is, of course, a way of developing, it is a way of creating the future, as the Minister himself says. We create the future by also measuring up to all the good we have created in the past. So I do not quite understand the argument there; perhaps the Minister can elaborate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211830	I would very much like, because this gives me the opportunity to correct one, I have noted, widely held view of what it means to be Minister of Culture, namely that one should be such a general cultural critic. I am not, and I will never take it as the basis for my work, especially not as Minister for Culture, because culture must be diverse. I will never be very good at either throwing or grabbing a ball, but if that is what brings people into society, I have respect for it, then I would like to support it, then I would like to promote it. It's not all music I understand, but if that's what makes somebody think they can be more than the audience in their own life, then I'd like to support it, then I'd like to promote it. I'm not gonna stand here and tell you what's best or what's bad. There are plenty of critics in various cultural programmes who can do that. I am standing here because I believe that culture is very important for our society to be more than productivity and efficiency; it is also a view of people, and it is diverse like democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211937	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316211938	I have no expectation that the Minister will be the judge, but I have the expectation that it will be the Minister who will facilitate them to do so; I have an expectation of that. It must be the responsibility of a minister to do so at times, not all the time, because of course the Minister must also facilitate the broad, that is, everything that lives out in the people's soul. But there is also the best thing that is both broad and the best, and you shouldn't just look at one thing. Therefore, we must not be afraid of recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212022	I can't even understand how you can read it into what I'm saying. I recognise all those who are the very best at doing something like artists or creating a cultural event that excites that challenges that gather that brings us forward. I would like to acknowledge that, i.e. those who are the best at it, but how they do it, what form it takes, I would like to leave it to others. Then, of course, I could facilitate, as the questioner has said, but it is also a question of what to use your strength for. I would like to give the Danes the impression that culture here is what it has always been, a place where they can become more than the audience in their own lives. I'd rather use my powers than make a cannon.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212104	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212107	Thank you. It is not a question, but a brief comment. I guess that's allowed, too. I would just like to say that we heard from the old liberal party and the rapporteur that culture distributes prizes every year and finds the best. But I have never heard culture award the best psalm in the 1880s or the best popular song in the 1930s. It was fixed then, and it turned out whether we liked them or not, that we kept singing them, or they were no longer sung and forgotten. It is, of course, such a democratic selection process, which is probably better than some wise people having to say that it is absolutely these that we have to hide. I guess that's up to the people. I think it's a strange attitude, and it looks like taste judgment to have a cannon like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212201	At any rate, it is thought-provoking that the cannon just started as a conservative project with a conservative minister of culture and thus has precisely this preserving approach in it. That is why I think it is quite fair that the Danish People's Party, which also has a conservative vein in it, brings it up. But the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, who is also usually responsible for the development and popularity, and for allowing things to find their own ways, would now like to go into such a more, what can be said about the exclusive way of going to culture. I hope we can find each other in a debate afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212241	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Christian Juhl had just one comment. All right, there will be no further brief comments to the Minister. This is the time for the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212306	Thank you for the floor. I think I'm better at throwing and grabbing a ball than I am at singing, but nevertheless I love singing. And I love singing especially when it's with others. It could be around a fire, it could be in a big hall, it could be at a party. It always does something special when there's a song. Whether it's from the Højskole songbook, whether it's from the Danish Psalm Book, or whether it's from the Red Workers' Songbook, which I must admit is the one I sing most from. In Denmark we have a song treasure without equal. We have songs that create space for reflection and remind us that we are part of a story, a community that gives us something to be together about. In school, in the community, in the church, in the union, in the family, we open the songbook, and we gather to sing. Common song has become modern here under corona. It creates cohesion. It binds us together across generations and even across parts of the country. If we zoom into the Højskole songbook, which is of course under special magnification here, then in its basic form it is a broad representation of different times' way of using both language and music. Over time, new songs have come in, others have gone out. This has always been the case, and I really think it is important for tradition that the Højskole songbook is also constantly renewed, so that new generations can also recognize themselves in the songs and thus also turn on and find the old songs. In this way many generations can share in keeping alive both new and old and share the joy of the Danish song treasure. I think that is the way I could go on, and I think that the rest of my speaking time with a tribute to our tradition of singing in Denmark, but frankly, I just have to admit that I really think it is rather awkward that we should have this debate in the Folketing about what kind of songs we are going to sing; about who should choose them. I actually have the basic attitude that let the singing treasure and all the history and culture it contains develop in harmony with those who sing from it, and let us not turn it into a political question, which songs are included in a songbook or not. And especially, because in the case of the Højskole songbook there is no question that the Folkehøjskole Association, which publishes it, has replaced the whole repertoire of songs from one day to the next. There are, as I understand it, 601 songs in the new songbook. 151 of them are new. This means that 450 are revenants from the previous version. So that's the vast majority. In this way, there is still a strong foundation of tradition in the book. The debate is sometimes about very few songs that either come in or go out, and I just think that from that perspective it seems rather ironic that the Danish People's Party as the proposer here calls the Folkehøjskolesforenings work with the Højskole songbook an identity policy project, when at the same time the proposal would like to define when a song has popular legitimacy and thus also give some special songs priority. Actually, I think that sounds a little hollow. If you want to influence the song selection published by an independent organization in their songbook, then I would actually recommend that you engage in the association that publishes the songbook, and that interferes with the debate, whether it is the Højskole songbook, or it is about to join one of the workers' organizations and that way through to influence the discussion about the Workers' Songbook. But that must be the way to do it and not involve the Folketing in it. That's where I think we should uphold the arm's length principle. That is why the Social Democrats cannot vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212706	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212711	At least the latter was a complete mess. That it should have something to do with the arm's length principle to implement a cannon in the Danish song tax, I think we should just pass over in silence. It's not gonna be on sir. Kasper Sand Kjærs CV as one of the most flashy illustrations. What we are talking about here is, of course, to conduct the same debate, discussion as has been done in so many other contexts, and if Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær's primary opposition to that proposal is that we have the folk school song book and the work song book and, I believe, also the hymn book, as Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær then does not frequent so frequently, I understand, is that really enough? Of course, it may be that it is because of Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær's rare reference in the psalm book, that it has not struck him, that what has been taken out of the high school song book by a very violent maneuver is a large proportion of the 150 songs removed in the 19th edition, and that the folk song book therefore gives the impression that Christianity does not play as important a role in Danish cultural life as it did in the 18th edition. Will Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær then maintain his view that the three books he mentioned are all sufficient to constitute the Danish song tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212831	Now it was the three songbooks that I just remembered when I wrote my speech for today. There's a lot of people out there. After all, there are a lot of associations and organizations in this country that have their own songbook, and they are in one way or another together our song treasure. Now maybe it's just the three songbooks I've just liked myself, and frankly, the hymn book like the one I've been singing the least from. But yes, I do think that the three song books are a good idea of what, as a whole, contains the Danish song treasure. But can't I just arrest the fact that this shouldn't be about the arm's length principle, because I think it does. The fact that we are moving to sit and do taste judgment about which songs are better than others, in here and in some way makes it a matter for us as politicians to relate to whom we will appoint to a committee, and thus also to what attitudes they should put down over the work of selecting songs, I think is a breach of the arm's length principle. I also think, precisely in this time, that this is totally unnecessary because our singing tax then lives, perhaps better than it has done. We haven't talked about singing and all that it can, and the various songbooks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212948	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316212949	But it is precisely in this situation that we must have the discussion, the public debate. This is the first time that I have heard that democracy in the literature and Danmark cannons is supposed to be a breach of the arm's length principle. I usually thought it was about public administration. But please let it go if we look at it differently too. What is the matter here is that one has to gradually navigate very, very widely and even be very, very sought-up and actually also be very qualified to find songs that until 10 or 20 years ago were completely natural parts of the Danish song tax, and it is in that light that it will be interesting to have that conversation. When, for example, the Danish cannon came into play, there were almost 2,500 proposals for values that came in and that were then discussed and had a broad public debate about. Why not do the same right now when the song stands so strong?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316213043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316213045	I mean, the idea of cannon hasn't grown in my backyard or in the backyard of social democracy. It grows further over. It is because, frankly, we also think it is a taste judgment. And when, moreover, you have mixed the primary school into it and thus completely broken with the freedom of method that applies in the primary school, I think that it will be something worse, frankly, that you have been created with those guns. I don't think we should repeat that mistake with the songs. But at least I think, sir. Morten Messerschmidt sounds to have a lot of good ideas on how to engage Danes in a conversation about our song tax, and I think that he should give them to the Folkehøjskolensforening • ideas on how they could engage several Danes in the conversation about what songs should be in our common song tax next time. I'm sure that could be really exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316213133	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Yes, there is. I'm sorry. It had come after I got up, but okay then. Mrs Birgitte Bergman, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316213146	Excuse me, Chairman. I got a little curious about the last thing the rapporteur mentions. This whole thing about the cannon not growing in the backyard of the Social Democratic Party: No, I'm super happy it's grown in our backyard. It is, after all, an expression that something is of greater value than anything else. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether, when we talk about the literature canon, the rapporteur does not recognise that words have been given about the authors that are important for our children to meet through their 9 or 10 years of schooling, and to ensure that all pupils meet precisely the authorships • Karen Blixen, Søren Kierkegaard etc. I'd like to hear something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316213241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316213242	You can hear how it is conservative cultural policy. I understand it is. It will just never be social democratic cultural policy, and it will never be social democratic education policy in particular, that we sit in here on some committee appointed by the politicians in Copenhagen and decide what children throughout Denmark should read during their primary school hours. This is why we train the world's best schoolteachers so that they can select the content for the students, so that it fits where they are in their educational journey. I think there will be some books that are more relevant to children in parts of the country to read than other books in other parts of the country because it fits in where they are in their very lives. What will be relevant in their time and what will make sense in the formation of them to whole people, I leave very, very confidently to our primary school teachers to curate for the pupils. This is the tradition we have in Denmark for how we run school and education policy, namely that we do not sit in here and have all sorts of discussions about what should be the curriculum and not be the curriculum. This was the door opened with the guns that the former bourgeois governments have put in place, and I think it is simply to challenge a school tradition that we otherwise have a great deal of reason to be very proud of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316213357	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316213400	Then I think that the rapporteur and the Social Democrats contradict themselves a little, because we are very concerned that we should have something to share, for example. that we at Danmarks Radio must have great stories, that is to say the story about Denmark, and how important it is that we have something we all see, something we're rounded up with, something we can share. After all, we see series separately, for example. on Netflix, and there is not so much that we share, and such a literature reference work is something we can share. We are talking about 10 years of schooling, so there is still freedom for the individual teacher, but there is just something we need to share, precisely so that we can still have a community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316213449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316213449-2	Well, I'm really worried about the common public who's about to crack, because every tech giant has his own echo chamber for each of us, and the many streaming services make us never see the same thing anymore. That's exactly why this government has chosen to strengthen Denmark's Radio in relation to the savings that the previous government would make on Danmarks Radio. We need to strengthen the common public, so we have something to have a joint discussion about. But I could never dream of interfering in what the DR is going to send Sunday night at. I can never be the right person to do that, but I would like to insist that we have the joint conversation about what the most talented developers of Danish television have created to broadcast on DR kl. 8:00 a.m. Sunday night.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316213532	Thank you, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Kim Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316213555	I think it is a good resolution that brings out many thoughts and I am sure we will get a good debate on it. I have to start by correcting the Minister, because the Minister has just got the story wrong in relation to the cannon side. It was not Brian Mikkelsen who started it, and I must defend Bertel Haarder here and say that it was in 1994, he came with the report "The canon of Danish literature." No, I'm pretty sure so, but we can fight about that later. In any case, he issued a history cannon and a democracy cannon, and the concept of cannon became really all-powerful in Denmark, as the same Bertel Haarder in 2016 together with the entire Danish population developed the Danish cannon. Now we know that the Left will also be in favour of a singing cannon, of course we will. Because there is nothing wrong with recognising that there is absolutely nothing in the way of recognising someone who has done well and we should not be afraid of that. At every option there are also sometimes some opt-outs, and that is part of life. That's the way it has to be. I also hear that we are talking about gathering together on culture, and that is quite right, and the song is one of the very important things the Socialist rapporteur mentioned. It is absolutely true that often, when we are together, we sing. So do we in the Left. We almost always do that when we're together in larger assemblies, and it's just so amazing. That is why, of course, we must also use this opportunity to do something about the song in Denmark. After all, a cannon is a description that serves as a guide or a model. This is where we identify the works that contribute to an understanding of Danish culture and history across generations. I agree 100% with many of the words that have been said. That's what we do. As the proposers themselves write, Denmark has a long and proud song tradition; our songs bind us together as people. The songs are sung in our homes as well as in schools, churches, high schools and many other places across the country. But it is not a matter of course that our folk songs are passed on to future generations. We want to make sure of that. Therefore, we also believe that the Danish singing tax, like many other areas of Danish culture, deserves its own canon. I would like to conclude, however, by pointing out that while the Left is very positive about a singing cannon, it is important for us that this principle of arm's length applies in relation to the Folkehøjskolesforening and their editorial work on the Højskole songbook. It is not an identity-political project. We must and will not interfere in what the League of Folkehøjskoles decides. That is why the Left will ask in committee for a report to be written so that we can formulate for ourselves how we believe that the creation of an independent committee of cannons to prepare a cannon over the Danish song tax should be described. However, as I said, the Left fully supports the proposal to set up a committee to draw up a canon for the Danish song tax. And I look very much forward to working on the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214037	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are a number of brief comments. First, to sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214044	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have to admit that I cannot understand how liberal cultural policy can be that we must preserve parts of culture in order for some to find it interesting. Now I also know the rapporteur as a man rounded up by the public education organizations. If we want to preserve the songs and cultural heritage for future generations, then the battle must be to get more people to participate in all the communities where we sing together and get to know the songs and then not to write them down in a cannon. Surely I have not learned the songs of high school or the songs of the Psalm book or the Worker's book by reading them on paper. I taught them by singing them with others. Does the rapporteur not agree that this would be the best way to ensure that cultural heritage is carried on, that we get more people to participate in the companies where we sing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214133	I certainly do not see that there is anything wrong with both. I think that is an excellent example of what we are doing, and we must continue to do so. I agree that we learn a lot of songs by singing them together, for example. When you sing with your kids when they're little. They remember that. We have to keep doing that. There's nothing wrong with that. But there is nothing wrong with recognising that we are making a cannon where we want to do it, and there is the Danish song tax so important that we can easily do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214206	Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214207	But there won't be a single future child who gets to know the Danish song treasure by digging down a coffin today with the songs we think they should know in the future. It can never be the way to carry on that legacy. We're gonna have to pass it on by singing them together. Does the rapporteur not agree that there will not be a single child who gets to know the good songs from our song treasure by making a cannon with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214236	I just think that the rapporteur says the same thing one more time, and I can, in fact, just say the same thing one more time: I am not talking about digging a coffin down; I am talking about creating a lively debate about our singing tax. And, of course, we're gonna keep singing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214253	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214254	Thank you. I once had a colleague named Asger, and he was Left, not left-wing, but old-fashioned. When we had time, we always discussed which songbook was the most important one. We concentrated on two: He took the Højskole songbook, and I had the Working Songbook. Then we argued on life loose. However, we agreed that the Højskole songbook was created out of the struggle between the lower class in the country and the landowners, and that a political battle came out which was created and where the songs were important. And in the next stage, when industrialization came, the work songs were created out of the liberation struggle that the workers were trying to get against the company owners. That's how far we agreed. Then we looked at the shelf, just as the Minister of Culture did, and there was indeed a songbook from the Sports Association, which was a songbook from the Scouts Association, there was also a Psalm Book. All of a sudden we found out that there were many different songbooks, and we also found that they belong in different cultural circles. There is not one folk soul; there are a lot of different folk souls, and you use different songs in different contexts. It is therefore pointless now to start to standardize all the many cultures that exist. Now the President stands up. I'll take the next episode in a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214421	Thank you. I'm going to answer the last one, because nobody's talking about alignment. It's an acknowledgment. That's the way it is. There is nothing more to it than the fact that it is important that we do it once in a while. As with all the other guns, it is important that we take a stand every once in a while. We are also in favour of this. However, it is also important, of course, that we do the other things, and I agree 100% with the way in which the rapporteur presents the various songbooks. They are created in their own world, and they are taken out, and they live because they are singing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214459	Sir. Christian Juhl for the next episode.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214503	Therefore, it is also important that we say that it is not the songs, but that it is the song tradition, that we sing together, which it is important to preserve. One example is that there are many young people who cannot find a psalm when they have to stand for the funeral or funeral of their parents or grandparents. Then they choose Kim Larsen, and it's being played more now than any psalm in the Psalm book... the one who stays quiet... because it goes directly into the young generation's... what to say, how to perceive the mood that is when you say goodbye to a close relative. That's how things develop. Then some wise people can come and say: No, no, you must remember that here is the true value. And that is what is wrong when you say that there is something better here in popular culture. You can't afford that. And the kids don't care about that. They will then choose this song anyway and say: You can choose all the guns you want; just do that, it's none of our business. That is what is great about the development of folk culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214607	It sounds completely as if the rapporteur will not sing Kim Larsen if it becomes a cannon song. Well, it's not like that. In fact, I very much agree with what the rapporteur says, and that is why I and the Left may not be given opinions that we do not have. Because we don't. This is a recognition; it is not a question of saying that everything else is worth nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214639	The next brief remark is to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214641	I was pleased with the last part of the rapporteur's speech, in which, fortunately, the rapporteur on the Left stressed that the support for this proposal was not a rejection of the 19th edition of the Højskole songbook, because it had really puzzled me. One thing is what preserves and so on. I like both the preserving and something that looks forward. Somehow it has to be able to do it all. We need to be able to look back and forward. But what is shattering in my ears, which I cannot really reconcile with the Left as a liberal party, is that it is the state that has to sit and make a cannon. Honestly, we have a voluntary, popular community, the high school movement, which is able to do a process with the 10-15 years apart, which is wide and very engaging. I don't know how many songs have been sent in. There are a lot of people who have been involved in the debate on what should then be included in the new version. I simply cannot understand how it should be more popular for there to be a state body sitting and designating some songs than that it is a voluntary community that we see with the League of Folkehøjskoles.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214800	Thank you for questions, but I just have to say that I think I read out that it was supposed to be an independent cannon committee. It may well be that I forgot to say 'u' first and that I have come to say 'dependent cannon committee'. I do not think I was able to say it, but then I will repeat it: it is an independent committee of cannons that has to make it, and it is not the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214829	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214831	But I understand that the proposer, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who has made that proposal, has a pretty precise idea of what should be included in this cannon. I guess it won't be that independent if it's gonna follow sir. Morten Messerschmidt's proposal: it must be preserving. I don't want anything new. There should certainly not be anything that represents a religion other than the Danish religion, etc. etc. Can one in the Danish Liberal Party see oneself in a singing cannon that is made with such an upbringing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214903	I simply think that the rapporteur has been out to go when I spoke before, because everything I say has obviously not gone in. What I said was that the Left would very much like to help create a cannon for the song tax, and that was the consensus. And then we say that we want to make a report and we say that we want to make an independent committee. So I do not really think we have any super differences of opinion, but I should like to give my speech so that the rapporteur can read it again afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214938	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316214941	I'm not sure it'll do any good, sir. Kim Valentin, sharing the speech. I believe that the self-love of your own voice is so great that nonsense will be uttered with the pathos we still hear from that edge. No, what I think is so interesting is that what we hear from the Enhedslisten is actually • and I say this • wisely, but which supports the proposal. In other words, it is absolutely true that many young people are hesitant in the situation in which they have to choose psalms for example. their parents' funeral, but why? Well, that's probably because many people feel that the Psalm book is something that belongs in the church. And gradually over the past few years the psalms have gone out of the Højskole songbook, and Grundtvig has got a proper fur with the latest version. What we have to ask and what I would have given in response if I had been subjected to the oratorial blowing of pear, as Mr. Kim Valentin has just been exposed to, is where all the good things that edition for edition goes out of the Højskole songbook, go if we don't get a cannon that picks them up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215049	That is actually a very good question, I think, and it is one of the questions to be asked in this independent committee that can work on things, because then we can have a thorough analysis of what we want to preserve and what we do not want to preserve. For the Danish song tax is super important, and we agree with that in the Left. It's not like you have some songs and you say that now you can never rejoin new songs. Of course it's allowed. Well, it's such a dynamic process, where new songs are constantly coming in. Sometimes there comes an old song, which you sing again, and then of course it has to come back up again. We are very, very open to this dialogue. That is also why we are asking for a report to be made on it so that we can find out what it is in and for itself we have to do, but a song tax we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215150	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215152	Exactly, and this isn't about, like, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær said to dig down a coffin, but indeed about exactly the opposite, namely to dig up a coffin. So, for example, when Grundtvig's very well-known poem • The snows met in asphyxiation on the sea, which we know from Odden Church, the poem over Willemoes, has slipped out of the latest edition of the Højskole songbook, it would perhaps be very reasonable to have a thought about, if not the whole history of the England wars etc. could be somewhere else, so that it doesn't just get buried to use sir. Kasper Sand Kjær's picture, but still away is in a treasure chest you can find.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215231	I am listening to the comments, but I would nevertheless like to say that it is important for the Left to use the arm's length principle when working here, that is to say that we must politically keep our hands off this sort of thing. And that, of course, is something that must be taken care of when you set up this committee, so that there is no political interference in what happens when you select.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215259	The next brief remark is to Mr. Uffe Elbæk, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215303	I have a comment and a few questions. My comment is that I simply cannot believe that the Left has been sucked into this proposal. I don't get it. It is a totalitarian proposal and it is an identity policy proposal and I would like to have the opportunity to argue in favour of it. If you read the description, i.e. in the comments, the reason why we are discussing it here is that the Danish People's Party has become angry that there is a song called "Ramadan" in Copenhagen, which has entered the Højskole songbook, and then you propose a cannon committee, an independent cannon committee, which will then have to find some other songs until the Danish People's Party does not agree with that committee either. Well, the Højskolesangbogens committee has chosen to say that this is what they want. It is independent, and it is some wise people who have found out that this is what they want to prioritise. Then there is a politician in a party who says that you disagree with that and you want an independent cannon committee. What's the difference? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215408-2	So, I can hear that it is not understood, but I cannot answer for the proposal that the Danish People's Party has made. I can say what the Left would like to say, and the Left would like to support us making a cannon for the Danish song tax. It's the initial idea, and we think that's a good idea. And then we think that it should be independent and we think that a report should be made. It is not just a few parties, hopefully the majority will decide what we want to do here, and I hope that there will be a participation by Uffe Elbæk, and I will listen actively to that, as well as Zenia Stampe and everyone else, and also the rapporteur for the proposers, Morten Messerschmidt, so that we can make a good decision on how this is to happen. Everyone has to be involved in this work, but it is certainly not going to be a proposal that will be just as Morten Messerschmidt or I think; everyone should be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215507	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215508	But would the rapporteur recognise that the reason why we are standing here and discussing this now is that the Danish People's Party has simply looked at a very specific song in the Højskole songbook and therefore in principle wants another Højskole songbook? Well, that is the comment, and that is what we are discussing. In my world, a good idea is an idea that responds to a real need. Is there a need for a singing cannon? Don't we have enough songbooks, and don't we also have a selection that selects the songs? So I simply do not understand why the Left jumps with both legs into the identity policy of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215557	I think I just distanced myself from the identity policy... I hope that was heard then... so that's certainly not the point. But you can agree with some of it and disagree with something else. I hope so, sir. Uffe Elbæk can acknowledge. And then I actually heard so many questions that I can't possibly answer them in 8 seconds, I would say. But I look forward to discussing it afterwards with Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215626	The next brief remark is to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215631	Thank you. Seven years ago, when I started in politics, I came to my own surprise to work much more with the Left than I had ever anticipated I could get to. And one of the lessons I have learned is that where the SF and the Left can meet are in some of the liberal and decentralized positions that we often have. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether this is not really a break with a quite healthy liberal mindset that a song tax is not something that is chosen from the centre. It's something you can find out for yourself as an individual person in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215717	I would like to acknowledge that we have had good cooperation, and I think that is very good. I am always pleased when the rapporteurs ask questions when we are in negotiations. I always think that's super exciting. But when we go beyond that, I would say that what we are saying here is not that you only have a cannon. We have that is what all the other guns have done: you have focused on it, and you have really got the culture out where it has been good for people. Well, we see, for example. In these times, the corona has really made people think: Wow, it's good that we have culture. And it's one of the things in the song treasure, so let's be happy or agree that a cannon can do something good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215825	The questioner for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215827	Well, that's very interesting. Because there's only one song treasure? Is the Song Treasure Delimited? Who's delimiting it? And would that mean that the songs that I or other individuals in this society care about and have close relationships with, regardless of whether they're new or old songs, or whatever it may be, aren't part of a song treasure? That is the problem with this proposal: it is said centralistly that there is something more important than anything else. And it's song treasured one Can't the rapporteur see that there's a huge paradox in this, in relation to it being decided centrally from, and that you just don't leave it up to the individual to say: for me, the Danish song treasure is filled with these songs?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215916	I don't see a contradiction. I think you can do both. In fact, I think that recognition of it will highlight the fact that we have a lot of songs. We're gonna talk about what's good and bad, and you're gonna take it up in school classes where you can make your point. You put the light on the song, and you put the light on all the songs that may have gone into oblivion. Well, it can't be a bad thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316215944	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left, so the next rapporteur we are going to have on the platform is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316220018	Thank you for that, President. The Danish song and the Danish song treasure are undoubtedly an essential subject and an essential element in the Danish cultural heritage. We have a long and proud tradition of singing for both solemn and personal events, and I have personally sung in choirs since I was a little girl, and I have sung in all kinds of contexts, as so many others have also said about up here from the platform. The joint song is a great way to create a sense of cohesion and community, and we have experienced this in particular during the coronal closure. And fortunately, we already have a good institution that collects, protects and at the same time develops the Danish song treasure, at least if you see it in the form of the Folkehøjskolen's Songbook. In SF we believe that the Folkehøjskolen's Songbook and the entire structure behind it in the form of the Folkehøjskolens Forening in Denmark perform this task excellently, and we do not see a need to create another cannon. The first Højskole songbook was published in 1894 and has since served as a common reference and has been a constantly evolving collection of the Danish song treasure. We see no reason to set up another group to carry out a similar task. It cannot be right for us politically to interfere in what is and is not a singing tax by setting up a new group because we are dissatisfied with the latest edition of the Højskole songbook. This cannot be our job as politicians, and it will be a devastating politicisation of the Højskole songbook and what we could call the Danish song treasure. The folk song book and the Danish song treasure must not be captured in political ideologies and must not be dependent on a red or a blue majority. When it comes to this kind of cannon, we in the SF think it's problematic when you centralize what's central. Because when you do, there's a lot of things you rule out. What we in the SF think is interesting when we talk about these guns is, in fact, the debate we can have about what a song tax is. What did it mean to me when I sang a night song when I was a child, or what touched my heart when I sang with my family? It is individual, and it should remain so, and therefore the SF is also voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316220256	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316220301	I would just like to ask: with regard to the songs that have gone out of the Højskole songbook through 18 audits, how does Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk think that you should be able to remember them individually and hold on to them? Where is she gonna find them if she wants to sing them for her daughter?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316220323	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316220326	Yes, but now there are many other ways to find texts and, incidentally, also notes than through the Danish Højskole songbook. By the way, we are also living in a reality where books are becoming fewer and the web is becoming more and more relevant. So there will always be an opportunity, and I can only encourage the questioner to sing and communicate songs loud and wide. And that has been done for many, many years. After all, it is not the book itself that makes sure that songs are sung there are lots of songs in the Højskole songbook that are not sung very much. So that is not what needs to be defined. But it should not help define what is important either, because it must never be a politically centralist decision to decide what is right and what is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316220413	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316220415	I hear that SF thinks it is no problem that the many songs from which the Højskole committee then opt out, just as they go into oblivion, and then you have to find them yourself on the web or in other books etc. So I would just like to hear: what is particularly democratic about it? Well, the High School Committee is made up of eight people. Is it democratic that it is they who decide which songs should be forgotten?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316220443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316220446	But it won't be. I think the questioner is going to attach equal value to the Højskole songbook. It has and some families use it more than others. But it still cannot, no matter how much you turn and turn it, be a political question, what we must stick to what must be forgotten and what must not be forgotten. The high school songbook has been developing all day. Gasolin and Kim Larsen would never have entered the Højskole songbook if it hadn't been in development.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316220520	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316220542	It is almost amusing to consider this proposal, so soon after we have dealt with the proposal for the Academy of Fine Arts, because there we could understand that it was very important for the Danish People's Party and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to ensure diversity and that individual currents were not allowed to exorcise others. But we can then understand that when a free and inclusive popular community like the Folkehøjskolesforening presents a broad song selection that must accommodate a little for everyone, then Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is ready to drive out the steamroller and replace the broad popular with a one-way and state-centured culture. Because that is what it is all about: censorship, definition, we could also just call it identity policy. That's why it's so ironic to hear Mr. Morten Messersschmidt accuses the Folkehøjskolesforening and the Songbook Committee of pursuing an identity policy project, for that is it, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is working on it here, and indeed without hiding it. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt has been very clear that he was very unhappy that there was a single song out of 601 songs about Ramadan, i.e. Ramadan in Copenhagen, one in 601 songs. I can't believe that that would be enough for us to make a state alternative to the free, popular community. I also understand that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is sorry that Shubiduas Denmark has gone out and that Mormor's Kolonihavehus has gone out. I have a very nostalgic relationship with them myself, but on the other hand I am so glad that some new songs have been included. There has been a rainy day in November, the children's street, the Langebro, Beautiful and lovely, Dancevevise and • Why is Happiness so Luneful? These are songs that have not just been invented, they are songs that, for me at least, are the soundtrack for my childhood and my youth. And then there are also really brand new songs, songs from our own time, not just songs we have good memories of, but songs written by living writers. I have never fully understood the disapproval of the Danish People's Party against the time in which we live. What is so unpleasant about us perhaps leaving behind ourselves a cultural heritage that our descendants will take care of and treasure, just as we value the cultural heritage that we have been handed down by our ancestors. That is what we hope for when we make room, not just for those songs that have shown their popular worth over the past 20 years and have become part of our song treasure, also without being part of the Højskole songbook, but for brand new songs in the Højskole songbook, and then it is to give them the opportunity to become part of the song treasure. There are then given some who fall out again because they did not yet achieve the popular breakthrough, even though they became part of the Højskole songbook, and then time will make sure that they disappear again, which will then allow for a new generation to have their time also represented in the Højskole songbook. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt the very trivial question: what will the rapporteur do about songs that go out of the Højskole songbook? How many pages does Mr. Morten Messerschmidt sig Højskolesangbogen must have in the future? If you can't take out songs, but you can take in songs, it's just before you have to bring a sports bag every time you have to sing from the Højskole songbook, because it's gonna be pretty big unless it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt's intention is that new songs should not be introduced because it should be exclusively preserving, i.e. a culture of another time. Cultural heritage? Yes, it's ours too, but it's not something that represents our own time. I think that is rather unpopular, and it is certainly not something I associate with a living, popular, national community. The vibrant national community looks back, takes care of our cultural heritage, but we certainly also make sure that we ourselves create some cultural heritage from our time to future generations. That is why we cannot, of course, support this bizarre proposal, which is also totally unnecessary, because it is not the case that the Danish song tax is at risk of being forgotten, because there is almost nothing stronger in Danish culture and the living Danish culture than our singing tax. The circulation figures for the Højskole songbook show that it is popular and sold and is sung, so I don't think the Højskole songbook or the song tax needs Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's help, but perhaps that is not what it is about, because it is rather censorship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221038	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221042	I note, of course, that Mrs Zenia Stampe considers it censorship to set up a committee which, with the inspiration of a proposal from the people, discusses what a cannon in the Danish song tax might look like. It's censorship. Then I would ask Mrs Zenia Stampe to reflect on her own proposal to spend 200 million. kr., I believe, that a committee should point to books which should then be distributed to the Danish youth. How can it be censorship that, taking into account the arm's length principle and all that one can agree on, a committee should gather a cannon over the Danish song tax, while the other is not, I have to assume, unless Mrs Zenia Stampe, like other former radicals, has again begun to celebrate censorship. That's not what's implicit, is it? So how can it be in harmony with the fact that Mrs Zenia Stampe would like a committee to sit and distribute literature to Denmark's youth?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221144	Because it's not a cannon.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221146	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221148	So it is simply the word that constitutes the difference here. So, Mrs. Zenia Stampe would like a committee to find literature, which one must assume must be the best of the kind. I think Mrs Zenia Stampe qualifies this here in Berlingske by saying that it should be books that are remarkable. On the other hand, my proposal for a cannon, which is therefore trying to find the best based on what a popular discussion might come up with, is censorship, while Mrs Zenia Stampe's proposal, according to which it is just a committee that has to find the most remarkable books, is not censorship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221226	The difference is that nobody today distributes books, which can be a common frame of reference and a topic of discussion, which was the purpose of our proposal. There's no such thing. But there is already a rich song treasure, which is represented in the Højskole songbook, including the blue songbook, which we used most often when I was a kid and went to primary school. I remember that book with the rings on the page. Therefore, there is no need for a state alternative to the song tax and the representation we have in the song tax today, whereas we no longer have the big joint conversation about literature. It was the one we wanted, and we still want it to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221307	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221311	That is to the end that was said. The fact that there is no common literature list does not quite agree with the fact that we have a literary canon that was created many years ago and that was precisely what was supposed to create a common frame of reference for our children and, above all, provide a framework for common learning. Can the rapporteur not confirm that there is a literary canon and that there is precisely what I think Mr Beazley has just said. Morten Messerschmidt refers to?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221351	Well, there are 12 titles that were selected by this cannon committee for literature, which consisted of a five or six people, as I recall. And it is true that they helped to identify some works that represent the Danish literary heritage, but that was not the intention of our proposal. The intention was to focus on the literature of our own time, which helps to create a conversation about the society in which we live. That was the purpose of the idea, not to create a cannon, but to create an active, lively debate about the art and culture of our own time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221428	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221431	So what's the difference between it and a song treasure?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221435	It is that the cannon was a list, and one could then buy a book where the list was elaborated a little, but it was not the case that we sent the books to the Danish population or to the young people to whom Mrs Birgitte Bergman refers. That's the difference. The list drawn up by the cannon committee was an attempt and all respect for it to appoint works which, among other things, were: represented the diversity of our cultural heritage, where our proposal was about constantly distributing books, so that we could have a live and rich conversation about the art and culture of our own time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221515	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316221536	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you. Morten Messerschmidt. It is a good idea to take an interest in the Danish song treasures, I would say; there are many of them that are not just one. It would be a boring people to live among and a boring country to live in if we only had a song treasure. There is a variety of songs that I have sung over the years I have been allowed to live and fight for the Denmark I like best, from scouting time to the trip with the motorcycle club, as well as in the party, in the trade union movement and at the high schools, when I have been allowed to be there. There are many songs that touch me and that can bring out a tear or cause the heart to beat a little more intensely. First of all, there are all the good workman songs. When I see a red flag, my children could memorize it before they started going to school. Or the strike songs from the blockades in the rain and blown in front of companies that would not sign up or who had fired the employee's trust representative. Or the peace songs of the long marches and Easter demonstrations against war and armament. Or the women's songs that the proposers only mention male songwriters in their suggestions; isn't that a little too poor? Or the songs from the climate struggle. My former colleague and good comrade, Finn Sørensen, has written a protest song about the Lærkesletten at the Amager Fælled, and it has now been number one on the Danish Top 3 weeks in a row, and this has not happened to a protest song since Peter Belli wrote the song • Stay away from our neighborhood. Not to forget all the songs of international solidarity and friendship with sisters and brothers around the globe, or the song of the partisan who lost his life in the struggle for freedom in Spain, and the songs of those who, with their different culture, have come to our country, let alone forget the songs of love when we have been in love sometimes. But I also like the traditional high school songs and a single psalm when I have been with believers or at a funeral. Songs are often written in battle and crises: South Jutland, wars, fight against classes, by middle classes. However, I do not like the tumorous, self-tasteful nationalist songs that highlight the special and unique glory of the Danes above all others; others must hide far away, I do not like them. There I am more to Halfdan Rasmussen, who in the • Something about heroes • ironize a little over these kinds of songs with the lines: • There are enough Danish heroes who are Danish all day'n/ and walk around and buckle the belt while yelling; Fy for Fan. ▪ I don't know why, but I always think of the Danish People's Party when I just sing those lines of that song. The songs give unity and fighting spirit to the movements and groups that are part of the diversity that call themselves Danes. It is very good when people from different classes and ethnic groups sing together. Unfortunately, the authors of the proposal, and in particular their comments, have destroyed their authors of the motion for a resolution, who write that a cannon cannot be a mosaic of differences, and here we are at the heart: it cannot be a mosaic of differences. You will not respect the fact that the Danes are a population of many different kinds of people. Everyone sings with their own beak, and I do not think there is much that gathers as good as mutual respect for each other's background, culture and songs. "Ramadan in Copenhagen," which has been mentioned, is for some as good a song as Brorson's songs are for others. And why shouldn't there be new songs? Why should it only be the old ones? If we now say that our common song treasure should embrace the people's many facets instead of the same direction, it will be a great and beautiful and comprehensive songbook, it will be thick, lovely and diverse. I am proud to live in Denmark because of diversity and diversity and not least because of the principle of thinking, believing and singing freely and of our ability to come together to build the world's best societies despite differences. When I sing a good song with others, for a while I forget the sad things like... The corona, but I also forget those in our society who want to narrow and patent Danishness. So I sing a song a lot. Most Danes are not comfortable with taste judgment, and a cannon as described can all too easily become somewhat divisive and delimiting. I'd like to finish with a quote from one of my best songwriters and poets, Carl Scharnberg from Vrå. He says: "Culture is not theatre and songs/ and dances and games./ Culture is the total sum/of what we learn. He doesn't disapprove of theatre and songs and dances and games, but says culture is more. Thank you for an opportunity to reflect on which songs are good, they were enjoyable moments, but Enhedslisten cannot vote for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222048	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222050	That was a very fine list at the beginning of Mr. Christian Juhl's journey through a long life as an active left-wing politician in different corners of the Danish singing tax. The political aspect was also somewhat affected, namely, love. I was happy to hear that too. What I would like to see described in particular with perhaps some specific examples are the songs which I think Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned as nationalistic and tumorous just to do practically what we are talking about, as Mr. Christian Juhl doesn't like it. Then Mr. Christian Juhl perhaps mention a few examples?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222139	I would much rather mention some of the national songs that I like. Well, now I come from South Jutland, and the border issue has been important to me in my entire upbringing, because my family has lived north and south of Kongeåen. It has recently been rained, which is a very national, almost nationalist song, I like, and it has also been used in the fight against the European Union, for example. But if I should mention a song that I personally don't like it isn't me who should be a taster... it's what King Christian stood by the mound mast. It's really the kind of song that's tumorous. Yeah, let them sing the one who wants to do it just don't have to do it too often. I am happy to sing out of respect for others if I am in a company where it is proposed, but I think afterwards: who the hell wrote it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222228	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222230	Yes, Evald has... it's part of the Fishermen. Mr. Christian Juhl, of course. And once again, you sense that it is the political that dominates. Well, I guess that, like Mr. Simpson... Christian Juhl craves his faith, and if he doesn't hesitate to do so by the monarchy, Mr. Christian Juhl well. What I just wanted to ask you about now, sir. Christian Juhl then specifically mentions that gardens so recently calculated are, if he is not sad that it just slipped out of the Højskole songbook already at the previous revision, i.e. in 2007, from the 18th edition. And how does he feel about such a song not being part of the Højskole song book today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222307	Well, civil courage makes sure that song survives. Whether we have ten cannons about songs and whether or not we have a South Jutland cannon, it will survive because it is so rooted in many assemblies. There I feel that it is the people who carry the good songs; they are the ones who go on singing them. We can't tell them to remember that song or that song. There I would like to tell a little story that takes a little more than two minutes, namely about the struggle for the workman's songs in the red workman's songbook. For there were civilly disobedient shop stewards who wanted a song into the book that had not been included in the official editorial. Then they just sticked the song on the back and said, "We're singing the extra song today for the morning song." And then it came with me. That's what I call popular rebellion at its best.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222353	Yes, the rapporteur is quite right that it was difficult to reach within speaking time. But thank you for that. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur (Christian Juhl). The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222415	Thank you to the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party for focusing on the Danish song tax and for tabling the motion for a resolution. In Denmark and the Nordic countries we have a long and proud song tradition. We sing in schools, churches, high schools and many other places in the country, and at family parties. The Danish song treasure is a special treasure, yes, actually a treasure that we Conservatives really care about. The song treasure is part of the Danish cultural heritage. Not only in Denmark we sing a lot, but also in neighbouring countries, especially in Sweden, you have a strong song tradition with among others. Alsang; and as the daughter of a Swedish mother, I have been exposed to little of each. The Swedish and Danish shows have filled well in my childhood home, yes, so much, that in my capacity as city chief in Helsingør for a number of years I arranged to sing you happy in the square in Helsingør. The song knows something very special. We have seen it under corona with communal songs separately, morning songs have been introduced in many places, even I have listened to that parking attendants to avoid major conflicts with angry citizens during the day singing morning songs. That's great. We must dare to say that something is more important than anything else, and it is for us Conservatives, including with regard to our singing tax. As politicians, we must reserve the right to criticise and participate in the debate when the High School Committee chooses several modern and unknown songs which are hard to sing and which do not support the traditions and culture of the Danes and which do not have a long and popular history. But I still think the Højskole songbook can do something. It still contains a valuable breadth of songs about both Denmark's history and our time. Nor do I see this resolution as a response to the Højskole songbook, but more as an addition. A cannon can do something special. We saw it with the cultural canon, which the Conservatives then introduced as a response to an internationalised world, and where the aim was to focus on Danish works in the fields of architecture, design, visual arts, theatre, literature, films and music. Most recently, we Conservatives have also proposed a Christianity cannon, which all the schools of the country can use freely in teaching. Christianity enjoys a special place in the constitution and comes before or other religions in Denmark. Therefore, the Conservative People's Party also supports this good proposal for a singing cannon, which is based on the Danish cultural heritage. It is important for us that it is an independent and professional committee which must draw up a cannon over the Danish singing tax. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222704	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222709	Could we not agree that it is all the editors of immensely many songbooks that mark our folk culture or song treasure? I have such a series of different songbooks on the bookcase at home. Of course, I have hidden them from my childhood and youth, and I have even been given some of my grandparents etc. And I'm thinking that they've kind of told us what they thought was best, and then we can choose the songs. It gives the greatest freedom. Then we can say that Dansk Folkemindeamling must pick up those songs that no one sings anymore, but which are beautiful songs that have had a value for 50 years, for 100 years, or what do I know so that we can preserve them, so Mr. Morten Messerschmidt doesn't get nervous about them disappearing. I know that when I was younger, people traveled in West Jutland and picked up songs that were never written down, but had only been sung in generation after generation. It's folk culture that wants something. This thing about authorizing some songs, I think I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222815	I don't see it as authorizing. I see it as recognizing. I see it as something we think has a greater value than anything else. This is something we want to pass on to our children and our young people; it is something we can share.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222827	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222829	Well then, I have to ask: does a strike song from the strikes and protests in Herning, when I was young, have less value than Brorson's psalm or less value than one of the high school songs that is sung once a year, because we are just going through the Højskole songbook while we are at high school, etc.? What is more and less valuable? So, is it not the people who decide what is being sung and thus say what you think is of value? Why do we need some experts to sit and look at it? Isn't that a little mind control and a little taste judgment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222905	No, I don't really think so. There is a selection and selects songs for the Højskole songbook, and now we are also talking about an independent committee to select songs for a cannon. So I don't see any trouble in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222918	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222921	Thank you. I hear the rapporteur says that it is quite okay to recognise and say that something has more value than other things. Then I would ask the rapporteur to define how to find out what is more valuable than anything else. What songs are more valuable than others? Beror it on a technical skill? Does it make a special sound, a particular popularity in some particular population groups? What criteria can be set at all to ensure that there are some songs that are more important than others?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316222957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223000	In the world of sport, we recognize that some have a bigger star than others. We recognize that some people can do something. We recognise that being an elite athletes is something special, and we recognise that. We recognize that from in here too. When we talk about the Danish song tax and having to pick something, it's about what has a long popular tradition, what most people sing with, and an independent committee has to decide in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223028	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223030	All right, what I was listening to is that the rapporteur thinks that this is about what is being listened to most. Well, that's what we've got charts for. We can just go in and pick that up at Spotify or wherever you have your streaming service. There are charts, and it is very clear what is being listened to most, also over the years. I think it is incredibly important to focus on what song means to us not to define something better than anything else. It is quite clear that when we talk about sport, there are some people who come in faster than others, but you don't do that with music. Something of four chords is gaining ground, and other things of very high technical value are only for a few, but who can say what is most important and what is most important?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223114	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223116	I think that then there is something more important in our cultural heritage than anything else that is worth preserving than anything else. We recognize that. That's what we're standing on. That is what we also need to renew in order to preserve. That's also why we have the Højskole songbook. But that we make a song treasure on Danish classic songs that say something about our cultural heritage says something about being Danish and what we stand on, and what we are grounded on, and the DNA, that is to say being Dane, is what is important to us Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223149	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223152	Now Mrs Birgitte Bergman has repeatedly highlighted Brian Mikkelsen's cultural canon as an example of an example, I think, for this discussion. So I would just like to hear some concrete examples from Mrs Birgitte Bergman about how she has been using the cultural cannon actively for the last 10 years, because I understand that this is especially the case of delivering culture to new generations that are important, that is to say, keeping culture alive, so to speak. Can Mrs Birgitte Bergman mention some works that she has sought out, read, seen or heard because she has seen them in the cultural canon, for which Brian Mikkelsen took the initiative?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223237	Well, I don't have that personally, because I'm not a teacher; I'm not in touch with it in my daily work. But I have been working on it in relation to tourism development, and there are, after all, some things that are important when you are out communicating what people are going to our country for. That's one of them. our strong cultural heritage, our museums and our architecture. It can be Designmuseum Denmark in Copenhagen. It could be in the province, a theater, etc. So in this way there are many things that I have used in my daily work, but which I also use with my own children, my own family, and that is what I think is important. There is something, for example. The State Art Museum, which has a bigger star than others, and something more important to hold hands under than anything else. I fully acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223333	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223335	But I just think that Mrs Birgitte Bergman also admits that the cultural cannon has not become a practical tool. There is plenty of inspiration for teachers who want to teach music, literature, etc. etc. There are plenty of textbook material that helps them on their way in order to find some good works that represent Danish cultural heritage. But I just have to say that when I was elected to the Danish Parliament, one of the first things we had to decide over in the Ministry of Culture was what to do with the website on which the cultural cannon was located. The domain name was not paid anymore, and no one really went into the website. Then I think we actually took pity on the Conservative project and found an extra grant. But I also lack concrete examples from Mrs Birgitte Bergman today that the cultural cannon is actually a tool that is being used. That's not my impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223425	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223427	Listen to this: It has been many years since it was developed, and I am convinced that it has been used very much. It also has something to do with whether there is a focus on it, and I think that there should always be a focus on it. This is something we conservatives grow all the time. We talk about it all the time. There's something more important than anything else. There is something that needs to be used more often than anything else. There is something that needs to be visited more than anything else. And I am convinced that in the whole country, when it comes to school classes and so on, it uses a great deal. Whether you are aware of the cannon today is also about things that I apologize, I say it lives in its time, and if you do not cultivate it, and if this government does not cultivate it, it may fade out. But it has created a debate, and that is what was important at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223511	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316223528	Thank you. I have to say, I'm a little amazed. I would have thought that our dear Minister for Culture had bitten on this and said: "You know what, dear Danish People's Party, we now have the chance, but I demand that "Absolute Music 2" be included, and then we find a compromise. But then I came to think of "Absolute Music 2·, which is actually an excellent collection album with both REM, Peter Gabriel, Duran Duran and everything else productive, but there are no Danish songs on. There are Danish groups on, Sko/Torp, but the closest we'll get is ■Varje Gång Jag Ser Dig· with Lisa Nilsson and it's not quite Danish. So I guess we can't quite tighten it up that way. I feel like I'm going to do this with an open mind. I'm gonna do it with three hats on it. I am a musician, and I love songs, and I love to sing and play Danish and international songs, and it enriches my life to sing and play Danish songs, and I love to go out and play Danish songs for people around the Danish country when we can be allowed to do it again, which we hope we can soon. I enjoy that. In addition, I am a former teacher, which is why I also have a practical experience with these cannons that have previously been in the field of literature and history. There are mainly the two guns. And I remember the debate about these guns when they came out. There was almost a revolutionary uprising against them, and the waves went high. They still do, but it is a little more in certain theoretical circles, for in the practical reality it turned out that they did not have the all-rounding and all-breaking difference that was expected. As is often the case in primary school, when some have decided something theoretical, you take it down and make it fit into the reality that is out there. And in relation to the history cannon, it was actually emphasised that it was only 25 per cent. of the teaching time, which was going to use this history canon, and then you made an addition so that you no longer had to do it in chronological order, which also gave what was necessary for the teachers: freedom of method. It was the freedom of method to organise the teaching, which one thinks it fits best, and so it captures the cubs so that they get the most out of the teaching one does. The same was true with the literature canon, where I also experienced as a Danish teacher, that at first I felt it as a terrible attack on my professionalism. I thought it was a complete mistrust. But in time it also turned into a trusted tool, and often we actually had to sit and make the technical conversation on the subjects and on the subjects and on what worked and what methods we should use to use a common starting point to speak as teachers. And we actually started discussing literature to a greater extent than we might otherwise have done in the teachers' rooms. Yes, there is something authoritative about cannon, but just pouring it down the board like a huge, massive assault which is going to destroy the primary school and the community, I just don't buy it, because it's not my experience after all those years out in primary school. So let's find a compromise in it. And I have read the comments on the proposal, but I now feel that when I have to judge a proposal, I read the proposal. Then it is fair enough that you have different reasons for doing it. If it is to be quite trivial, the same can be said about a reduction in corporation tax. People may have different reasons why they think it should be there, but people have to. I am now looking at the fact that this is a tax relief, and that is what I am dealing with. And here is a suggestion that there might be a committee to look at whether we can do something for our singing tax, if we can do something to keep it out there, and I think that is a good thing, I have to say. Because it's under pressure and under change, and the fact that there's something common that binds us together... something we have the conversation about... I like. I like it if we have a debate about our song treasure and what we want with it. I think that the debate we have had today has been excellent. And I think a cannon should have that too, because you have to remember that even if you say a cannon is fixed, it isn't. Neither is our literary cannon. There have also recently been some changes here; I think it was in 2016 that the last change came. So it's not fixed. However, it provides a good starting point for a debate, and that is what I am reading into the proposal. And if that is what I can read into the Danish People's Party's proposal on this, I think it is positive. So I look forward to hearing something more about whether these are the sort of thoughts that have been shared, because then we can be positive about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224042	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224045	I think so, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen says that it is very sensible, and I am sure that we in the committee can find each other in the report which Mr. Kim Valentin has suggested. What I just want to say by taking the floor here is that I can reassure Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen says that I feel absolutely convinced that if the High School Committee continues the development that they are in now, then we should not go much further than a few individual audits until both Absolute Music 1, 2 and 3 will be included in the Højskole songbook.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224118	Thank you. And I can reassure the rapporteur that out in the Danish primary school we have both sung songs from Absolute Music and from the Højskole songbook, and we have also sung from the hymn book.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224127	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224133	I can't believe I actually made a speech in the Radical Youth member magazine in favour of the cultural cannon back in 2004, so I didn't think it was an attack back then. I remember looking forward to seeing those cannon lists, because I thought there might be something I could catch up with there. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen says it was a good tool, and I agree that a cannon does not need to be an assault, but I can be a little unsure whether it is such a great tool. That is why I would like to hear some concrete examples of how Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen has used the cultural cannon. And now Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has used it as a Danish teacher. - Sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen give some examples of some works that he used in his teaching inspired by the cultural canon?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224227	Then I would like to make it clear, because I said it was the literature cannon and the history cannon I didn't actually mention the cultural cannon. So, in my Danish education, of course, I've used the literature canon. So there, of course, I have had Hans Christian Andersen, Herman Bang and all the others that I had to go through, depending on the grade I have taught. When we take the story cannon, the problem was that at first, when it came out, there was like a notion that it had to be made in chronological order, and that means that the 1st-3th class had about the oldest time, the Ertebølle culture and everything else. Then you had the middle stage about the Viking Age, and then it was only in the secondary school that you worked with the last period. In this way it was very limited what it was you could take your students up for exam in, because then it was only in the last drug. When you gave up the chronological approach to it, it gave us a much greater freedom of method for us teachers in relation to the fact that we could also work with, for example, in our schooling. The Viking Age or the colonial period or some other things that would otherwise go beyond the period, which may have been from 1850 onwards, and which were otherwise worked on there. So in this way it gave greater method freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224332	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224334	These were some good examples, and they are also examples of how guns have been used, which in fact are also targeted at school education. But I was thinking mostly of the cultural cannon and this cannon, which isn't made so targeted for the educational system, but is made as such a popular thing. And that's where I'd just like to ask you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen has experience of learning how to use the cultural cannon actively as a tool in his teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224407	No, I didn't use the cultural cannon very much in my teaching, because building it was too broad, I thought. Well, there are 108 works, I guess, and then it's built up under those ten thematics, and I just didn't think that fit into the teaching. You might be able to use it if you were going on an excursion or an excursion or something else, but there you sit down as a teacher in the professional material. So I have to say that I have not used the cultural cannon in this way in my teaching. I have used the other things where we actually had a good professional debate about it. And so it is with us teachers that we see a little, and then we have to admit that we teachers will pick out a little in relation to everything that comes from there, and they will say it from there is probably a healthy approach at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224444	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224447	You can learn a lot. I had so much confidence in the teaching staff that I also think I still have away that they could manage without such straight lines and actually worked on how they now seem to be able to go a year and used their own long training for it. But that's interesting to hear. I would like to tell a little story about Hans coming to school, and when they had morning songs on 1 May, he asked the teacher: Could we sing a working song, since it is 1 May? Then the teacher replied and I recognize that it is 20 years since this: No, here at school we are not political. I believe that a cannon can easily become a political tool, even if one does so much corporate income tax and things and things. That's what I think is weird, so it's not the songs you want to sing. And it is the desire to sing that drives the work and drives which songs survive to put it bluntly. Many bourgeois people say: Let down what cannot stand. The songs that get too old must have a place in the museum.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224558	I have also sung working songs, and I remember that sometimes I was with my friends from Enhedslisten in Aarhus when they were having parties. They had such good parties because they had cheap cans of beer. Then we had parties, and then I came to play guitar while they were singing these songs, and it was really, really nice. The school is not just a place for children to do what they want to do. The school is also a place where there are some people, some professionals who have made some choices about what children should be dealing with, and of course teachers can easily make choices about it. But that's why it's good to have a common starting point to talk from. So a cannon was perhaps initially regarded as an attack, but in time it was more considered a useful and integrated tool that could unite us and be a starting point for the discussions we should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224646	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224648	Now I tried it with May 1st and working songs. It wasn't work songs we used to sing in my school hours. It has become a little more modern and a little more free with the newer teachers, and now I do not know whether the rapporteur belongs to them. There was also the time when Marie came to the teacher and the teacher wanted to know: What are your mother and father? Then she said, "I only have one mother, and my mother is just a cleaning assistant." That is where the change really begins, to quote one of the worker poets I like best. The language means a lot. The teacher's attitude is important. I recognise that teaching is also something to get things under control, but we should not have guidelines for what we want to sing and want to sing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224731	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224735	I think that after 18 years in the Danish primary school I can now comfort Enhedslisten with the fact that socialism still thrives well out in some of the Danish primary schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224746	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the new citizen. Well, then, sir. Mr Uffe Elbæk, outside the groups, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316224802	In order to stay in the context, I would say that I am a high school boy, and I have been singing in the Højskole songbook since I could walk, so I have it completely under my skin. I love singing; I love singing good songs. I love it as much as I can't stand this proposal. I think that is a terrible suggestion. I think that is because it is totalitarian, and it is identity-political, and it is bordering on the manipulative. It's deposed. Then I know that there are a number of rapporteurs who say that the idea itself is good. But this idea is born of a squeezing, a bullying, the marginalisation of certain groups in this society. I think there is an enormously interesting bridge between the discussion we had on the proposals we discussed earlier and this, where the Danish People's Party with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt at the head of the previous debate stood up for freedom of spirit, diversity, tolerance until we came to discuss what attitudes one should have in order to be allowed to sit on the board of the Academy of Fine Arts if one was a student and employee. This is the identity policy of full hammer for full hammer. Well, then, sir. Morten Messerschmidt laughs and smiles again up to the ceiling, but when you go down and read the comments, it says that the reason why you want a singing cannon is that there is a song called Ramadan in Copenhagen that you don't like. That's why you want a singing cannon. It's because there's a song you don't like. And the most amazing thing is that the whole logic falls apart because they say that you have an idea that an independent cannon committee should be set up. Will Mr. Morten Messerschmidt doesn't acknowledge that the editorial board that sits behind the Højskole songbook is independent? There is an independent committee that has chosen some songs. I'm afraid you don't like them. Then you want to set up an independent cannon committee. What will happen if that committee chooses some songs, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt doesn't like it? When I have heard the debate and also heard those who support it here, I feel that once again we have jumped directly on the identity policy corner of the Danish People's Party, which is about us going in and being value police, attitude police for what is right and what is wrong. So Free Greens do not support it at all. Then I can give you a bonus information, and that's that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and I actually have some songs that we like together and that we sing up at Bakken's Rest, and we have a party, and I love that room. I love that room as much as I don't like this proposal. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225203	Then there is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225206	And I love that sir. Uffe Elbæk loves the singing girls just as much as I love both the singing girls and my own suggestions. But what I would particularly like to reflect on, because there is a great deal that could be touched upon here, is this with the independence of the college songbook committee. For how does Mr. Uffe Elbæk from that? It is a committee which has nothing to do with the state, it is true. But it is a committee set up by an association which then publishes a completely private songbook. In the discussion we had about the Academy of Fine Arts, it is, after all, a completely state institute. I would never interfere with what private money might go to. It could, for example, be done. be sir. Uffe Elbæk's previous event in Aarhus with the Kaospilots. It was a private institute. Down here is the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. It's a public institute. The Association of Folkehøjskoles is a private association. There is no way to say that the Højskole sangbogens committee is independent. Well, that's thunderous depending on the union, so I just don't understand Mr. Uffe Elbæk's parallels.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225318	Well, then I'll try to walk along with Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt. The proposal states that an independent committee of cannons is to be set up. Now I do not know who is going to set up the independent committee. It's not clear. Is it a politically established independent committee? Or who's gonna set up this committee? But the whole idea arises from the fact that there is a committee behind the Højskole songbook which has chosen some songs, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt doesn't like it. What's the logic if this independent cannon committee chooses some songs, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt doesn't like either? It's completely illogical. What, on the other hand, is very, very clear is what drives this idea. What drives this idea is a very clear identity-political approach, where you want to define a particular group of citizens in this country by saying that this song called "Ramadan in Copenhagen," the Danish People's Party does not like.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225432	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225438	After all, I do not recall mentioning the wise person in question, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk is pulling out in my speeches tonight. On the contrary, I have mentioned a number of songs that are out of this edition of the Højskole songbook. It is true that it is in the comments made in the proposal, but I have not mentioned it here. I'm just saying, when the whole man... Uffe Elbæk's argument is hung up on the ramadan vise and it is so important to him, so I would just point out that I have not used it in my argument here tonight. On the other hand, I would like to ask the question which I also asked others: who is going to help remember everything that slips out of the Højskole songbook?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225513	If the song lives, it lives. That's the way it is. Then it may be that there are some generations from now on who suddenly rediscover a song that some generations have not sung. That's the way it is. Although the rapporteur, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, has not mentioned the song, Ramadan in Copenhagen, says it in the comments. That is the prerequisite. Now I do not have time to read from the text, but it says so, and it also says explicitly why you think it is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225553	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225558	As a teacher and music teacher, I found that the children would often like to sing Justin Bieber or Post Malone if they could choose what to sing songs in music lessons. I also think that as a teacher and that the Danish primary school, which is a state school and a school for education, has an obligation to give the children an insight into Danish music history and the various genres and important works in Danish music history. A cannon can be used to be the entrance to gaining insight into the most important elements of Danish music history. In this way, we ensure that the children get acquainted with it, and we also ensure that there are no teachers who, at a weak moment, because you can also have that when you are under pressure with 28 students and 29 lessons out there, resort to the easiest solution and let the children sit and watch YouTube videos with Justin Bieber, because you actually have some tools, a go-to tool that learns where you say: Hey, I can actually use that. - Sir... Uffe Elbæk see that one might actually be able to use such a cannon as an inspirational tool, as a catalog for such a thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225659	I fully acknowledge that. I myself am an educator, and I also agree with the rapporteur that children and young people must be challenged and also meet something that they have not expected and which they do not know and which they as teachers open up to them; they are given a knowledge and insight into something that they did not know existed. I totally agree with that. My appeal in this is about what kind of idea and ulterior motive has given birth to this proposal. I think it is deeply totalitarian and deeply identity-political, and that makes me unable to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225744	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225747	That's where I think Mr. Uffe Elbæk must be careful not to fall into the identity policy trap where you do not like a proposal because you attribute it to having a certain background. If you read what this is really about, it is that an independent committee should be set up to make a proposal for a cannon. I would never judge a proposal that came from the Enhedslisten, although I fundamentally disagree with them on many things, if I thought the proposal was good, but now Mr. Uffe Elbæk that it is because of the way the Danish People's Party has thought this proposal. However, if you look specifically at what the proposal contains, without identity-policy indications, then it is a relatively good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225820	I do not know if it is, because I am quite sure that there is really, very good teaching material, about which songs you can sing at any given time in connection with a school programme or a festive occasion. There are lots of lists, and there are lots of songbooks. If that were not the case, it may well be that I would think this was a good idea. I think that an idea should reflect a real need, and I do not think that there is a real need right now. On the other hand, I can see that there is a particular political agenda that is being tried to pursue, and I think that is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225858	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316225916	Thank you, President. This is then the second time today that a proposal from the Danish People's Party can gather blue block and can show that there is a real alternative between the left and the right in this Chamber. If nothing else, it is in itself a positive thing. But the most interesting part of the debate has in fact been that many of the attempts at polemical comments made by the left in particular reveal or emphasize the most important point of this proposal, and why it is necessary and a good idea to get a real canon for the Danish song tax. I think that Mr. Christian Juhl struck his head on the nail when he recounted the picture that I remember from my time as a church singer, that many are groping at psalm selection, not only when you have to say goodbye to a dear family member who has passed away, but perhaps also in the baptismal situation, where the priest can ask if there are any special hymns you want to be sung, because most have probably grown up with the Højskole songbook as the songbook, which like collects the Danish song treasure. Then, of course, there are people like Mr. Christian Juhl and others, for whom the Workers' Songbook also plays a role. But I think most people feel that way about the Højskole songbook. It is, like, more natural to go to than, for example. The hymn book. As many psalms slip through the audits slip out of the natural songbook for most Danes, more and more hymns are also alien to many who may not attend the church every Sunday. In this way we as people become poorer, for it may well be that they are still in the hymn book, but if it seems more archaic, rigid, unnatural to have a hymn book on the shelf than the Højskole songbook, then it is the very part of Danish culture that is in the hymn treasure that becomes foreign. The same can be said in relation to the many good, such traditional and historically very important songs that, in revision after revision, slip out of the Højskole songbook: Denmark, for a thousand years, they met in stranglement on the sea, the sailor he must suffer, the Skanderborrig meadows, etc. etc. That is a shame, because the song is probably one of the most immediate and open-minded spaces where we can meet as people. The fact is that hearing a melody that you know and can open up and sing with builds a bridge over the political differences that Mr. Christian Juhl is so busy. That is precisely why Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær is so wrong when he says that this proposal is about digging down a coffin. No, it's about keeping a coffin open to future generations, open to the small nuggets of gold, which are chosen from the quite dependent committee that sits and does continuous revisions of this songbook, the Højskole songbook. Can you say that the Højskole songbook is political? No, it may not be possible to say that this is a songbook that would fit into a particular political party. But it wouldn't and I don't think it's ever going to happen, just as the Working Song Book is probably natural to have standing on the shelf with Mr. Christian Juhl or others on the left, that could be associated with a particular political party. But is there a trend in the revisions that the book regularly reviews? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, There is a clear identity-political battle page in relation to the many especially English-language pop songs, which have no immediate relevance to Danish culture, but are not found in translated editions. There is a clear battle page in relation to the many psalms that just come out. Of course, it is also true that you choose a song that is about Ramadan, because its only quality is that it is about Ramadan. If it was a proper piece of poetry that could be compared to, I think it was Brothersen, sir. Christian Juhl mentioned, or Jakob Knudsen or Pontoppidan or other great poets, one could of course justify it. It is not the case that it must necessarily be excluded. We also have some of Grundtvig's fantastic Pentecostals, which speak of both Jews and Gentiles. It's perfectly natural. But the fact that one chooses from the high school songbook committee to compromise openly on quality, because one wants to choose a song that has a certain battle page politically, naturally says a lot about where this book is going. There we need an alternative and something to stop internationalisation and stick to the things that have held a people together for centuries, because what is the next thing that goes out in the 20th edition? It may be that it is King Christian stood at the mound mast, which Enhedslisten's representative certainly did not like. Probably more hymns aren't coming. But certainly it is that the movement shown by the last four or five audits will continue. That is where, in an increasingly fragmented international agile world, we have to recognise that, just as we have a literary canon, a democracy cannon, a Danish canon, an anchor in life, a sang cannon will be able to maintain the values from which the sacred altar of the High School Book Committee is chosen, because we cannot decide what the private association of the high school movement wants to be in their songbook. But we can have an open and popular debate about what we think is the Danish song treasure. It should not be monopolised in a particular private association's company, which can then make money selling a book that people think is the Danish song tax. It must be anchored much wider. How you do that, I'm completely open to it. It could be that all of us in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, give each other a right of veto. They say: Shoot in with good suggestions, and if someone is against, we draw it. We could also take a random sample of the Danes. I am quite open to the way in which this committee is put together. What I am not open to is that we leave it to a selection of selected dependent people who are then allowed to make a songbook that gradually moves further and further away from what I at least believe that very many Danes regard as the core of the Danish song tax. That is why I am pleased to see once again, as I have said, for the second time today, that there is a marked difference between whether this Parliament is composed of a red majority or a blue majority. The red majority has no problem with the Danish singing tax being slowly erode out, because one has left it to a committee that one has no democratic feel or control over, whereas on the blue side there is a real heart that beats not only for the Højskole songbook or the hymn book, but for the Danish song tax, and which is therefore also willing to engage in a work on how to secure it. I have no doubt about where the ordinary Dane stands. I'm pretty sure for the average Social Democrat, the Højskole songbook and the Working Songbook are equally natural. It may be that Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær and Mr. Christian Juhl has other views and other preferences, but I know many Social Democrats who gladly and fervently sing along at Johannes Ewald's song •King Christian stood by the mound mast. I think they should be allowed to do so, because there is something stronger than our political convictions, and that is our common anchor in history. I can't think of any better tool to convey it than the singing and the poemed word. It is therefore incredibly unfortunate that the left will leave it to a small selection of clearly politically motivated types to decide what should be the Danish song tax. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316230927	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It's only from Mr. Knox's office. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316230930	I would like to hear from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, if he does not think that the Danes sing for pleasure and that they sing the songs they like, whether you make 5, 10 or 15 guns. That is one question. The other one is the one with psalm selection. Well, I have more and more, and now I'm being half-old, got a list of my friends who ask: Christian, if you're in, will you make sure that these are the songs we sing to my funeral? And out of respect for those people, we sing those songs. It is very rare that there are psalms in between, and it is not because I only have a small political circle of friends. I have a relatively large circle and have often been given the great privilege of helping to arrange funerals and such things, and I would say that it would be disrespectful, even if the priest or the undertaker insisted that we would rather choose a few hymns too, so to choose some other songs. Or does the rapporteur not think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231027	Yeah, absolutely. You sing what you want, but you sing what you know first and foremost. Well, it's hard to want something you don't know, and that's what this is all about, sir. Christian Juhl. You can, in this field at least, probably mainly navigate and say that you want to sing it and that song if you know about it. That is why it is so worrying, for example. More and more hymns are slipping out of the Højskole songbook, as it is still the Højskole songbook, which I think most, at least non-socialists, consider the place where the Danish song tax is located. Now, for example, is the time. The Christmas banquet for those who build one of my Christmas psalms, a Hostrupsalm, slipped out. That is to say, only those who also have a psalm book in the bookshelf will have a natural relationship with it in the future, and lure me, if not in ten years' time there will not be many, perhaps just the generation right after me, who will know that psalm at all because it is not in the Højskole songbook anymore. It's hard to choose by choice if you don't know it. I assume so, sir. Christian Juhl agrees with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231131	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231132	Well now I have several vintages of both the Workers' Songbook and the Højskole songbook, and I even have a heirloom, which is a very, very old hymn book, where you even use the very old letters. And there I would say that yes, it is interesting to have them standing and it is interesting to read them, but I think it is wrong to say that there is one monopolised selection of Denmark's song tax. There may be 200 editors. I would guess that Dansk Folkeparti also has a songbook. The Youth of the Danish People's Party certainly has, and they have some songs that I certainly do not like and which I think are on the limit of being able to sing at all. What I mean is that there is, after all, a multitude of song selections, and thus we get a bigger song tax than monopolising it in a cannon committee, and that is what I do not like. Because then there is such authority over all authorities, and that is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231224	I just think, sir. Christian Juhl has got a completely skewed view of how the guns are being used. Well, there are plenty of Danish writers who are not mentioned in the literary cannon list. There are, for example: Johannes Ewald, whom I do not remember is on the literary cannon list, and who has by no means drifted out of history or is in the shadow of Grundtvig and Pontoppidan etc. What the cannon, as I think the Minister for Culture said in his introduction, can and must be a guide and therefore simply pick up on everything that the Højskole songbook neglects. And I don't understand how sir. Christian Juhl with the liberal mind may think that it's okay that things just slip into oblivion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231307	The President is very concerned that we are trying to keep to the speaking time, particularly in view of the late hour. Mrs Zenia Stampe for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231317	I think there was a really interesting argument along the way. Now I understand that it is not about the Ramadan in Copenhagen; now it is about the hymns that go out of the Højskole songbook. I'm sorry, sir. Morten Messerschmidt did not ask me where I would find the hymns that have gone out of the Højskole songbook, because then I think the answer is quite easy, namely in the hymn book It is a little confession that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is afraid that hymns are getting out of the Højskole songbook because he seems to think that the hymn book is so weak. And I just have to say that I disagree fundamentally. Well, I often sing hymns, every time I'm in church. I actually love to sing hymns, and I can't even see that the psalms are threatened because some people are getting out of the Højskole songbook. But then I'd like to ask Mr. Morten Messerschmidt: If we get such a state sang cannon, how many songs should there be in that cannon? Because there are 791 psalms in the psalm book, and I understand that every psalm that goes out is a tragedy because it obviously disappears, even if you can find them online. But what a great work Mr. Morten Messerschmidt say that such a singing cannon is?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231433	Sometimes I wonder whether it is Mrs Zenia Stampe who is giving a speech or whether it is a speech giving Mrs Zenia Stampe, because this is so easy to understand that I would think that it would not be the subject of any controversy at all. But I'll be happy to repeat it, and I'll do it within the 45 seconds that's left. I think most people have a more natural relationship like this with the Højskole songbook than with, for example, the Højskole songbook. The hymn book. I believe that most people regard the psalm book as something that belongs in the church room, as Mrs Zenia Stampe indicates at least. I think it would be a pity if the psalms, for example. The Christmas hymns were something you sang alone in the church. With us we also sing them except last year around the Christmas tree, but how to remember them and hold them as part of the popular non-Church tradition, if that's something the High School Committee says can just lie over in the psalm book. If that becomes an argument for example... taking the Christmas messenger out of the Højskole songbook means that it will be psalm songs in the church alone, but not as part of everyday life. It is clear that for a conservative person not for one of the representatives of emancipation, I understand that where Christian faith is a natural and welcome part of everyday life, that is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231549	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231550	No, it turns out to be the other way around, because the psalms are part of my everyday life for me, and I haven't attended high school. I don't know the Højskole songbook very well ▪ I was actually really fond of the new one, because some songs came in, I actually had a pretty close relationship with. But I have a close relationship with the psalm book, and it's at home. I sing Christmas songs for my kids. I know them by heart, they're part of my everyday life. I just think it is really interesting if what the Danish People's Party says today is that the psalms and the hymn book are on their way out of Danish culture and that it is not even part of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's own everyday culture. Then maybe I think it's something else we need than a state cannon. Then we may need to do a little more advertising for the hymn book, but it may be just Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who has a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231638	I don't even know what to say about that. Well, it's almost like biblical tongues. It's like Mrs. Zenia Stampe starts somewhere, and then she doesn't know where she's going, and then she ends up in my private hymn song. It is, of course, in some way very dear, that is, with that care, with some real meaning in such rhetorical development there wasn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231707	Thank you, Mr President, to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Morten Messerschmidt. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231722	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 23 March 2021. First of all, Mr President, I give the floor to the rapporteur on the questioners. Sikandar Siddique, to justify the request. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316231756	Thank you for the floor. 100 years of struggle for equal working conditions for both sexes have not led to equal pay and equal participation in top management in industry. Despite formal and legal equality between the sexes, the world's most free and equal country has not yet succeeded in putting men and women on an equal footing in the labour market. More and more highly educated women increasingly occupy the private sector, yet this does not lead to more female top executives or board members. Women's experience building in industry today matches men's, and yet women are often kept out of management and board positions because of unconscious bias and prejudices that they cannot and will not. When candidates for management and board posts are elected, men tend to see their own reflections, even if there are obvious women, women candidates who would have been better choices for the company, the profession and society. Free Greens stand for a level playing field in a diverse universe of diversity, where civil society helps to set the framework for society's regulation. We work alone and together with other parties with a wide range of civil society actors, including: KIB-Women In the Boards of Peter Horn and his strong team of representatives from the business community who now focus on equality issues. At one of KIB's conferences in September 2020, the participants from top management and top management and most parliamentary parties committed themselves to presenting the adoption text of the conference in the Folketing. The text included proposals for statutory notices for vacant management and board posts to ensure that as many candidates as possible apply for the vacant top positions so that companies have as many suitable candidates as possible to choose from. If it were up to the Free Greens alone, today we would have put forward the original text, which we, together with the other conference participants, handed out in September 2020. Since there has subsequently been no political agreement on the content of the whole text, we are putting forward a proposal for adoption, which is agreed among all the parties involved. I very much welcome the fact that the public announcement proposal will continue to be part of the forthcoming relevant initiatives for solutions to bring us closer to a society of equality and equal value and will be translated into future legislative proposals by 2021-22. If, contrary to expectations, it is not possible for the government and the support parties to make such a proposal, the Free Greens will make proposals to promote women's participation in the top positions of society over the period. I thank the government and the support parties for their support and look forward to the constructive and fruitful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316232059	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. I would like to begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Equal Opportunities for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316232124	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique to give us the opportunity to talk about a central and current agenda in the field of equal opportunities. As I think he is quite right about what the government will do to promote equality in public and private management and boards. In Denmark we often pride ourselves on being one of the world's most equal countries, and we are far along the way. However, when it comes to women in management, we are lagging behind both in relation to the Nordic countries, with which we often compare ourselves, but also in relation to many other countries in the rest of the world. The figures speak their clear language: Denmark is number 102 out of 153 countries compared to the proportion of women in management. The World Economic Forum's annual Global Gender Gap Report for 2020. And if we look at developments in Denmark, things are moving very slowly. In an inventory from Statistics Denmark, it appears that the proportion of women at the top management level in the private sector has increased from 9.4 per cent. 12.3%. from 2010 to 2017, i.e. barely 3 percentage points in seven years. It looks better in the public sector: here, the proportion of women at the top management level has increased from 23.7%. 30.8%. during the same period. However, it is still not flashy and not at all when compared with the high predominance of women employed in the public sector. With current developments, there is a long way to go to achieve a gender balance in management, especially in private business. We can and must do better. It's not about the individual woman who's going into boards or top management. It's about all people's lives and everyday life. For everyone, regardless of gender, must have equal opportunities to pursue the career they want, whether it is on the construction site or in the boardroom. Because we want a society in which both men and women have the opportunity to influence and sit on the table when decisions are taken. And because it is simply an advantage to have greater gender diversity in management. Both Danish and international studies show that greater diversity in management has a number of beneficial effects, e.g. for the company's economy and innovation. When top managers from organisations such as Danske Erhverv, Dansk Industri and Nationalbank point out that the lack of equality in business is an economic problem for Denmark, we must listen. And the government does. Therefore, there should also be no doubt that it is the government's ambition to support that we have more female top executives in both the Danish business community and the state. We want to make real progress in this area. The current rules on target numbers and gender balance policies in private and state boards were introduced by the former social democratic-led government in 2012. The rules oblige each company or institution to set a target figure for their own board of directors and to draw up a policy to promote a gender balance in management. An evaluation of legislation from 2017 unfortunately shows that the annual growth of the proportion of women on private boards did not exceed 1.1%. So the rules had a limited effect. Nevertheless, the bourgeois government chose to maintain the rules unchanged. There should be no doubt that it is this government's ambition to strengthen legislation and to bring about real progress. The government will therefore launch a series of initiatives to support and promote female top executives, both in the Danish business community and in the state. In the public domain, we will look at whether we can expand the target audience and increase transparency in order to create more visibility on the objectives of development. We are very open to input from the parties. Our ambition is that we can put forward legislative proposals both in my area and in the area of the Minister for Industry in the next parliamentary assembly. Now I would like to give the floor to the Minister of Industry, who has the primary responsibility for legislation relating to private companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316232604	Thank you to the Minister for Gender Equality. After the Minister's reply, a brief comment is given to the rapporteurs, and then the Minister for Economic Affairs comes to the end. I can see that Mrs Birgitte Bergman has one comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316232617	Thank you, Minister. I'm here with a study by YouGov on behalf of Krifa, where 60%. of the women surveyed say they do not want quotas on boards. And I think that is simply an expression of that, I can at least say for myself that we women do not want to be employed because of a quota, but because of our qualifications. Does that impress the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316232647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316232648	Of course, all studies always make an impression. Nor is it in the government's plans to introduce real quotas. I mean, a real quota is something other than a target figure. But what I also think is part of the debate is that it is not, of course, a question of women being elected to management posts or boards if they do not have the qualifications to do so. There are indications in the boardrooms that there are structures that help to make women unattractive to their talents and that there are not those structures in the company or in the public institution that make women more responsible, at least not to the same extent as their male colleagues. That is where we want to promote something, so that it is not the less talented who are elected over the most talented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316232742	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316232746	Thank you. I was very pleased to hear the Minister's speech and to hear that the ministers are planning to table legislative proposals. Then I just want to hear from the Minister whether one of those legislative proposals could perhaps be this proposal to publish these target figures that companies are setting, so that they can be published in a better way so that there is more transparency than there is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316232810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316232811	As I said in my opening remarks, we are completely open to good ideas. These are, of course, discussions that we expect to have with hopefully a broad majority in the Folketing. And one of the things that is clearly considered is to create greater transparency with the targets being set, and also with the gender distribution in the boards and managements.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316232837	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. I can therefore give the floor to the Minister for Industry to reply to the question. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316232908	Thank you. Like my colleague, I would also like to begin by thanking Mr. Sikandar Siddique to raise a very interesting subject and an important matter in this question debate. As the Minister for Gender Equality also pointed out in his speech, we in the government are very aware that it is going too slowly to reverse developments and it is going too slowly to increase the proportion of women in the top management levels in Danish companies. That is why we are concerned about how we can work out some measures that can help support the business community in getting a larger share of women in the top management bodies in both Danish business and also in the state sector. We simply believe that we are missing too much of the talent stock by not having a sufficiently large proportion of women in the top management bodies. I would also like to point out that, as a government and as a political body, although I know that we all want to, we cannot carry out this task alone, because there is also a great responsibility on the part of companies and organisations to speed up this development. But what I can tell you is that we in the government have already started work. We also need to recognise that this is also one of the efforts that have been delayed because of corona, as there has been a lot of work going on in other areas, but we have already started work. That is why we have not finally determined on what precise solutions we will end up addressing, and that is why today's debate is also very welcome, given that it will also be an opportunity to have solutions and good ideas brought forward from the parties of the Folketing and from the rapporteurs, which we can take further in this work. So I would just like to use the very last part of my speaking time here to emphasise once again that we in the government recognise the wish of the questioner and many of the parties to help find the right solutions, and the government will therefore call for a further discussion with the parties on possible measures to get this work started. Like my colleague, the Minister for Employment, I look forward very much to the further debate this evening and to the input that may come.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316233133	Thank you to the Minister for Business. It does not appear that there are brief comments to the Minister for Industry. While the platform is being made clear, I can say that we are now moving on to the debate and therefore also to the general rules for short remarks, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316233158	I would like to start by thanking both ministers for their willingness to respond to the debate on the question. Most people probably agree that current gender equality development does not meet the objective of gender equality in the boards of private companies and at the other levels of management of companies. The same applies to the UN World Goal 5 on Gender Equality and the participation of women in governance. As you know, the UN's worldwide goal of equality is part of the small world target logo that many of us advertise daily by wearing it on the outside. Today, women make up almost 40%. in the private sector, yet there is only 19 per cent. women on company boards and only 15%. women on the boards of management of companies. Only 75 out of the country's 1,000 largest companies today have a female CEO in charge. The government has looked at how, among other things. legislation can be adapted so that the development of the gender balance in enterprises can be positively pushed forward. Developments have shown us that it requires more action and more initiatives. Equal representation of both sexes in top positions of industry will make the opportunities of female candidates visible and create career incentives and encouragement for more young women to take up higher education, acquire management skills and pursue management positions in the private sector, as has already been the case in the public sector. One way to ensure equal access for the sexes to top business positions is to publish listings of all vacant board and management posts, thereby making recruitment the top of business transparency. The idea is that the top positions of the private sector are announced through statutory public notices, in which all companies with 10 years' work and more are required to inform about their vacant management and management positions at management level. Quoted undertakings may be exempted from the publication of top positions at the level of the management if a public notice would affect the economic situation of an undertaking, e.g.: where a management or board member is replaced prematurely. Information about the unemployed is sent to the Danish Business Authority, which already has contact and register information about all companies. Unemployed top posts are disseminated here on a website, e.g. via a portal with public access, where all interested parties can subscribe to the vacant posts. If Erhvervsstyrelsen is not able to perform the task, it can be tendered to companies within the job market. Public announcements will give all candidates equal access to the viewing and searching of the vacant top posts. It will provide companies with a much greater range of candidates to choose from and a much wider recruitment field of competent, potential managers and board members. From a competence and resource point of view, there are major socio-economic and competitive advantages for companies that take advantage of a much wider and more competent and diverse recruitment field. It will continue to be the owners and managers of companies who decide who they hire. If they do not choose the best candidates, they will be affected by competitiveness and thus by the economy. The owners and managers of the company will therefore per year. automatics become sharper on choosing in a wider field. By supporting this request, we can move from speech to action and initiate a process of equality that promotes equal access to the top positions of society and thus a balanced gender distribution in the Danish management halls and in the boardrooms. In order to get Denmark back to the forefront, all our talents must be brought into play in the private companies. With the proposal for mandatory job postings and future initiatives, we now have the opportunity to push the gender balance in a better direction in order to get all the competent management talents into play and to have a much better and wider societal use of educational investment. Business is waiting for legislators, what are we waiting for? I look forward to putting action behind the words of the government and behind the common ideals of gender equality. Then, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Free Greens, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that everyone, regardless of gender, must have equal opportunities in both public and private management and boards, and thus access to the forums where decisions on society are made. The Folketing notes that the current rules on target numbers and policies for the underrepresented sex in the senior management bodies have not had the desired effect. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government wishes to launch new initiatives to support better representation and that the Government will therefore convene the parties of the Danish Parliament and the questioner to discuss the relevant initiatives with a view to bringing forward legislative proposals by 2021-22 at the latest. The Danish Parliament also notes that the government in the forthcoming Assembly will take the initiative that the parties of the Folketing discuss the gender-based labour market, including equal pay and a better distribution of parental leave, with a view to finding solutions that bring us closer to a society of equality and equality. • V 84). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316233739	Thank you to the rapporteur for the proposal for adoption, which will be included in the further negotiations. Since there are no brief comments to the rapporteur, I would ask the rapporteur to prepare the platform for the next rapporteur, who is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316233822	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the authors for raising the issue of more women on board and management. In the social democracy we agree that something needs to be done. It is simply far too slow to achieve a gender balance. Unless there is a change in recruitment, at the present rate we will have achieved a balanced gender distribution in the management of private companies until the end of this century. So something has to be done. We agree on that. And it is deeply unsatisfactory that in Denmark we are lagging behind our neighbouring countries and large parts of Europe. This is unsatisfactory because gender equality is not only about equality; it is also very much about society as a whole, including the competitiveness of companies, which we know well to improve, the higher the diversity of management and management. A few years ago, a research group of the International Monetary Fund conducted a rather comprehensive study of the link between corporate profitability and the number of women in top management. The research group had analysed no less than 2 million European companies in 34 countries. The result is clear: companies where there are also women on the board of directors and board of directors have a higher profitability. Value creation is just higher in companies that have diverse management. And it is deeply distressing that in a country such as Denmark, where women take such long courses, we cannot find a way of recruiting women to top positions. It's a waste of talent. The reason must be partly seen in the legislation, but it is also about the culture that is in the workplace. In 2012, the S-R-SF government introduced the law on gender composition targets in boards and management boards, and this meant that the largest companies, if they did not have at least a 40-60 distribution between men and women, had to draw up a policy to achieve it. But we must also recognise that that law has not helped well enough. Today we can all see that developments have stalled. That is why I am very, very pleased that the government is setting out to tackle the important task of creating more equality between women and men in management and management. It does not come with law alone; it is a joint task. Businesses and organisations must also contribute to development and help create a better culture. Once again, thank you to the authors, but I would also like to thank other parties, including those who have spoken. The Radical Left and also the SF, which in the past raised the issue in this Chamber. I am glad that we are moving a little further today and I look forward to the debate. In the Social Democratic Party we are included in the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur for the questioners read out. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234121	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It's first, sir. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234126	Thank you to the rapporteur for a fine speech. I am very pleased that we have put together a majority on a text for adoption. I also think that the whole Corona situation is, of course, a good excuse to say that there is a lot of legislation that could not be made because it has simply been in crisis. That is why I am pleased that we will then be debating this and that the government will already come up with a concrete proposal in 2021-22 on the basis of the input from the parties and the parties in the Folketing. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can reveal what initiatives or ideas the Socialists are taking to the negotiations to secure more women on board positions and management posts in the management boards, and whether the rapporteur could at this stage unveil initiatives and ideas and proposals that will be included in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234226	No, actually, I can't. I am in this situation right now that I very much, very much, would like to listen primarily to the other parties and hear about what comes with the negotiations, what moves and what sees of opportunities. I think we can discuss this for a very long time if I mention a few things today, so I will refrain from doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234248	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234249	Then I would like to thank you for your invitation and make a suggestion. I hope that the Socialists will be involved in making these public announcements, as the Women's Boards organisation proposes, so that we have statutory public announcements so that we can have a much wider candidate field and that we can have more women on board and in management positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234318	I look forward to the rapporteur bringing it to the negotiating table. So let's talk there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234326	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234330	Thank you. I just need to understand whether it is the rapporteur's view that there are companies out there who are consciously having a worse result because they do not want women on board and management. In other words, when reference is made to a report which says that if they have more women and more diversity in management and board, they get a better result, but if we do not have equality and thus have women on board, then there must be some companies who are consciously saying today: No, we want a worse result, because we do not want women to be on board and board. Is it really the rapporteur's view that there are companies out there who are willing to have a worse result for their shareholders because of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234406	No, I'm not familiar with that. Well, I am aware of that, and this is something the companies themselves say, that you tend to recruit people for management posts and board posts in your network, and when you look around in your network, you will of course most often look at people of your own sex, and when there are many men in advance, they will be men and point to them. It is very common, and there is virtually nothing unpleasant about it. I have never heard any companies say that they would deliberately have worse figures on the bottom line. That'd be weird, wouldn't it? As I said in my speech, this is also about culture and habits that we must have done away with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234442	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234443	I have also read that report and that you could get an 8-percent improvement if you had more women. Well, there is no company that says no to an 8-percent improvement on the bottom line if they can just change around the sexes. It's just cuckoo. But I would like to ask: should this apply only to private and public managers and boards of directors? What about refuse disposal workers, and what about sewer workers? There is a great over-representation of men there. What will social democracy do to bring more women there? For it must not be only in top management positions in private companies that must be equal. I guess it has to be everywhere else in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234515-2	Of course. Surely we must fight for equality all around, and that can only be an advantage if we take the debates in all the forums we can now come to. Now we start with this, and I think that's a really good place to start. When companies themselves say that it is a challenge to provide women and to find them, then we have to find out how we can help them with that. So this is a good place to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234536	Thank you to Mrs Birgitte Vind. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316234603	Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Sikandar Siddique to raise this debate. There is no doubt that this is an important issue, because more women are needed around the Danish management and board of directors. We're gonna miss out on a huge amount of talent if we don't get more women into senior positions. There is no doubt that diversity benefits companies and that companies that have diversity perform better. Having said that, there should also be no doubt that we in the Left are opposed to more burdens on business, especially in the situation we are in at the moment. We do not believe that legislation is what solves the problem. It is a problem that we fully acknowledge. That is why it is also important that we focus on this. One of the places that requires our focus in particular is the education system. Denmark has one of the most gender-separated education systems in the world. We owe it to each other and to our societies to rectify this, because the gender-based education system leads to a gender-based labour market. In Denmark, for example, Ninety-six percent. by the nurses and 97% by the nurses. of the day nurseries, women, and 99 per cent of the day nurseries. of the walls, carpenters, plumbers and electricians and 76 per cent. by the engineers are men. These are numbers that we need to focus on. It is certainly not a natural law that 96 per cent. of nurses in Denmark are women when 31%. of the Italian nurses are men. If we are to ensure diversity in Danish boards and managements, we must also ensure diversity in the education system and in the labour market, because our gender-based education and the labour market put the seeds of a large number of the problems we are talking about in the field of equality and which we cannot just solve with a snap. It is difficult to imagine just approximately equal gender distribution of directors and board positions in the private sector, when women account for only one third of private sector employees. We need to look at the food chain, and that is also why we in the Left have tabled a resolution to set up a Commission to ensure better gender balance in the education system. The Commission shall, inter alia: examine and make recommendations on how more people from the under-represented sex come into gender-difficult education with a shortage of labour, and examine and make recommendations for educational initiatives that can ensure more women in those courses that typically lead to leadership positions. Then we can focus on many good voluntary initiatives taken by the Danish companies, because a lot really is being done in this area, and we need more of that. Danish Industry has e.g. created the Women on Board database, where companies can find their next female board members, and many public and private institutions have adopted policies to ensure that women are better represented. We fully agree that we are certainly not in the end, but it is important to look at the whole issue. This benefits, for example. Nor does equality mean that women take much more maternity leave than men and that more women choose to work part-time. So we must not think that all the problems are solved simply by introducing more burdens and rules into business and more legislation. We have to come all the way around. As I said, we need to focus on the gender-based education system and the labour market and the culture that makes more men come to the top, and then we must pay tribute to the many companies that are already doing a great deal in this area. I would therefore like to read the joint text adopted by the Left and Conservatives, which reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that there is a shortage of women in management and boards and that we will miss an important talent mass if we do not get more women in top management. The Danish Parliament notes that there are several reasons why we do not see more women on board and management. The Danish Parliament notes that gender-based education, a gender-based labour market, maternity and culture are some of the reasons why the number of women in senior management lags behind. The Danish Parliament notes that companies should not be subject to additional administrative costs, additional burdens and bureaucracy at a time when all resources should be used to ensure the maintenance of jobs and the long-term survival of companies. The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to initiate initiatives to promote the food chain for women's boards and management, including looking at the gender-based education system and the labour market. V 85). Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235124	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First of all, it is Mrs Astrid Carøe, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235134	Thank you. And thank you for a really nice speech and for acknowledging this problem. I can of course sense that it is very important for the Left that we do not put burdens on companies, and I understand that it is also important that we do not do so, especially at this time of the corona. However, the publication of target figures set by companies does not mean that companies will be burdened. They must set them up already today, and all business has to do is publish them on their website. Couldn't the Left be a part of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235205	We would prefer to look at solutions that really solve the problem. The thing about publishing numbers, setting target numbers, etc., we've tried we've actually tried it. I believe that it was back in 2012 that the then Minister for Gender Equality also introduced it, and one could write oneself out of it. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we think that a great many things are happening, and we think that if we are to look at something that can be done from Christiansborg's side, it is not further artificial action; we need to look at the real problem that, as we see it, starts in the gender-separated education system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235251	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235253	Now we haven't done this publishing the target numbers. It is true that in 2012 the then government put forward this proposal to make target figures, but we have not tried to get them published yet, so this is an initiative that we do not yet know about working. I love the fact that the Left wants to talk about this with the gender-based education system, and I look forward to talking much more about that, but are there really no challenges, even if we solve it? We can see, of course, that although there are a great many women who are nurses, there are still more men who become managers in that area as a percentage. So do we not have a problem apart from the gender-based education system, or does the rapporteur simply think that this can only be solved by it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235338	No. I didn't quite understand the question. Did it go on that there are also more male leaders in the public sector? The figures for the public sector actually show that there are a great many women managers in the public sector, so no, I see no problem with that. However, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is incredible that there are 96 per cent. female nurses in Denmark, and when we look at a country like Italy, there are 31%. male nurses. So, yes, I think we should look for a lot of it in our education system from which we recruit for our labour market, because we have a very gender-separated education system and a very gender-separated labour market. We believe that is one of the things that will really be able to move.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235421	The next brief remark is to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235425	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a very good speech, even though it felt a bit like a roller coaster ride, because I was so happy inside when the rapporteur of the Left acknowledged the problem and said that here we really have something to look at and solve, but then there was just this, but there were several times, and one of them was, of course, that we should not look at this and not burden the companies, given that there is coronatide too. But then I would like to ask: what if we step outside of coronatide? Is it so possible that the Left could support targets and policies in private companies, for example??
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235511	We would very much like to encourage companies to look at the whole talent pool and perhaps also to make the initiatives that I can see. I happened to look at a number of different companies in different industries, and I saw that Hafnia in shipping has created a huge programme for women, because they want women to be more expressed, to make their views known, but also that they are looking for some leading positions. It's powers that come from themselves. We in the Left do not believe that we here from Christiansborg can come up with solutions for individual companies, but we believe that we must encourage companies to take those initiatives, and there are more and more who come along. So no, we will not be supporting any target numbers or quotas or anything else, either now or after the corona period, which hopefully will soon be over.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235601	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235603	I thought so, and there we must fundamentally disagree on whether we should leave it to the voluntary, what I certainly do not believe in solves the problem. Something else that the rapporteur also saw was about maternity, namely that there was something to look at there too. Then I'll be curious to know if that means that the Left is for an earmarked maternity leave for fathers. In any case, this is something that we in the Radical Left are in favour of and that we also believe can help women to develop talent in their workplace. So I am very curious to hear the rapporteur of the Left on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235637-2	This is something we need to negotiate a little. Well, I look forward to the Minister calling us to talk about maternity, and we look forward to that very much. In addition, there is a directive which we cannot really avoid. It has been the policy of the Left that the individual family knows best what the distribution should be. So that will be my answer to the rapporteur for the Radicals. We look forward to the negotiations, we look forward to discussing it, we also look forward to seeing what models there are, because we cannot prevent the maternity rules from changing. And yes, we basically disagree. We believe more that companies themselves know best what is best for them than that we from Christiansborg, as the rapporteur says, should tell companies how to run their business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235724	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235725	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would say that I was not so positive about the speech, since the rapporteur does not want to take part in the proposal. Now the rapporteur is talking about education and the food chain, and we have seen that women in higher education have actually overtaken men and that the number is significantly increasing compared to the last ten years. We can see that more women enter the private sector, yet they do not follow when it comes to top positions on boards and in management. So my point is that more needs to be done than just looking at education and the food chain. In his speech, the rapporteur mentions that we should not legislate from here, but that companies should be encouraged to do so. Can the rapporteur give an indication of what the rapporteur means more specifically by encouraging businesses?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235829	I would like to pay tribute to the companies that I said. Now I just mentioned Hafnia in shipping. It's just one business. In my speech I also mentioned DI's Women on Board. I think we should, of course, commend those who do something good from here and say: more of it. But that does not mean that we have to tell them what they have to do. We really believe that the companies themselves know what is best for them, and we certainly do not believe that if there is a woman who should be suitable for a board post, the company should say: No, you know what, although we can get much more by having you, we choose you from. We don't believe that. So that will be my answer. And it wasn't because I didn't think, sir. Sikandar Siddique's adoption text was quite excellent. That's it. There was just something in it that suggested that you might sneak in some legislation and some bureaucracy and some extra tasks for companies, and we cannot do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316235924	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317235925	Then I'll ask you one more time anyway. We must, of course, commend those who do well; of course we must. If there is a Danish company that does well, they must be praised. However, the rapporteur said that we must encourage companies to do so. What exactly does it mean to encourage: Is it simply to commend them? Because if we look at those of our neighbouring countries that are far ahead of us, for example. Iceland, we can see that you go in and regulate. That's where you go in and democratisation. We do not do that to a large extent in Denmark, and that is why we are also on what I think is an 11th place in relation to our Nordic neighbours. We therefore believe that we can look around the world and see which countries are doing well and which communities are doing well, and in Iceland they have the Icelandic model, they have quotas. So that's what works. But it is just to clarify: what does the rapporteur think when the rapporteur says that we should encourage companies to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000027	Well, we think that companies should learn from each other. And yes, we highlight those who do well, and we point to: More of it. There may be some who make some special measures to allow women to choose a particular direction. I would say that there is not just one solution, and that is not just the education system. There is also some culture that we need to change. After all, all figures show that women work less than men. Women will have different priorities, and we must also have that looked at. So there's a lot of culture in this, too. Having said that, it may well be that the rapporteur would like to use the legislation as a behavior regulator. We're not interested in that. I am not interested in having gold skirts for Denmark, as they were called in Norway, as it was the case that quotas, 40-percent quotas, were made for board posts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000116	The next brief remark is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000118	I know that it is midnight, but it is clear that if there are quotas for how many women there should be, then you will be higher on a ranking if you have set quotas, compared to otherwise. All right, let it go. I would like to ask what the rapporteur is saying here: is there any confidence that companies will make the choices that are best for themselves and that make sense to them? Does the rapporteur not have the same confidence in the young people who choose education and training that they actually choose the training they are interested in and that leads to the profession they are actually interested in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000200	Yes, and that commission should not make recommendations on how we can force young people to take other courses, but go in and look at what makes you choose what you do. Is it something cultural that lies in it? Is that the way we guide the young people? It is a little exciting to find out why we can see that they apply to certain subjects, and where they are underrepresented as gender, their apostasy is also much greater. So let's go inside and look at it as a whole. There's no compulsion in it. That is the last thing we want from the Left. But we would like to know if there are any motives we can change. Can we get some more male educators? If we can get some more nurses who are men, we'd like to look at it and look at the recommendations. But, of course, it is without compulsion, and it is something that people choose for themselves. But we would like to see what the pattern is and whether we can do something different.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000245	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000249	In fact, this is an area where there is a great deal of empire already in which we know that there are biological differences that make men choose something and women choose something else. Denmark is one of the places around the world where we have the most equality; where you can choose freely which education you want. It doesn't cost money. In the societies that have the greatest equality in the system, we also see the greatest differentiation in output out there because people can choose according to their interests, and that is an advantage. It is therefore a huge force for a society that people can choose according to interest instead of being forced into quotas or by some social structures that the state says they have to go there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000331	The rapporteur should not try to make it sound like the Left is going to force anyone to do anything. Because that's the last thing we want. I'd like to go into a freedom battle about the right to choose at any time. But this is about whether we can do something different. What is the material we recruit the young people with? How do we guide them? Can we do this another way? It is a little thought-provoking that in a country like Italy, which in many ways resembles us, there are 31%. male nurses, compared to the fact that we have 4%. in Denmark. We'd like to go inside and look at it. This is definitely not about coercion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000406	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The day has only just begun. Here you go to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000430	Yeah, we got a long time left. What time do we start tomorrow or in a few hours? I have also looked forward to hearing what ministers will do to ensure equality in public and private management and boards. But if there's something I don't want, it's that somebody's making me a curling field or anyone else. I simply believe that we have other problems than ensuring that there are private companies that have enough women. For me, equality is equal rights, equality and equality between the sexes, equal opportunities. In other words, we men and women have the same rights and the same opportunities. Even if we want the same thing, it's just not always safe. We can, of course, settle for our committee here in the Danish Parliament. I am on the Committee on Health and Social Affairs. That's what I wanted. There are also most women. When we look to the Tax Committee and the Finance Committee, there are most men. They're the ones who want it. Should we change it because we think it should be different because it should be equally distributed? Maybe you should have done it a long time ago. But it doesn't have to be at my expense for me to be taken away from any of what I have to do. We are what we are. I've been on board since I was 15 years old, and it's been a lot with men, and I've been offered a lot of board posts in companies with men to whom I say no. Is there anyone who should do so that they say: Have you got the job or board office because you're a man or because you're a woman? We are also women who want you to keep your hands off. We will be able to get the positions or the board positions in which we sit. I was skeptical about a report from 2017 and I think there are others who have mentioned it, where it appears that there are 43.7%. women in public administration. It's not enough. That's not 50 percent, they say. Or you don't rest until it's over 50 percent. Women? At least that's how you hear it when you listen to the shimmering feminists. Then you look at the private stuff. Well, how can private people dare that they only have 19%. Women? They can't do that. Well, honestly, if I have a private company and I only want men sitting, then damn it, that's my choice. Maybe I can't stand sitting with women. You don't want me to do that? Or maybe I think men are better suited to the company I have. I don't think anyone from in here is gonna decide that. I think it's pathetic and sorry, the two ministers. You're both saying something has to be done. Why don't you start at your own place? You in the government can come up and tell how many men sit as ministers and how many women. You can also come up and tell me how many department heads are sitting there: how many are there of men and women? If you really want to do this, why don't you start with yourself? So it's pathetic. So no thanks to the Minister or the government for taking further initiatives to achieve more equality here and there. We can do it ourselves. I want to be elected because of my qualifications and not because of my sex. So the Danish People's Party and New Citizens have together a proposal for adoption, and I will read this out here: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Her Majesty The Queen as Head of State, Mrs Helle Thorning Schmidt and Mrs Mette Frederiksen as prime ministers, Mrs Barbara Bertelsen as Head of Department of the Prime Minister's Office, Mrs Lise-Lotte Rebel and Mrs Marianne Christiansen as bishops, Mrs Maria Rørby-Rønn as Director-General of the DR, and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard as Chairman of the Danish Parliament, Mrs Ritt Bjerregaard, Mrs Mariann Fischer Boel, Mrs Connie Hedegaard and Mrs Margrethe Vestager as EU Commissioners, all of the Left Party leaders and a long strip of business leaders have all succeeded in reaching their prestigious top positions without quotas or other state regulation. On this basis, the Danish Parliament recommends maintaining the current rules. • V 86).
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000920	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. There is a brief comment. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317000925	Now the rapporteur's speech was marked by force and by the fact that it is about coercion and quotas. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur, in relation to the specific proposal I mentioned from the speaking chair of Parliament, about these public notices. There's no compulsion in it. It is still the rapporteur who can choose to have 19 men in his business if the rapporteur so wishes. This just means that everyone can see posters for positions at a certain level of management that you can apply for, so that there will be a much wider candidate field. It is then entirely up to the company itself to invite for an interview and hire. So this part of the proposal doesn't contain any compulsion. Could the Danish People's Party be involved in this, so that you can have more transparency and a broader candidate field?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317001033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317001035	Now I have not been heard saying or reading anything about coercion. What I hear from the rapporteur is forced to look something up. And no, we should not decide what private companies should do. So I can't help it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317001045	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317001104	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Sikandar Siddique to summon this very important request today. If we compare ourselves with our Nordic neighbours and at European level, we are lagging seriously behind in terms of equality, and that is not least when it comes to women in management and boards. In fact, half of the largest Danish companies do not have a single woman on their boards. Denmark recently moved from a number 95 seat to number 102 on the World Economic Forum's inventory of women in management in the world's countries number 102. It's embarrassing. The fact that equality does not come about by itself, but requires political initiatives, is something that we have gradually pointed out from this platform during the last parliamentary year. Because if my generation of women and future generations are to see that there really is equal opportunities, then we must roll up our sleeves and act in companies, but also here at Christiansborg. The largest Danish companies have for a number of years been required to draw up targets and policies for the gender composition of the managements. But has it helped? Not when Denmark is number 102 when it comes to equality in management. The ongoing evaluations of the targeted scheme have told the same story. The measures that we have are simply not effective enough, and the companies are not living up to what we have imposed on them here either. The system of target figures must be more binding and more transparent. Transparency is a rather important cure for ensuring equality. We have also talked about this several times over the last year. Whatever comes to the fight against sexual harassment, to equal pay or to ensure more women on the Danish boards, the cure is openness. In SF we want to be a part of talking about solutions. In the SF we have previously proposed the publication of target figures, and we have dealt with motions for resolutions tabled by the Radical Left on the same subject. I still think that is a very good solution. It can be a motivating factor for companies' work on equality, and it provides more transparency; transparency for the future employee who would like to know about the company's relationship, and for customers and business partners who attach high importance to diversity. The publication of target figures can thus become a kind of competition parameter • a CSR action. In the SF we believe in the system of targets and policies, but it is also very clear that the rules need to be tightened and updated. Here again I propose publication of target numbers as an important tool that we can pick up from the box. Another proposal that can be tampered with is what we are discussing today, namely a call to publish notices for management and management positions. We think that's a good idea in the SF too. If we are to ensure equal opportunities for men and women in the labour market in such a general way, and we must do so, then some individual initiatives cannot stand alone. It must go hand in hand with other solutions. In particular, the lack of fatherhood is important, as has also been mentioned several times, and here we have in the SF for many years thought that you should have 3 months earmarked maternity each. That is why I am also looking forward to the European Union's directive on leave finally being able to move in that area too, so that we can eradicate one of the greatest cracks on equality that we have today. Then I welcome the fact that ministers will call for negotiations and that they promise to put forward legislative proposals in the next parliamentary year. It's nice to have a government that would also like to move in this area, although we would have liked to have seen it go a little faster in the SF. Finally, I should like to welcome from Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten, who cannot be here, but who also supports the adoption text, as Mr. Sikandar Siddique read earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317001456	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317001523	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that today's debate and the general debate on equality are inevitable. It is a debate which has been raised on several occasions and which, unfortunately, was slightly derailed the last time the Radical Left brought it into the Chamber with a motion for a resolution. It is a debate that is extremely important, a debate that is good to take, but which also concerns an area that requires action. Last year, when we in the Radical Left tabled a motion for a resolution that we should have targets and policies for the proportion of women in the senior management bodies of private companies, the resolution was rejected. And for some, the main argument was that because of the corona crisis, the time was not right. But then one has to ask oneself honestly: when is the time for equality even right? This was not true when Danish Women's Society in the late 1800s demanded women's right to education, but in 1875 women were given the right to go to university. This was not true when Elna Munch argued in 1913 for women's right to vote, but two years later women could also vote for the Parliament. Nor was it right when the red socks in the 1970s started their struggle for equal pay and equal conditions for men and women, but in 1976 the Folketing adopted the new equal pay law. So even though the heavy dark clouds of the coronapandemic are hanging over us right now, we in the Danish Parliament have to deal with the other problems, which we also have a responsibility to solve, even if time doesn't feel quite right. We cannot wait until the dark clouds are over, because it takes action now and here if we want equality. We need target numbers and policies for the top management of private companies. And we can also discuss many other things, as other rapporteurs have pointed out, such as: earmarked maternity leave for fathers and also public notices, which was mentioned by the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Let me stress that targets are more than a bridge over this gender gap, because with both women and men in the top management battle, the economic bottom line of companies will also be lifted. Several reports point to this. One of them was created back in 2016 by ISS, and the report shows that companies with more equality in management are doing better financially. In fact, the study showed that the most diverse companies also earn an average of 12.6 per cent. more than companies with lower diversity and diversity. So equality and diversity in management are not just a question of formalism; it is a question of economics, a question of equal opportunities regardless of gender, a question of breaking with the unconscious bias, and it requires action and not just words. I hope that in other parties and in business you can follow this point, i.e. that diversity creates a competitive business, that diversity creates growth, that diversity creates opportunities. And I very much welcome the debate we have had today, at least so far, and I very much welcome the positive approach taken by the Minister for Gender Equality and the Minister for Industry to resolve this problem. That is what we in the Radical Left wanted when we tabled a resolution on the same thing that we are discussing today. So thank you from here, and also thank you to Mr. Sikandar Siddique to make this request.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317001922	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317001925	I'm a little curious about these numbers. Is the indicative target figure? Is this something that needs to be met by the Radical Left? Well, I can have a goal figure that I'd like to weigh 95 kg on May 1st, and then I can just eat on, right? So the question is: are there any binding targets? And should it be a requirement to live up to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317001945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317001948	Thank you for the question. Yes, we see it as the case that companies have to set targets, and once they have achieved them, it will be positive to see them set up follow-up targets, so that you do not just set a target figure that 1 out of 19 board members should be a woman. However, there must be follow-up targets to be set and policies developed in the company unless you already have a 40-60 distribution. That is the Radical Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002018	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002021	Well, that's not what I asked. I asked whether it is a requirement for them to meet the targets and whether there will be a sanction if they do not meet those targets. That is what the question is all about. Because you can easily ask the company to set a target number, fine, and then they write it on, but shouldn't there be any sanctions? And that is why I am asking: will the Radical Left impose sanctions behind it? Is that a fine? Is that a small deduction, or what is that? And if there is not enough to recruit for those posts and then you get some who are not qualified, can companies also get a deduction because they get bad results due to the restrictions that come in here from the Folketing? So the question is, will that be a requirement? Will it be forced, or what will it do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002058	That is not how it is conceived by the Radical Left. We would like companies to set target figures, to draw up policies on how they will approach these target figures and, when they approach them or achieve them, to set up follow-up targets. What we believe can bring companies closer to a gender balance in the senior management battles is also that there is a public awareness, that is, that there is an insight into what these targets are and what is really going on with equality in individual companies. But no, we haven't been planning a fine and that kind of sanctioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002132	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002135	Thank you very much. I really want to continue where Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen escaped. If it is the case that it will be a bill from here, that it should be a requirement, what will the sanction be by not complying with that requirement? Well, there has to be, because otherwise it is voluntary and if there are no sanctions, what would that change? So I would really like to hear when it is said that it is a requirement for companies to set their targets: what happens if they do not? What will the sanction be?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002213	However, as I have just replied to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, it is a proposal from the Radical Left that companies should be required, a requirement, an obligation, to set targets for the underrepresented sex in the senior management classes and also to formulate policies on how to achieve it. However, fines and sanctions are not in fact there yet. We would rather go this way, where companies set targets and where there is also openness in these targets, so that young people or anyone else who is going to the labour market can actually choose those companies where diversity, diversity and equality are the priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002257	Thank you. Then there is a brief remark from Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002303	Thank you. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur could not clarify whether it is not the case in the legislation today that it is a requirement for companies to set target figures and that there are no sanctions if we do not do so, that we should set targets and have policies to meet these targets, but that we should not be penalised if we do not meet the requirements and that the proposal, which comes from both our parties, is that we should have these targets published.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002328	Yeah, that's right. And in addition to the need for publicity in the target figures and policies, we also want the Radical Left to set out the follow-up target figures, which were one thing the previous government abolished, as I remember it, i.e. the follow-up targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002348	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002350	We in the SF think that is also very sensible. It was actually just to clarify it, because there was a little misunderstanding as to whether it was a requirement now. And that is a demand today, and you will not be sanctioned if you do not meet the demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002402	There are many misunderstandings in such a debate • some sought misunderstandings. In the past, something was also said about some jealous feminists. But this is really about equality in companies; it is about their economic bottom line. It certainly does for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002421	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the radical rapporteur. We move on to the Conservative rapporteur. Mrs. Birgitte Bergman, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002439	Thank you. Tonight we are discussing the equality of women in managements and boards. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for addressing this issue. Let me be clear: I would like to see more women in board and management positions. But let me also make it clear that I believe that we are far from agreeing on the means of achieving this. Because, yes, there are challenges; we see that, among other things. with the young female entrepreneurs. Just 8%. of new companies were started by women under 35 years of age, while 27 per cent of new companies started by women under 35 years of age. was started by men in the same age group. That is why we also tabled a motion for a resolution on a maternity scheme for self-employed workers, which was not intended to give the self-employed additional administrative costs. The government's model became the expensive solution, whereby, as a self-employed person, you have to pay to the Barsel Foundation instead of finding the funds in the room. Indeed, we want to create better economic conditions for maternity and hope that more young women can start their own business without coercion and quotas. The way to achieve this is to ensure the framework for equal opportunities and not gender. However, we cannot disagree with the rapporteur that equality is a fundamental Danish value that we must safeguard and fight for. However, I am not one of those who believe that women bring some very special women's skills. But I believe that diversity in management is important and that it creates better results when hiring with different educations, experiences and profiles and working together. Therefore, it is also important that there is a focus on qualifications and not gender. For this reason, we are also in favour of the possibility of posting job positions in government management and boards, which is a relevant alternative to quotas on board boards. It is not conservative politics to interfere in business employment, but if, by creating transparency in posted positions and thus attracting more suitable candidates, I can see the obvious benefits. This will benefit both women and men and thus ensure that the company has more suitable candidates to choose from. First of all, it's about getting all the talents into play. Everything else could equally increase competitiveness while at the same time giving more people the opportunity to make a career, but it must be the business owners themselves who must be able to choose between candidates. Quotas are certainly not the answer. It's about basic incentives, and we can easily leave that incentive to the company itself. I have great faith in that. I may be concerned that the government will follow up the law, which obliges some companies to make targets and policies that improve the gender distribution in management. We believe that we should be careful not to think that legislation can change a lot. It is obvious that companies have to look inwards and see if they have a male club in practice on the management hall where women cannot access. This has been the case historically, and I wonder if it is a little different in some places. However, the main barrier for women in management is, as we see it, that there is still a underweight of women with the relevant competences and career desires in relation to management. There is talk of women being better educated. It may be that the average education is longer, but 6 years of training as a doctor is not so relevant if an economist or a civil engineer is to be used, which is often the profile of management. There is still a predominance of men in those courses where managers typically come from, although there are trends for a more balanced distribution. Right now, we are in a historic crisis with corona, and that is why I do not believe that the time has come to impose additional burdens and bureaucracy on our businesses. We would like to enter into further discussions on initiating initiatives to promote the food chain for women's boards and management, including looking at the gender-based education system and the labour market. The Conservative People's Party supports the text adopted by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002844	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. So if the rapporteur would like to prepare for the next rapporteur who is on the verge of jumping, I would like to say a word to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317002904	Then we are faced with another deeply missed debate on equal pay and equality between men and women, and it is a little past midnight on a Tuesday, and I am still tired of the whining of feminists forever. They're so self-absorbed with this self-appointed sacrificial role of emotion that is constantly being exchanged for facts to fit into their failed world picture. Now, let me use a little number to talk about one of these myths that works out there, that's the 14 per cent or 14 per cent myth. in the pay gap between men and women, whom the Left and the newly-modern concrete feminists love to use as an argument to promote their totally absurd agenda that we men and the system have merged into some obscure patriarchal sculpture cult, which just hates women, and which struggles to keep them down by discrimination against them on gender. Yeah, yeah, yeah, but let's take a look at the 14 percent. For the vast majority of the 14 percent. can actually be documented empirically and there is a natural explanation for it. I know it doesn't suit the feminists, but it actually does. If, for example, we are going to do something like this... It is the case that men have traditionally taken training courses which point to higher paid jobs, and this also has an impact on the industries in which they work. Therein lies some of the explanation. In addition, you can look at the work function. Men seek positions with more responsibility and leadership and thereby a higher salary. We can do that, for example. Look at educators. There are not very many male educators, but many of them seek management positions in the teaching profession. Finally, there is the element called sectors. Women are looking more towards what they call job cells, where there are many people in each job cell and where there will be lower wages due to demand and supply. And in this way, actually, approx. 85% of the 14.4%, as it is, to be precise, is explained, and it has absolutely nothing to do with structural discrimination or discrimination against women. So forward-looking, the left and the feminists can no longer tour around with these famous 14 per cent without the Danes out there knowing and fully aware that this is some plump nonsense. But that leaves 2% behind, and does this mean that we now have to listen to the whimpering of the neo-feminists around the 2%, that is to say it must be an expression of discrimination? Yeah, I guess we won't have to listen to their whining. But no, they're 2%. Nor is it an expression of discrimination or discrimination. It just cannot be documented in the same way, but there are a number of factors that can also explain the last 2%. Here, for example: It should be noted that the families prefer more women to go more home with children, that families choose to take part-time jobs, and that they do not have the same career as men, that men often have jobs with increased risk premiums, or that men are more often working overtime. So there are also a large number of factors that can explain the last 2%. And now that we have the facts in place, the real purpose of the feminists reveals itself. Because it is really not taking a debate on equal pay, no, it is short and cash to ask all of us to move aside so that they can get what they are pointing to, while, with the greatest of course, trying to make everyone else feel guilty that we are not just giving them what they are pointing to. But for that there's just to say, it's just too bad, Sonny Boy, but that time is over. We no longer roll around like a little wet, washed-up puppy on all fours, and to those in here in the Folketing who believe that equality can be created and that equal rights and equal opportunities can be created by dictating equality in output, I just have to say: you are so horribly wrong, and you show that it is not about equality. Because in Denmark we are one of the most free countries where people can choose the education they want, and it turns out that they choose according to interest, and therefore you can never have equality in output. You can't have equality in input and equality in output. But that is the balance that we are desperately trying to find in here when we talk about quotas and say 'no', but we must not force them anyway and target them and say 'no', but we must not force them anyway because we are looking for the things that can create equality in output. But we cannot achieve equality in output if we do not, at the same time, demand and insist that there should be equality in input, and we can only achieve that with compulsion and with the requirement that people should choose certain courses and choose certain jobs. Otherwise people will choose according to their interests, and men and women are not the same, and they will not choose the same, no matter what the feminists are trying to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317003407	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then we have reached the rapporteur's line, which means that it is now the Minister's turn. I can see that it is first the Minister for Equal Opportunities who has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317003431	Thank you. I had actually agreed with the Minister for Business that I should just round off, but I don't know if that's after the protocol. I'll try to be brief. I think we've been around a lot. I think it has been a really, very interesting and also very constructive question debate. So thank you for that and thank you for the good input that has come along the way. As was also said in the opening speech, the government will take the comments of the rapporteurs and the parties with us in the further work towards being able to put forward legislative proposals in the next Assembly and we will call for discussions on the concrete measures this summer. We look forward to that very much. We have also noted that there is a majority of parties in the Folketing that support the need to strengthen the rules and make real progress on gender balance in both private and public boards. I hope it is clear that we in the government fully agree that there is a need to support the inclusion of more women in management and boards. Because there really must be equal opportunities for everyone in the Danish labour market, and it is also socio-economically sensible. Thank you for the floor and thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317003555	Thank you. There is a brief comment. No, there is no brief comment anyway. Thank you to the Minister for Gender Equality, who spoke on behalf of the government, that is. Both ministers. It's okay, of course. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 23 March 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317003622	The debate is open. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Orla Sea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317003641	Thank you. I don't want to hide the fact that I've been waiting a lot for this time to come. We are debating L 191, draft law on screening of certain foreign direct investment, etc. in Denmark. It should be logical that it is a noble aim to prevent foreign investment and special economic agreements from constituting a risk and a threat to national security or public order in Denmark. Unfortunately, we were close to pushing this for society so vital overall issues aside for the sake of the free play of market forces. For social democracy, the market and market forces are sensible tools in the drive to create welfare and development in society, but there are overarching considerations. National security and public order are obvious examples, but others may be mentioned in other contexts. Fortunately, this did not happen when the American supermarket-oriented president tried to buy Greenland. Both the people of Greenland and the Danish people, with their governments and parliaments in the lead, clearly stated that trafficking in human beings is over, just as disregarding a long common history of close friendship is. Bill L 191 is based on a combination of a statutory licensing system for particularly sensitive sectors, namely defence, dual use, IT security, critical infrastructure and critical technology, and a voluntary notification system for the other sectors. This implies flexibility and an opportunity for companies to play in the design of assessments and rules. In addition to the screening of foreign direct investment by acquisition of ownership, etc. in Danish companies, including investments in the creation of new companies, the law also includes screening of special economic agreements, joint ventures as well as service, operation and supply agreements under both the licensing and application arrangements. For the Social Democratic Party this seems quite reasonable and quite in line with the intention of the bill. It goes without saying that when the authorities go so close to the internal life of companies, there is a risk of harming this if the general principles of public access to documents and public access to the administration are applied to this issue. That is why it is contained in L 191 that the announcement will ensure companies that what I call manufacturing secrets is exposed unintentionally and to the detriment of business and companies. All in all, we think this is a sensible legislative proposal, which fortunately follows the trend of European cooperation, where other countries introduce similar rules to protect their critical infrastructure. Social democracy supports L 191.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317004005	Thank you. There is just one brief comment to be made to the Social Democrat rapporteur from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317004008	Thank you. Although it is now 20 minutes in one, there was hardly an eye dry when the Socialist rapporteur tried to draw a picture that the whole idea of a screening system was based on the fact that the Social Democrats wanted it in the fight against the common capitalists and everything else. Would the Socialist rapporteur not just confirm the facts, namely paragraph 1: that it was the then Blue Government that started that working group years ago, which has resulted in us now having a legislative proposal? And point 2: will the rapporteur not confirm that among other things: Left, among others. on behalf of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317004054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317004056	Well, I have no problem confirming that, because the clear example of something that was just about to happen is that Huawei was being allowed to place all their hardware in the very central IT transformation system in Denmark. I guess it was a wakeup call that even the bourgeois government had to respond to. So I have no problem confirming it, and I can just say that there will be more joy in heaven over one single sinner who repents than a thousand righteous ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317004130	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317004132	But that is where the Socialist rapporteur fails a little. Because one thing is that you obviously want to acknowledge the facts that is already the first step, but the second step is to try not to turn this into a red or a blue agenda. This is an agenda for Denmark. And that is why it is also the case that there is broad support in Parliament and that we actually want it here, not least in view of the fact that it is an EU regulation. So trying to draw this up to be some social democratic victory, I have to admit, is very far away, not only from what is normal practice in terms of broad agreements, but also far away from reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317004203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317004204	I think it is a very good thing that the reality is that this is a recognition of the fact that there are greater concerns than market forces. And so I am delighted that there is a broad perception of • and that we agree that there are concerns about Denmark's safety and other things that are greater than the market. And that I then describe it with my approach to it may not be surprising, and I am certainly not outraged that others would like to be involved in adopting a sensible legislative proposal. So welcome to the club.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317004235	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317004253	Thank you. It is a pity, I say a little too bad, that it seems that somewhere you have chosen to give priority to the agenda items, which you have now chosen to give priority to them. It is certainly not important that we are now discussing this last time, both for the sake of the whole discussion about this, which is therefore about security policy for Denmark, but also in relation to the fact that this is something on which we have had a great many meetings, including with the Minister, and we have discussed it in a large number of other contexts, and not least in the area of foreign policy mention for several years, which is why it is a little sad that we are now here at 3 p.m. 00:45 a.m. will discuss it in the Assembly Hall. But okay, there's probably some wise person somewhere who's made the extremely reasonable priority. However, back to the point, because the fact is that we on the Left, as I also mentioned in the question to the Socialist rapporteur, are very pleased that the then Blue Government has started this committee work to look at how we can shield ourselves from the critical infrastructure. If you also look at how and how we in the Blue Government also took up the fight to ensure not only critical infrastructure in general, but especially the vital critical infrastructure, both via the Centre for Cybersecurity and other good agencies, this is of course also very good in line with the work we ourselves did. Therefore, our approach to all of this has also been that we have been very positive about having a screening scheme, but at the same time it has also been important for us that when we say, on the one hand, that Denmark must be protected in the best possible way against the interests of large and other nations in trying to influence Danish interests in one way or another, we must of course also ensure that there is a balance in madness, understood in the sense that we must ensure that Danish companies in general can still have foreign investment and absolutely no more burdens placed on them than absolutely necessary. It is, of course, a work that we have also spent some time on, and I would like to commend the Minister for Business for his positive approach to cooperation. That is why I can also say, without weary Parliament for too much time, that we are pleased that we have reached an agreement, understood in the sense that, by voting in favour, one becomes a so-called contracting party and can therefore also participate in the actual process, we must say the technical execution in relation to notices and the like. We very much welcome this in the Left, and we can therefore also state our intention to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317004549	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments, so we are preparing for the next rapporteur, who is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317004609	Then we stand here in the middle of the night and have to legalise something that is very fundamental, and something that is important for Denmark and Danish interests and indeed also, as the rapporteur has just mentioned, important for the Danish security policy in relation to foreign and foreign stakeholders who report their arrival in Denmark. It should be the case here in the Folketing that the legislative proposals which are of the greatest importance should be dealt with first on the agenda. This means that this bill should have been put on and treated like this around 8:00 a.m. 15 here yesterday afternoon. Now let's do it this night until Wednesday instead. But that should not change the fact that, of course, we in the Danish People's Party are going to announce that we can of course also support the bill tabled by the government. After all, it is a legislative proposal which is based on a number of meetings, as was also clarified in the past, since, after all, there has also been an interest in involving a wide range of parliamentary parties in the implementation of this part, which is based almost on a regulation on the coordination of national investment screenings, which came into force in October last year in the European Union. As the Social Democrats' rapporteur also said, this is a legislative proposal which specifically ensures the implementation of a Danish screening scheme, and it also allows foreign investment and economic agreements to be examined, as well as the possibility of intervening, of laying down conditions or of banning an agreement that has been concluded and of calling for it to be phased out. These are, of course, far-reaching things, but they are things that will be applied if they prove necessary. And we must hope, of course, that it will not be very often that it will be necessary to take such drastic action as it is. If you look at the bill itself, it is drastic powers that lie in it, in terms of being able to go in and correct with private companies, cross-border trade, etc. A statutory licensing system is necessary, says Dansk Folkeparti. These are mainly, as has also been clarified in the comments to the draft law, particularly sensitive sectors of defence, dual use, IT security, critical infrastructure and so also critical technology, which for that matter also has something to do with dual use. We have also noted in the Danish People's Party that the bill, or at least in the Minister's written address, says that it is proposed to do so by rules laid down by decree and that companies, business organisations, etc. will also be involved. But the Minister's speech does not say that the parties of the Folketing will be involved. We knew so well that, after all, we would, in fact, have had negotiations on this with the Minister, but we have also received a note here today, or rather yesterday, on 16 March, when it is also made clear by the Minister for Industry that it is natural for the parties supporting the bill to be included in the coinage. It will also be an expected requirement for Dansk Folkeparti to support the bill. But the Minister has also made it clear that this is the way in which the work will be carried out. So the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317004959	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317005025	Thank you for the floor. Denmark is a small economy, but in many cases we benefit from foreign investment. However, it is also quite obvious that a number of sectors, including utilities and IT companies, are sensitive. And it is crucial that we have a good idea of which companies and ultimately what ownership interests can be at stake in an investment. After all, the EU rules provide precisely the framework for a screening scheme such as this, so investors will not really be surprised that we also need to be approved in Denmark. The draft law covers both actual investment but also specific economic agreements. We see this as the right approach, as the influence and access to knowledge in sensitive sectors is not only through investment. It is therefore also sensible to consider both the type of asset in Denmark, i.e. whether it is sensitive and what type of investor we are talking about. The process must, of course, be as flexible as possible, and Denmark must continue to be able to attract important foreign investment. We must not only compete at tax rates but also excel at the fact that we have a good business climate and a limited bureaucracy compared to many other countries. And, of course, control must also be done with proportionality. It is not the intention to buy a bakery through a long-term approval, even if the bakery master had to think that he is sitting on a secret recipe for pretzel and pie it was a little joke, which I also hoped would work in the middle of the night. I can see that the Minister is laughing with me now. I am very happy about that! Back to the bill. A model which is also referred to as option 2 is chosen by the bill. In the SF we have understood this as the intermediate model. In other words, it is not the most intrusive, but it is not the least intrusive either. And it is obvious that much will depend on how it is administered in practice. And the law applies a number of general concepts, such as: national security, and in this light, perhaps we should consider whether an evaluation of the functioning of the agreement should be carried out and should work after a number of years. We will be asking a number of questions during the committee's deliberations on, among other things: investment in real estate, and we are also interested in the conditions of the foreign investor that will be taken into account. For example, would it also be included in the assessment if the investor had previously participated in aggressive tax planning or contributed to outright tax fraud? If it is not taken into account, SF will, of course, pursue the important matter in a different context. However, it is important to know whether it is likely that an investor also intends to pay the right tax in Denmark. Finally, the draft law also affects critical infrastructure, and it is also important for SF how the definition of critical infrastructure is going to be and the process around it. Overall, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317005343	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317005400	Thank you. Enhedslisten supports this proposal. We find it encouraging that the European Union has taken action and that national policy is being followed up, as have several of our neighbouring countries. The market should not allow aggressive investment incentives and other economic activities of foreign states to be allowed into sensitive technology, society-lack businesses and critical infrastructure. In the draft law it is very much angled in such a way that it is about national security and public order. These are very broad categories, but nevertheless important. We are equally concerned here with security of supply, food security and democratic control of critical economic sectors and supply chains. Of course, the free market must not undermine the security and security of the majority. That insight can spread like rings in the water. That is why we are also very interested in the work involved in defining critical infrastructure and failing economic sectors. That definition is not only relevant in this context, but also when it comes to the unfortunate tendency of the past many years to sell out of the Community's values. Finally, I have to say, not least for the sake of history, that the legal work of the European Union and the government and the previous government in this area reveals an important insight that many developing countries could have taught us in the past half century. For decades, the Western world has had exactly the same aggressive investment strategy vis-à-vis the developing countries, from which we ourselves today find ourselves obliged to protect ourselves, and this is a striking development. Some might say that history smiles at us. For decades, as a condition for aid and development loans, the poor and newly decolonised developing countries have had to open their economies to foreign investment in their critical infrastructure and natural resources, and the richest industrialised economies have all developed by means of various protectionist rules that have protected their industries from foreign competitors. This applies to England, to the United States, and to many parts of the Western world. But we have not allowed the global South to do so. Instead, the ladder has been kicked under their feet and developed a one-sided dependency relationship on which the West and rich elites in the countries concerned have profited, while the majority and developments have lagged. I hope that this new insight will also affect the future attitude towards the needs of poor countries to protect themselves from foreign capital. We are voting in favour of the proposal and we support the fact that there will be an evaluation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317005704	There is just one brief comment. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317005706	Yes, because we are going a long way, and I am only happy to have a foreign policy debate here at just one o'clock. I must admit that I do not entirely agree with what Enhedslisten says that the conditions in the poor countries, and in Africa in particular, should be the fault of the West. If you go in and look at how and what the situation is in the different countries of Africa, there are two major reasons why they are not making greater economic progress. One is that China, in particular, has gone in and bought up underground and has got big investments going, but is doing so with Chinese labour, and that in addition, through bribery, corruption and other things in general, they have made sure not to pay taxes in the countries concerned. That's one thing. The second point is that the countries concerned are not open. So there is no trade between the various African countries. So does the Enhedslisten not agree that if real free trade were actually to come on good terms, it would actually be a step forward in relation to the African countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317005802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317005805	Indeed, I very much agree that if there is good trade on good terms, then it will be able to bring very much good with it. I also think that the rapporteur's comment on how China behaves in this area is very relevant. It is not something that makes the problem any less, and I think it is an important nuance to point it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317005825	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317005841	Thank you for the floor. Denmark needs foreign investment • foreign capital, which benefits Danish companies and jobs and thus the common fund, rather than investing the same funds in other countries. Therefore, a good investment climate with good conditions is important. It must be attractive for investors to come to Denmark and not only because of the financial part, but indeed also because of the knowledge and technology that foreign investment often brings with it, and because it often means new ideas, new business models, new workflows, organisation, innovation and development. This all helps to increase productivity and thus competitiveness. If it were up to me, we would lower corporation tax and tax on returns and remove taxes and administrative burdens and provide certainty about future rules. It would boost Danish economy and Danish jobs. Unfortunately, that is not why we are here in the Chamber that I had actually written today, but must say here tonight. We are because there is foreign investment that we do not want. For there are some who may pose a threat to national security and so-called public order in Denmark. Unfortunately, we need to focus on this. An EU regulation has entered into force and several countries have already been in the process of introducing national screenings of foreign investment. That is why the government believes that we also need to make it possible to examine whether foreign investment poses a security threat, even though I really have not received a real answer as to whether we have a problem and, if so, how large the volume is. The draft law provides, on the one hand, a statutory licensing system for what can be called particularly sensitive sectors such as defence, dual use, IT security, critical infrastructure and critical technology, and, on the other hand, a voluntary notification system for all other sectors and a notification system only for third countries. There is a great deal of work ahead of us in the area of announcements, which must define the sensitive sectors mentioned, set up new businesses and special economic agreements. It is a job in which business must be involved, because it is important that there is a balance between attracting foreign investment on the one hand and ensuring that we can reject investments that can pose a threat to nobody mentioned, no one forgotten. Nor do I want to go into the depths of the discussions we have already had, fortunately across parties and with the government and with business. I would just like to say that Conservatives do not necessarily believe that the cut is quite right, but that we can accept what has been presented with the changes we have helped to ensure. We look forward to the continued work on the bill and will pay particular attention to the demarcation of dual use companies. We do not need all companies that make dual use products or use critical technologies to be included in the mandatory sector-specific scheme. Because this will actually mean that a very wide range of Danish companies will be covered by this scheme. Anyone who produces dual use products as civil equipment that can be used for example. the military, e.g. lathes, advanced measuring equipment and ball bearings and such, or uses critical technology such as: artificial intelligence, robotics, energy storage, nanotechnology and biotechnology will be included even if they have only components. Therefore, it is absolutely essential to set a turnover limit so that we focus the screenings on those companies that have dual use products and critical technologies as a key part of their business base, for example. companies producing advanced measuring equipment, radar solutions and robotic technologies. I think it is very exciting and I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they also support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317010233	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317010244	Thank you. I feel obliged to say to the SF rapporteur that we are not generally as boring as business rapporteurs. But it's late, and I'm sorry we didn't catch it quite so fast. Now I'm not gonna try a joke myself now. It would be infinitely embarrassing if it didn't get good. Then it collapses completely. No, I can't help it. There is a parliamentary politician who is being taken to drive too fast. Then he goes to court, and he immediately stands with his good speech skills and says: Yes, it may be, sir. Judge, I've been driving a little too fast, but I'm a politician. And the judge stops him immediately and says: "Well, ignorance is not an excuse. Thank you, Minister. Yeah, it was cute, wasn't it? To the bill: It's a very, very technical bill. There are good elements in it. We haven't been as close inside as any of the other parties. We have a few concerns about some of the issues that business has raised, so we will be asking a few questions in committee. But we also expect that we will be able to vote in favour of the proposal when we come to the end of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317010355	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then we have gone through all the rapporteurs and reached the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317010409	Somewhere I'm glad we have the late time to lean on this with a sense of humor and understanding of jokes. We can tell each other that if it had been earlier in the day, we would all have laughed loudly because we would have understood the jokes. In reality, however, we are working on a rather large, fundamental and important legislative proposal right here, and several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned this. And if I am just going to try to present it a little, as many of my colleagues have already done, one can say that the whole of the basic purpose of the bill here is to prevent foreign direct investment and special economic agreements from constituting a threat to national security or public order in Denmark. Both inside and outside the European Union, the security challenges associated with certain foreign direct investment have increased in recent years. There are a number of comparable countries that have already introduced or are in the process of introducing national screening of foreign investment. In the European Union, a regulation on the coordination of national investment screening schemes came into force in October last year, and it is therefore proposed that what we have here, that is to say, a Danish investment screening scheme, should enable foreign investment and special economic agreements to be examined and, of course, be able to intervene either by laying down detailed conditions for the investment or the agreement, or by effectively banning it or imposing the specific agreement if it poses a security threat to Denmark. In the draft law, the scheme is designed as a combination of a statutory licensing scheme for particularly sensitive sectors; it is sectors such as defence, dual use, IT security, critical infrastructure and critical technology; and then a voluntary notification scheme for the other sectors. For investments covered by the voluntary scheme but not notified, it is proposed that the Danish Business Authority may go back five years and investigate and possibly intervene against the investment. The scheme introduces a screening of foreign direct investment in the acquisition of ownership, etc. in Danish companies, including investments through the creation of new companies. The law also includes screening of special economic agreements, and these may be joint ventures or service, operating and supply agreements under both the authorisation and notification arrangements. Finally, it is proposed to evaluate the law and begin its evaluation in 2023 in order to take account of the experience gained with the scheme and also the development of the other countries' screening schemes. It is considered that the scheme will be balanced in maintaining a continued favourable investment climate while ensuring a high level of safety. And I would like to stress that the main objective of the Investment Screening Act is to prevent certain foreign direct investment and special economic agreements from endangering national security and public order in Denmark, and at the same time to do so in a way so that Denmark can continue to be an attractive investment country. Before I conclude here, I should just like to confirm to the rapporteurs who have mentioned that the government is proposing that, in the circle of the parties behind this bill, there will then be discussions of an effective nature when we have to look at areas of demarcation and the various things that have been brought up. So it's just to confirm that what has been raised by others is also how we're going to deal with it. In those words, I thank you for the floor here and look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317010812	Thank you. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317010825	Thank you. I'll be brief. I just want to hear from the Minister whether he is thinking that an evaluation of this scheme could be carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317010835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317010836	It makes good sense to evaluate the system, not least because it is as fundamental as it is, and I also think that we will continue to talk to organisations in this area about how the whole application of the system takes place. But the actual evaluation we are thinking of starting in 2023. Then we have had experience with the scheme at home in Denmark, and then we also have other countries' experiences to be able to lean on in this context. So there's definitely an evaluation to be made when you make such a big arrangement as this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317010906	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317010908	A lot of things can happen in 2023. How does the Minister think that, regardless of the majority in 2023, etc., we will ensure that there will be that evaluation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317010923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317010925	Thank you, President. Now I am listening to the fact that there is a fairly broad political majority, so unless everything is blown up into atoms and completely new parties arise and take over the Folketing, then I believe that what we are adopting here is also what will apply in 2023. In addition, of course, the current government also intends to seek re-election in a forthcoming parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317010953	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317011007	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today, Wednesday 17 March 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
