ParlaMint-DK_20210202165153	The meeting is open. I have to say, because there are quite a lot of people in the Chamber, that there will be no vote until the next round. It's just that people are aware of it. We're gonna have to be careful. There are many people sitting in the Chamber and there will be no vote now, I just want to say. The next sitting will be voting and not now. And it's gonna be called back in. Today there are the following reviews: Mette Hjermind Dencker (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 136 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the Consumer Agreement Act). Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Peter Skaarup (DF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 137 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution repealing the law on the demolition and sale of general housing and abolishing the so-called 'ghettolists' (citizens' motion)) and motion for a resolution No. B 139 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on moving the disability area away from the municipalities (Citizen's Proposal)). Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Peter Skaarup (DF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 138 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a good conclusion to the Third Amendment (Citizen's Proposal)). Torst Schack Pedersen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 140 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a uniform economic level for selfemployed persons and employees in relation to compensation schemes for covid-19). Martin Geertsen (V) et al.: Haste query no. F 40 (Will the Minister take the initiative in drawing up a plan for the reopening of Denmark based on the recommendations of the occupational reference group, including in relation to education, professional professions, retail trade, etc??). With the agreement of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 140 is referred directly to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210202165454	The items listed as No. 1, 2, 3 and 4 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202165505	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202165533	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of NB)? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of NB)? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 6 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 7 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 8 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB) on Amendment No 9. 10, adopted by a majority (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, Jens Rohde (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) or on Amendment No 10, adopted by a majority (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, Jens Rohde (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)). 11 and 12, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202165753	Amendments have been tabled. I can see that, sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti, would like to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202165817	Thank you for that, President. As far as this bill is concerned, there is no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party of course want foreign labour to be tested. No one should doubt that we in the Danish People's Party want them to be tested negative before they come to Denmark. We should not have anyone who enters the labour market with infection. Nor should there be any doubt that the Danish People's Party wanted foreign workers to be tested negative in Nor should there be any doubt that we think it is too long for them to go in a job on a construction site or in a company before they need a PC test. When we negotiated with the Minister of Employment to do this effort for the covid-19 test of foreign labour, we talked about the fact that they had to have a negative test before they came to Denmark and that after that they had to go to maximum. 72 hours before they needed a PCr test. There it was the clear wish of the Danish People's Party that they should be tested as soon as they crossed the border, i.e. that they should have tests in Denmark before entering the workplace. We also wanted the PC test to have been taken before entering a workplace in Denmark. There was no real mood for this, and there were some compromises as to how and how it should be. That is also the reason why we support the Enhedslisten in the amendments they have tabled concerning the testing of foreign labour. Having said that, I would like to say that it was 14 days ago, last Monday, but then we hear God help me, no, I must not apologize to you, then we hear that an agreement has suddenly been reached over by the Minister of Justice on testing foreign labour, that is to say, an agreement that has an impact on access to labour to Denmark and that states that you must first be tested, to the maximum. 24 hours after you arrive in Denmark; then you have to have a quick test, and then you have to take 96 hours, from being tested abroad until you are at work. In that time they can go and bring the infection around. Then it may be that they have to go into isolation in their spare time, but at work they can go and infect each other, because there is the uncertainty of a quick test that it only gives 70%. security. So in that time, you can walk and work at a workplace and help to bring the disease around to your colleagues. You can also get infected in that time, in case someone else is carrying it around. But there is such a mishmash in the government where the Minister of Justice does not even question what we are doing in the field of employment. Apparently, the Minister for Employment has not been involved in this. It's been run on its own by the Minister of Justice, because you just have to get this through. I am not blaming the rapporteurs who have been involved in the negotiations over there, because you two ministers should know what each other is doing in this regard, that is, when there is such a thing as this. Even when we were at it the week before, I am convinced that the Minister for Justice was and therefore it was also surprising for me to know that the Minister for Employment was not involved in this game. It's just been rolled all over the place. Internally within the government, it has the effect that the Minister for Justice has beaten the Minister for Employment, but we as labour market rapporteurs, as employment rapporteurs, are not told until an agreement has been reached. And I do not want to blame the rapporteurs from the various parties who have been involved in the negotiations, because, at least, this is something we are doing in the field of employment, and then another minister should not go in and do something that trumps what is happening in the field of employment. Because this meant that the negotiations we were going through, where we would like them to cross the border, would have to have an antigen test before they could get into the workplace, were locked down; we could not get that through, because the law of the Minister of Justice overtook the law of the Minister of Employment in this game. That is what makes it possible to get really tired of the way it is going on, i.e. to find out that the government does not even talk about what is going on. Because if the Minister for Employment had now been told in good time and during the negotiations we had with the Minister for Employment, then there would have been a chance that we could have corrected it and talked about it. But no, no, you don't; you just keep driving. That is why it is some juks that have been made in this connection, and it is simply not good enough. We must acknowledge this in the Danish People's Party, that is to say that we do not think it is good enough. It is a fine law that has been made in the Ministry of Justice's area, but one should not have done anything that suddenly also applied to employment when we were in the process of drafting legislation on the covid-19 test of foreign labour. We should have stayed away from this; we could have done everything else and then left the Minister for Employment to put this legislation in place. I guess I got rid of some bile. Then there are the amendments that have been tabled. Sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten has formulated some excellent amendments to which we can support most of the amendments we are voting yellow on. One of the amendments tabled by Christian Juhl was that we could have people tested at the border when they come in. Then there is the amendment by the Left, Radicals, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, which wants the state to pay employers for testing foreign labour. If we had now listened to what was proposed at the beginning, we would have had the quicktest that had been done when they had crossed the border, and it had then paid the state. Now you go in and say that it is the employers who have to make sure that they get it and then they have to be tested. This also applies to arms and leg companies, i.e. those that run around the whole country and that we also have to control. They must also be tested, and I have my doubts as to whether there is enough control. But it is then left to the employers. They themselves have asked that there should be legislation requiring them to test. But if you were to help employers with this, the help should be that people had to be tested before entering the workplace. That's what's most important. This amendment then applies to foreign labour. Danes working in the same factory, company, construction site, or whatever it is, must make sure that they are tested themselves; they must drive and be tested themselves, but the proposers of this amendment want employers to be paid for the foreign labour force to be tested and that they must have wage compensation because they have to spend time being tested. Well, I promise you, my neighbor, who is a carpenter, will certainly spend time driving and being tested, but he won't get paid for it. He must do so in his spare time; it is not the employer who pays. But here the employer must make sure that the foreign labour force is paid. It seems as if it is because you have to bring in a lot of foreign labour for cheap money, but we have plenty of unemployed people who are unemployed because of corona right now, so you could hire some of the unemployed people who are walking around to take those jobs instead of picking up foreign labour, but you don't. You just drive away and say that employers must have a lot of labour and that the state must, of course, compensate employers and pay for the fact that from day one they are allowed to bring in labour, even if it has not been checked whether they are healthy or not, or whether they can bring in infection. This is just not how we work in the Danish People's Party, and therefore, although this legislation has been made in the field of justice and in the field of the Minister of Employment, we cannot support that amendment. It must be the case that they have the same conditions as Danish workers, which means that foreigners who come to Denmark to work have to make sure that they themselves are tested.They themselves must make sure that they have a quick test or a PCr test and either pay for it themselves or get a test where it is free; there are many places where you can get free tests. However, we must not compensate employers for the fact that this should be done during working hours. They must do so in their spare time, just as the Danes must do. That is where it breaks against me and the Danish People's Party, which is why we cannot support this amendment. But we support this bill because, after all, it is better than nothing, but it could have been better if there had been a hearing and if there had been a little more charity. When I see this amendment from the Left, Radical, Conservative and Liberal Alliance, I can better understand why they did not listen to my arguments that people should be tested before entering the workplace. After all, it is to get labour quickly to the employers. You ignore health and say that it doesn't matter that they haven't been tested yet, because they probably will after 96 hours since they have been tested in their home country. We simply cannot support such an amendment in the Danish People's Party. But, as I said, we support this bill. It's better than nothing, but it could have been much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202170829	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. Then Mr. Enhedslisten's rapporteur... Christian Juhl asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202170838	Thank you. Now I do not know if it was true that we have to negotiate with the President about how much speaking time we have, but I assume that the clock is ticking, so that I have ten minutes. It's a good thing we had these things discussed. I've been talking about it since last summer, that the workplace is an overlooked source of infection. When, during the course of the negotiations, the Minister says that this is not what it is all about, but it is a question of giving the employer a duty to ensure that tests are carried out, it is only a small corner that we will get hold of. Therefore, I would like to say that the good thing about this is that, contrary to the housing process in the previous proposal, we have actually had a hearing where LO and FH were asked. Afterwards, we had a larger hearing where a wider group of organisations were consulted. It wouldn't have happened if we hadn't insisted on it. It is a pity, and I think that the Minister should consider whether we could not agree that, whether it is urgent legislation or ordinary legislation, we are doing so by asking for consultations with the interested parties. I recognise that both the Minister and the Ministry have a very, very great intellectual capacity, but I must promise that we have received reports which so much change the view of some of the things. This is what we do here every time, so we get smart people out of real life to help us act in such a situation, and so must we when we urgently legislate. Once we have to evaluate after the corona, I will guarantee that we have really, very sloppy legislation lying around, which could have been much, much better if we had asked people. It doesn't have to take extra time if you're planning it. Well, I guess so, sir. Minister, we must try it in the future as a permanent procedure instead of having to fight about it just when we are about to get started. Then I would say that it has been a bad weekend because the Minister wrote to me that he refused to give help in formulating legally how three amendments were to be made. He thought that my proposals were far-reaching, and you can judge that for yourself in the near future when I examine them. However, this is something I have never experienced before • never Well, I am not beginning to talk about socialism, revolution or anything else to the Minister; I ask him to make sure that our amendments are formulated in close association with what we are doing. That's why it was a sad experience, sir. Minister. I hope we won't ever see that again. Fortunately, it has ended up with the Ministry formulating them, and you can see for yourself in the annexes what it was about. In my opinion, this is about reducing the infection in the workplace. That's what we have to do. If the Minister will then only focus on the testing of entry labour, it is too small in my view, and it does not take into account the problems we really have in the workplace in relation to corona. There will still be a huge risk of people becoming infected after the adoption of this bill. That is why we have tabled five amendments, and the first is that there should be no rubber band in which the Minister says: what do I think it should be 72 or 96 hours or how long should it be? If there is to be something there must be a precise indication of the latest time of the PCr test. And that is what the Minister said from the beginning: my intention is that we should agree on 72 hours. He has then abandoned it and believes that he must decide for himself. I think that is an elastic band in meter size, and that gives us enormous ambiguity in the law and, at the same time, we get that, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted said, a cross-law, that the general rules are in a way where you get 10 days of self-isolation. Here there are quite different rules, which means that there is a difference between how to behave outside the workplace and at work. It's like sir. Bent Bøgsted quite rightly said, some mess. And it will not be easy to manage either for the Labour Inspectorate or for others to be involved. The second is that travelling drivers driving cabotage or combined services are exempt from these rules. They can run everything they want, back and forth, unload and load and meet with a lot of people at the Danish workplaces without testing, not even a test within the 10 days. It is quite irresponsible that this area should be released probably because the European Union says that the free movement of transport and such things must be present, and that is to say that health considerations are being ignored in favour of profits and profits. This is quite unacceptable and there is no balance in this at this time. The third is about, if I may keep the word...
ParlaMint-DK_20210202171335	Wait a minute. There is a little bit of unrest in this Chamber, both on one side and on the other, so I would just like to recommend that Members hold talks elsewhere. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202171345	It's certainly because this is really exciting and important, and that's why people are of course very attentive and discussing it with the side person. But I find it hard to concentrate when people talk pretty loud, at least when it's close. The third thing is that I, like Mr. Simpson, am... Bent Bøgsted thinks it's pointless to make a rule that says: OK, just get into the workplace; we're not so fond of these quick quick tests, and they're not so sure, so we need a PCr test, but you can go for a 3-4 days into the workplace and risk infecting people; it's for the sake that employers should of course benefit from you right away. Once again, more attention is paid to production and profits and the economy than to health. It should be the case that one was self-insulated until the results of the PC test are available, just as the general rules of the health authorities are, and not dispensing because it is a workplace. It must then also be the case that the workers who are to work with the incoming workers have the right to the same right, namely to have a test if they find that they have been working with an infected travelling worker for up to four days. Then, like the travellers, during their working hours and with transport, you have to be able to go and get a test. That is something that goes without saying: there must be equal rights. The Minister does not seem to be interested in this either. If the aim is to minimize the infection, if we could agree with the minister on what he is a little unclear in his speech; he says that it is only the test he is thinking of; then we need to strengthen the preventive work, the work on the working environment, so simply make sure that there is the alcohol of distance, that the work is planned so that you do not infect each other; so that it is optimal. There I think it is an aggravating fact that we have these very contagious diseases, and therefore it is not enough just to say: Well we just have to follow the general health and safety rules. We must demand, exceptionally, that employers and employees comply with all rules relating to the covid-19 and all health and safety rules, and this must also be checked. And he doesn't think that's a good idea either. It is quite strange that we are talking so much about how dangerous this is and yet we will not go to the bite when we finally have to regulate the labour market. Then there is the proposal put forward by some of the bourgeois parties, which is about the fact that it is a pity for employers that, in connection with the test, they have to pay wages and transport. I do not know whether it is a pity for them all to contribute in some way. And if you want to make use of incoming labour because you do not want to pay the labour you have in Denmark, then you also have to pay the additional price to get them into the country. That is something that goes without saying. Otherwise, as the previous rapporteur said, we could of course use up to 50,000 extra unemployed people that we have at the moment. It would be a god's happiness, I'm sorry, I'm saying that we can't call on the higher powers, but it would be a blessing to be allowed to get those people to work now that they've become unemployed because of the covid-19 crisis. And every employer is free to teach them, if you are not too comfortable, and yes, you have to pay for what it costs to get people from other countries. Now, that was a rather harsh song on my part, because I think we have done a bad job in committee, and in particular the Minister has rejected all the good proposals for improving this bill. There is one small improvement left, namely that employers are obliged to ensure that these people are vaccinated, but so it is said. That's too bad, sir. I think we could do better, and I had the expectation that a minister from a so-called Labour Party would have done much better than this. So we are voting in favour, but we do not think we have taken advantage of the opportunities we actually have on the flat hand, without it costing a great deal, but where it could have a huge health impact. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202171806	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then the New Citizens' rapporteur is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202171837	I think there was a slight indictment in the previous rapporteur's speech that he would not preach socialism. I do not think that was a mistake, and that was a compliment, because I do not think the rapporteur is allowing any opportunity to preach a little socialism to go away. I shall make it a little shorter, and I can just say that we can support Amendment No. 4 from the Left, and that I actually think the government has found a good balance in this proposal, so we can support it. We do not agree with the criticisms that are being made, and I think the government has actually landed it in a good place here. So it has to be the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202171910	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Then I'll see if anyone else wants to speak. As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202171918	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and SF), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 3, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and SF), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 4, by a minority (V, RV, KF and LA), joined by NB, which rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 5 and 6 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT), which was rejected. They are rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202172042	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202172051	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202172128	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Liselot Blixt from the Danish People's Party does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202172135	Thank you very much. When we have an emergency law, we also have to take the floor when something happens along the way. I know that it was an agreement that has been put together with those parties that want to do something, so that we secure the borders of the country. We just don't think it's enough compared to what TV 2 actually tried the other day when they sat on a train in Padborg and found out that there were 22 Danes going across the border, and no one checked who they were or where they came from. So it is an amendment on that, because we think we could ensure that we have border guards, that we ensure that workers and borderers can go one way, but we all have to test. Already you have found out that, well, if you can't get on a plane, then you just take a plane to Hamburg or somewhere else or take the train home. So what do we have out of this bill if we're trying to secure the boundaries? I know that there were two parties I think it was the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party that wanted to have entry bans in the past. We might just think that crossing the border, that is, across the border, but we think it's important that we have the same rule, whether you're on land on water or in the air. That is why we have tabled the amendment. The Minister has answered questions from some parties about what that would mean, and the Minister also writes that if there is a majority in favour of the proposal, it can be done. One can expect that there will be some queue, of course, there will be, and there will probably be at the airport, and that is why we must also think a little about when we leave when we are in the middle of a coronatide. In the Danish People's Party we do not want us to have more infection from foreigners or Danes who travel on holiday to party, while we then shut down a society, and it costs our business, it costs the elderly who cannot get out, or the weakest in society. That is why we have tabled the amendment. But it does not seem that there is support for it, so dear Danes: you can just take the train or the car across the border, then it works fine; then no one controls you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202172350	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202172359	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 of a minority (DF) rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2 of a minority (RV and EL), joined by a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202172432	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today at 1 p.m. 17.40. I would ask everyone to leave the Chamber quietly now so that we can get drunk off here during the break.
