ParlaMint-DK_20210420131502	The meeting is open. Member of the Folketing Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following motion for a resolution: Proposal for a Parliament resolution to introduce an age limit of 18 years for the genital mutilation of boys for non-medical reasons. B 6). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed and therefore paragraph No. 27 of today's agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420131535	The item listed as No. 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420131546	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. Before starting the vote, I would ask each Member to check that they also have their own name in the voting panel in front of them at the seat where they have been seated. If that is the case I do not quite sense panic at this point in time I would say that we can start the vote. There is one proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 110, and the vote begins. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 51 (V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and Uffe Elbæk), against 30 (S), abstentions 10 (DF and NB). The proposal for adoption has been adopted and the question has been closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420131723	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420131741	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 86 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, NB and Uffe Elbæk), against 8 (KF and LA), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420131808	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420131825	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 54 (S, SF, RV, EL and Uffe Elbæk), against voting 41 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420131851	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420131910	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote shall be closed. (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA and Uffe Elbæk) The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420131933	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420131949	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour, 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and Uffe Elbæk) voted against, 0 abstentions 2 (NB). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132011	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132029	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 55 (S, SF, RV, EL, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and 2 (DF) (by mistake)), against voting 40 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132054	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132107	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote shall be closed. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132129	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132149	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against 0, abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132211	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132240	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 34 (V, KF, NB and LA) voted against 61 (S, DF, SF, RV, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132303	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132320	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (NB), joined by a minority (DF) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 10 (DF and NB), against 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132355	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132424	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? I am told that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt wishes to speak on the legislative proposal. Here you go, SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132457	Thank you. What I want to say is not really about the amendments. It is, in fact, a missing amendment. Because in the SF we had asked for technical assistance for an amendment which would introduce the same rules as for Dankort, i.e. they also apply to MitID. We do not disagree that there should be a replacement for NemID, but we are also just very concerned that there has been an incredible amount of abuse of NemID. There's nothing safe here. MitID is probably safer, but a 100-percent guarantee that there can be no abuse does not exist, and that is why we think that the liability rules that have been in connection with NemID have been very problematic, because we have seen very many cases of people hanging on the bill for abuse of their NemID. That is why we wanted to see this proposal also dealt with liability rules, and there we have some excellent liability rules for Dankort today, which are not themselves liable for abuse. I know that the Minister has promised a solution and a review. I had just seen that it would have been best if we had got it in the context of this proposal which we are about to adopt. I have no idea exactly what the Minister is bringing in, but I am very anxious that when you are forced to use digitalisation solutions as a citizen, there is also a guarantee that you do not hang on to the bill when it is that there is abuse. We have just seen a lot of examples of this. I have received some confidential answers and, of course, I cannot stand here and say what they are about, but I would say that it is not a small number of citizens who have been caught up here. So I would very much urge the Minister, since I am unable to table an amendment here today, to quickly send over a mandate for the committee which will have to work with some possible other liability rules, so that we will be assured that there will be the built-in guarantee for those citizens who will be forced to use this MitID. Actually, that's all I wanted to say. There is no amendment from the SF because we have not had the technical assistance to make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132718	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? If that is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132731	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132746	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132813	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132837	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132904	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132928	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420132952	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, elected by a majority (S, V, DF, RV, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG))? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420133007	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420133024	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the CF)? It's agreed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 2 of a minority (KF). The vote shall be closed. In favour of 9 votes (KF and NB), against 63 (S, DF, SF, RV, EL, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and 1 (V) (by mistake)), abstentions 22 (V). Amendment No. 2 is rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 and 4 adopted by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the CF) or on Amendment No 3. 5, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420133146	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420133158	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420133223	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420133238	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420133308	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420133327	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 16 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 80 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 16 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 79 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. That concludes the vote. In favour of voting 15 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 80 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8 and 9, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420133515	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. I hereby suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.50 since it allows the seats in the room to be cleaned. I would therefore ask all Members to leave the Chamber quietly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135002	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. The first rapporteur to speak is from the Social Democratic Party. And this is sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135034	Thank you, President. It is the case that the government and the conciliation parties behind the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs in December of last year agreed on a number of initiatives to adjust the resource progression scheme. This should help to create better resource flows for the benefit of the country's vulnerable citizens, so that more people in resource sequences get the right and early effort to help them further in jobs or education. It can also be said that the agreement is a response to the fact that the 2012 reform in several areas has unfortunately failed to comply with the intention and therefore there has been a need for adjustments. The legislative proposal we are considering today is intended to implement the part of the agreement that is about adjusting the resource flow scheme. I would like to say that it is a social democratic core value to create a place for everyone in the Danish working community. We believe that both society and the individual have the best of being part of the community, even though their abilities may be limited in scope. That is why we must test the possibilities before granting early retirement. In 2013, the then government consisting of the Social Democracy, the Radicals and the SF introduced resource processes with the aim of sharpening the focus on the individual citizen and his resources. The intention was, in fact, true: the citizen and the individual ability to work should be at the centre, and the effort should be based on the needs of the individual. Unfortunately, we have to say that the evaluations showed that the flows of resources have been both inadequate and pointless. The citizens do not receive the right help and in many ways the reform does not live up to its intentions in 2012. That is why I am very pleased that the Socialist Government and the conciliation parties behind the agreement have set out to adjust the reform so that it makes sense to the citizens who need the intention behind it. The draft law states that resource processes must be targeted at the individual and the individual's needs and situation. We guarantee a guarantee of action which means that a case must be discussed in the rehabilitation team unless an employment effort, social effort or community health effort has been undertaken within the first six months of the resource cycle. A right to a personal job service provider will be introduced and a right will also be introduced for people in resource development to have a conversation with a health coordinator who can advise the municipality in relation to the health situation. Persons with less than 6 years of age to retirement age shall not participate in a process of resource development unless they so wish. Persons between 40 and 50 years of age will in future be granted one or more courses of resources, but for a maximum of 5 years in total. It is also the case that little is being tightened up so that the maximum duration of resource sequences is reduced to 3 years as against 5 years today for all age groups. The draft law before us today also proposes, in addition to the resource cycle, an adjustment of the rules on social pensions, whereby ex-entities who have been diagnosed with ptsd or other illnesses are exempted from early retirement in the event of a permanent improvement in their working capacity. I think this is a good initiative and a step in the right direction in relation primarily to our veterans, as we are talking about here. So, on the part of the Social Democrats, we must recommend the draft law as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135426	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135435	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech and also to the recognition that what was said was that one's intention was not the result of the reforms. The rapporteur himself addresses this issue with the intervention guarantee of 6 months, and this is that the length of the sequence of resources is reduced from 5 to 3 years, because people between 18 and 39 years of age can, in principle, just keep on and on and on and on. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the guarantee of intervention is enough, or whether we should not actually be given a guarantee of clarification, so that we ensure that all the sick and unemployed have a right to be resolved within one year and be searched for either ordinary work, training, rehabilitation, flexible jobs, resource development or early retirement? Should we not have a right to clarification so that we do not continue to see that people are just being put in the system?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135540	I think that with the adjustment that is being made here, we are improving some of the tools that exist to actually clarify them. This is among other things. The intervention guarantee, which is an element of it, is some of the rights that are being added to the individual there. We would certainly like to try this out in the first place in relation to some of the rights that we create and give. We are not ready right now for a clarification guarantee in relation to this, but we agree that the purpose is to clarify and that this should not be a clarification that will take an infinite number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135613	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135615	But then we just don't get the help of those who get into the system right now. So how long is it gonna take before you want to see the effects of this, and see that this isn't enough for you to look at a clarification guarantee? That is just a follow-up question to one. The second is: why should improvements in relation to the veterans with ptsd only apply to them? Why should it not apply to everyone with ptsd, for the problem is probably the same when you have the disease, regardless of whether you have been at war or not? I recognise that it is an improvement for them, but I just do not understand why it will not be applied to everyone with that disease.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135655	Well, I just repeat in and out that I think that some of the tools in the adjustment we are making here are a step in the right direction when it comes to not having those pointless and hopeless perspectives in terms of one's own clarification of this. As I say, we are not ready for a clarification guarantee at this stage. I can't tell you exactly how long it takes. Now let some of these things work, and then we'll have to look at it. But it's not going to be as long as from 2012 and then until now, until further adjustments come, if this doesn't work, but we have a hope that it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135733	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135736	Thank you. I have two questions. Let's see if we can reach them. In connection with this agreement, there was talk of a process of resource development. Just to be absolutely sure: the changes here have nothing to do with job clearance for those who have been affected, i.e. those who enter a resource cycle after illness, where you enter a job clearance process, and where you get resource progress. It doesn't have anything to do with that, does it? It's just about those who have to be approved for early retirement? It's gonna be nodded, so I'll take it for good goods. Another question is this: six years before retirement age, we do not have to go into resource development. Does that mean that those who are six years earlier per year? Will early retirement or senior pension be granted in this respect? I think that is a little unresolved, because what will happen to them in the six years until they reach retirement age? Is it pr. automatic, you get awarded a senior pension or a regular early retirement pension? I can't look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135839	It is my best bet that it has not been proposed immediately. So that's the benefit you're on until you reach retirement age. So it is not automatic to switch to early retirement. It is, I am sorry to say, a blank cheque that would then be delivered to all six years before retirement age in relation to an early retirement pension. In this, there's an opportunity for you to be freed from this, but if you want to choose this one, there's also an opportunity for you to come in, even if there are six years left, and get some further help to perhaps get some progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135914	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135916	Well, that means that those who have six years of age at the age of retirement should not be in the process of resource development. They have no guarantee of clarification for an early retirement pension or a senior pension. They can just go on the service they have had so far. Some may not have a benefit because the spouse has too much income, and others may be on resource progression benefits which can then continue to retirement age, but they have no guarantee that they will be given a clarification as to whether they can get early retirement or senior pension. If they are to be clarified, should they themselves want them to want to do so in terms of resources, that is to say in order to have a clarification, is that how it should be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420135956	That's right. One can say that this is just an opportunity to give a group that is so close to retirement age, and one of the things that has been discussed in the past is the question: is it reasonable that we should continue to spend so much resources on a group which is perhaps close to retirement age and which is not necessarily interested in participating in these long periods? But for those who have this interest, the possibility must of course be present.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140021	Thank you, sir. Henrik Møller. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. And thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140047	Thank you. I am pleased that today we are getting action behind the agreement we made in a circle of parties to improve the flow of resources. It annoys me, of course, that we had to wait until December, after memory, when we, at least in the Left, were ready to act on this as early as autumn 2019, but better late than never. After all, the regulation has in several ways failed to meet its intentions. The process has been long and too often without content and has generally been of too poor quality. We're gonna end this now. For the Left, it is crucial that we have dealt with the child diseases that have occurred in the course of the resource processes, so that we can help more of our vulnerable citizens even better. With the agreement, we get shorter and more focused processes and a greater focus on the business-oriented processes. This is good, because business-oriented processes are a very important part of ensuring that more people gain a foothold in the labour market. We also strengthen people's motivation to get paid work by enabling those who have income from ordinary employment to retain a slightly larger share of that salary than today. In addition, we will also be extremely pleased that we have an increased focus on getting a realistic expectation of how the individual can develop his or her ability to work, and in this context that people with less than 6 years of age to retirement age should not be allocated resource paths unless they want to. In addition to the implementation of the agreement on resource development, I am also pleased that, with a small element in this bill, we will have a greater respect for the veterans who have risked their lives for Denmark. In the future, ex-dispatterns who may suffer from serious psychological harm should not be able to obtain early retirement, even if there may be cases of a permanent improvement in their ability to work as a citizen. It is goodness, and it is, we believe, the veterans, as if someone deserved that more calm can be created in their lives and everyday life. So the Left supports the bill and looks forward to the discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140338	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it is Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140343	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. According to KL figures, in 2018, resources cost nearly 700 million. kr., and we can see that 85%. Of those who have been on it, however, have ended up with a flex job or an early retirement pension; 3%. is transferred to ordinary work. This is a really expensive cost to the public. It is at the human level for the people who are pulled through this also a real, really expensive arrangement, that is, with regard to what they can feel on themselves. And then we see that the figure for how many people are receiving an early retirement pension today, despite the fact that we remove the increase in retirement age is higher than it was before the 2013 reform came into force. Does that not impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140441	Yes, it certainly makes an impression, but my conclusion is in fact the opposite of Enhedslisten's. Well, we want to help people. We want to ensure that people can get back to the labour market through the right support; we welcome that. There are also people who, with the right support and effort in resource development, can come back and take an education and thus finally also enter part of the labour market. There are also people who can come back and get a flex job. The rapporteur skilfully forgets to draw attention to this. So for the Left, it's all about not giving up. We must help people and we must provide them with even better resources than they have experienced. So, yes, the money can certainly be used much better, and that's also why we made this deal. And then I regret that Enhedslisten already in 2013 stamped out and didn't want to be a part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140537	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140539	You don't have to apologize at all. I am very pleased that I am the employment rapporteur for a party that has not been involved in this reform. If we are actually going to do what needs to be done, why is it that the former Left Minister has been involved in phasing out the use of rehabilitation? If we see something that actually gives a lot of money again, compared to what you invest • that people get the opportunity to take an education, get back to work • why is it that you do not prioritise the things, i.e. those that you know work, such as those that you know work. rehabilitation? That is one question. The second question is: can the rapporteur of the Left perhaps answer why it is only former soldiers and other sent-outs with ptsd who receive help, and not others with ptsd?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140627	The questioner should remember it using direct indictment. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140629	With regard to the latter in relation to veterans: we owe veterans a great deal and therefore the Left warmly supports giving them peace of mind so that they can move on with their lives. And that is why we support that element of the bill. But on the subject of rehabilitation, Mrs Victoria Velasquez mentions it as if it were the facts. That's not what the numbers show. There are many other elements in the employment effort that also work. And I am quite sure that the municipalities use more tools in the toolbox to get the unemployed back to work, including rehabilitation; we do not have a ban on using that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140714	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140719	Thank you. There are, of course, some good proposals in this, but I would just like to hear from the rapporteur of the Left about something relating to seniors who have six years left for the retirement pension. They can apply for a resource sequence if they want, but if the municipality doesn't make some bets themselves, they shouldn't, and that means they shut down completely, unless you apply for a lot of seniors, who may not really have any income. It may be that they may go on a resource-flow grant that is set off because the spouse has more income and they will not be able to get clarification per year. automatic. I would say that they should have been granted an early retirement pension or a senior pension when they say that no effort should now be made. They have no future in the labour market because they are dropped. Then why do you not admit them per year? Automatically a senior pension when they have 6 years left for the folk pension? That's what we've been talking about, that is, they can start applying for a senior pension about six years before they reach retirement age. But you don't do that here. It is said that they can go on the services they have done so far, even if they are very low services, and then they simply close their efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140838	That element of the agreement must be seen as an offer. So that we no longer say to people close to retirement that they have to go through a multi-annual cycle of resources, we think that is a sensible approach. If you are close to retirement age, you can apply for e.g. to be granted a senior pension as an option. It may also be that you are in a situation that is more stable and then you can apply for an early retirement pension on a available basis. There are several possibilities to take advantage of. But this just has to be seen as an element in which we no longer say to the municipalities that they should force people close to retirement into a process of resource development, and that sounds like common sense to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140929	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420140932	But if you look at it, it is clear that the municipalities do not make an effort unless the person wants it. For it is written directly in the law that the conciliation parties agree that persons with less than 6 years of age to retirement age should not be granted resource courses unless they want to, and that means that if they are not aware that they have to seek a resource path, the municipality does nothing, and otherwise they can go 6 years on a reduced benefit instead of getting an early retirement pension or senior pension. Doesn't it seem a little strange that you drop people for 6 years and say, "It's up to you if you want a resource progression, but you should know that you're going on the low performance?"
ParlaMint-DK_20210420141014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420141014-2	It must be seen as the approach that we do not want people close to retirement to be forced into a process of resource which at that time in their lives does not seem very appropriate and sensible, and that is also the approach that the municipalities must take. And, of course, the municipalities must have continuous dialogue with these people here in order to constantly find out whether to apply for a senior pension or whether to apply for an early retirement pension. So the possibilities are, in fact, still gone. We just do not want to force people through a process of resources where the perspective at that time in their lives is not equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420141104	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then there are no more brief comments. And before I welcome the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, we are taking a short break for technical reasons, since the speaker desk is apparently not connected to the buttons. So hopefully we have to find the power. Bent Bøgsted It didn't get any better by getting it down any further. ) Things only go down, they don't go up. Speaker's gonna be a remote cop today. So you have to look over at a parliamentary officer to ask for assistance to get to the heights. But the down button works. So little creative control must be there today. Welcome to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420141210	Yeah, thanks for that. Kilroy was here. Well, joke aside. After all, there are some improvements to this proposal, although it is also something that we in the Danish People's Party find a little strange. But let us start with the sequence of resources. From the beginning, we in the Danish People's Party have found that 5 years was too long for the resource cycle. It was then put down and it is fine that it has been reduced to 3 years. We would have wanted two years and then with the possibility that you might wish to have it extended yourself. So that's what it is, but three years is better than nothing. What just catches me is that people with less than six years of age at the retirement age are exempt from the provision of resources. There is no need for the municipality to initiate a process of resource development unless they wish to do so themselves. But what you forget is that it is not certain that people who have six years of retirement can get to work in any way. It also says that if it doesn't make sense to create a sequence of resources, you shouldn't. Then they need clarification. But why can't you do it? Automatically say that if it doesn't make sense to give them a clarification, then should they have awarded a senior pension or an early retirement pension? Then you can say, 6 years before you get it per. automatic, if it is now estimated that there is no purpose for you to go into resource development; then you will be granted early retirement or old age pension. But you don't. They say: then you get to go on the benefit you have had up to now, and if it has been a resource progression benefit that is reduced due to the spouse's income, as it is always something that those who go into job clearance on sickness benefit are not included in this, because they continue on what they have received then you can go 6 years on a low benefit, and then you can ask the municipality to get a resource progression. And if the municipality then considers that there is no possibility of getting him back into the labour market, he may eventually be granted an early retirement pension. But you can then go on 3 years on resource courses until you go on a retirement pension. I think that is wrong. This is one of the points where we in the Danish People's Party at least think it is quite wrong to do it that way. One of the things that is also very good is that those who have been posted and have been granted early retirement cannot be withdrawn from early retirement if they have been diagnosed with ptsd. It's really good for our soldiers, policemen, or whoever's been deployed. There are now very many Danes who have been sent out and have been diagnosed with ptsd and have been granted early retirement. Then you can't lose your early retirement. That is very good in this respect. It is also quite fine that revenue should not be offset any longer. So there are quite a few good things, but the first thing I probably complain about most is that they are not given an opportunity to get a direct clarification about early retirement or senior pension with six years' pension. I would have liked to have seen that come, but I understand that it has not been planned. You can go on the performance that you have and then you can apply for a resource cycle yourself. Because the municipality doesn't do it per year. Automatically, because this law is not in their hands. They should not concentrate on those who have less than 6 years of age for the retirement pension. Despite the dissatisfaction and we will probably not have it changed, although we would have liked the government to have tackled it and to have it changed, but we probably will not, because there is a broad circle behind it, there are, after all, many improvements in this proposal, including the reduction from 5 to 3 years and the possibility of extension. Because you can probably get it extended anyway, even if you say that it is reduced to 3 years, because if it is 40-50 years old, you give more resources, and then you are up to the maximum. 5 years, so it's not that it's definitely reduced to 3 years, it can be 5 years anyway. But these are improvements after all, and that is why, despite our criticism of it, the Danish People's Party can of course support the proposal, because we are voting for the improvements that lie in it. However, it is not optimal for those who have less than 6 years left for the retirement pension. In any case, they need to think carefully before they say 'no' to a process of resource development. I hope, then, that the municipalities can get their act together so that they can be clarified quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420141727	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party, Mr. Karsten Hønge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420141758	In May 2018, we dealt with a minor improvement in the law on early retirement and flexible jobs. In this context, we agreed to address a major reform of the law in autumn 2018. And then we are now three years later, and frankly I am not very impressed by that. And the change in 2018 had even taken months of negotiations. What we agreed on in 2018 was among other things. to clarify in the law that no one should be in the process of resource development if there is no realistic prospect of the development of the ability to work. So you can say: was it really necessary to make a change of law for something so trivial and something so obvious? Yes, it was necessary; just as it had been necessary to clarify in the past that people who had been given a terminal declaration should not be included in resource processes. So it says a little about the municipal forces we have been up against in some places. I also remember that some parties considered that the changes in 2018 would have no meaning at all, but the change in 2018 actually meant that two decisions of principle by the Ankestyrelsen were changed and thus had a subsequent impact on citizens. The City of Copenhagen subsequently announced that due to the change they actually changed the practice. SF is working for a radical change of this law. The changes currently being brought forward by the conciliation circle are moving in the right direction, but things have gone too slowly and are not as far-reaching as the SF might wish. But it's as far as we could get. Indeed, the circle of early retirement and flexible jobs is not made up of people whistling on the day they poke their mouths. I have read in Jyllands-Posten that I should have rolled myself on the floor and set my own clothes on fire in the Ministry in frustration over the slowness and when it says in the paper, it must be right. At any rate, I think that there is reason to be disappointed by the slug speed which has influenced the work of this conciliation group. But at last we are finally improving the flow of resources. Over the years, I have moved hair totes out of the scalp in a mixture of rage and frustration over the way sick, vulnerable and vulnerable people are treated. Now we change the law again and tighten up on resource cycles, and that is good. Whatever we do here, however, it is crucial that it is the municipalities that have to treat their citizens in a humane and respectful way, and that is not, strictly speaking, too much to ask. However, we just have to note that in some places the citizens of the municipality are apparently perceived as virtually opponents. I've often wondered what part of the body you're thinking about in these municipalities. I mean, the only result I've come up with is that it's certainly not with my head. The head of SF is always: Strengthen citizens against the system; the sick must have more firm rights, and they must be stronger against the municipality. Pre-retirement and flexible jobs can be the life-saving wreath for a better life, and all citizens in Denmark have the right to be treated with care and dignity. What is happening at the moment is almost a national lottery. It is the postal number and the personal number that are crucial today for the treatment of the citizen. Some municipalities actually treat their citizens with respect, other municipalities leave the citizens to themselves. We need to put a stop to the social policy approach. A few years ago, six proposals for improvements landed on our tables. They came from the initiative called ValuegReform, and these proposals are in full and fine extension of the title of the SF for a revision of the law, namely more rights to citizens. SF suggests that when the ability to work is less than 7 hours a week, the citizen must be able to choose between resource processes, flex jobs or early retirement, and if the citizen is not resolved within the time limit, he will have the same rights. SF believes that it is the citizen himself who should be able to apply for resources and be able to complain about the progress. We believe that the conditions of employment for flexible jobs must always be agreed with the unions, and SF believes that it should be possible to create a flexible job again in the company where you work. We propose that a number of time guarantees be reduced over the course. In the health sector, we are working on the concept of the guarantee of treatment; I also believe that in this context we must provide guarantees that there is a momentum in their case; a guarantee of progress or a guarantee of clarification will be the tool that can discipline the municipalities. Instead of tripping, the municipalities must give the citizens a helping hand, and disadvantaged people must have a stronger foundation to stand on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142308	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142313	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech, in particular for the fact that the rapporteur does not accept this, but does not point out to sick people and people with disabilities that the things that the rapporteur said here in summing up are sensible are even included in this agreement and in relation to the criticism that the rapporteur makes of the agreement. I would like to ask about part of what you have agreed and which I do not fully understand, and this is about abolishing the state's reimbursement of 50%. to the municipalities' expenditure on mentoring for citizens in resource development. I do not understand that, because we know that mentor support can actually be crucial for, for example, the European Union. citizens with major mental and social problems • some of those who are having a really difficult time in resource development. And the support can be crucial for them to be able to start working at all in the process of resource development. That is why I fear that in practice the mentoring system will be abolished for this group. Will the rapporteur tell me why it has been chosen to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142420	Because there was a majority for it. In fact, I fully agree with Mrs Victoria Velasquez that it has a good effect to have mentors, but that is to say, there was a majority in favour of a desire to change it. It must also be said, however, that there is not such convincing experience that it works as well as we would like, but I do agree with Mrs Victoria Velasquez and we would have liked it to have been preserved. But then there was a majority in favour of not doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142453	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142454	Thanks for the honesty. Then I have another question about something in the agreement that I do not understand either, and it is about abolishing the state reimbursement of 50%. to the municipalities' operating costs for citizens in the course of resource development. Could the rapporteur not be worried that we are seeing more of a drive around in business practices or other things that are free of charge for the municipality to do and that, in relation to the clarification guarantee, as the rapporteur also mentioned, there is even more prospect of actually being clarified? Why has it been decided to remove the State's reimbursement to the municipalities in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142530	Because there was money in it. So, I actually argued completely, as Mrs Victoria Velasquez did here, during the meetings and said that we have other experiences from other courses in the past, that there you see that the municipality is saving on, for example, the training effort, and that we may be afraid that if you do this you will see the same thing, so that you start saving on those things that cost a little more, among other things. the training effort. As with all other agreements, we just have to say that this has some things that I do not think are very good, and Mrs Victoria Velasquez has as surely as a heat-seeking missile hit precisely those points that I think there is reason to criticise. But overall, I think that the agreement here is a clear step forward in relation to what we had before. It is clearly an improvement in the law that gives these people more rights, and we have targeted our resources in a completely different way than we have done in the past. So that's a marked improvement, ah, that's maybe so much said, but it's an improvement. But the two points raised by Mrs Victoria Velasquez, I agree with the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142626	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur, and this is the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142645	The resources are not working optimally as it is today, and that is why we put ourselves in the conciliation circle to change it. The Radical Left, together with the rest of the conciliation circle, reached an agreement on better progress on resources back in December last year, and this draft law translates the agreement, which, among other things, will be implemented. There are several rights, such as the right to a personal job intermediary, the right to interviews with health coordinator, and then there is also the advantage that the sequences of resources are shortened, so that in future each course can only last up to 3 years, compared to 5 years today. There is also a clear-cut guarantee for citizens over 50 years of age, so that within three years you will know whether, for example, you will be able to do so. must be on early retirement or in flexible jobs. And then, as other rapporteurs have also said, citizens with less than six years of age at the age of retirement are no longer going into resource development unless they want to. So far, resources have been long and without really helping people closer to the labour market. In the Radical Left, we want to help people to get back to work, in education or in flex jobs, and it is our responsibility from in here to look at every human being as a resource. That is why the Radical Left is included in the agreement and also strongly supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142822	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142826	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Some time ago I think it was actually in December of last year that we had a discussion here in Parliament on a proposal for more sanctions. I just remember that the rapporteur and I agreed that we should not sanction the readiness to act and that we shared a concern that particularly vulnerable people are subjected to sanctions. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur why, in this reform, we are now going in and saying that sanctions should apply to anyone who does not book a meeting or attends a interview at the job centre, when we know precisely what consequences it may have for those who are mentally vulnerable. It is not necessarily such a thing that is conducive to our bringing them forward better in life. There are some of the concerns that I actually think the Radical Left has formulated in a very fine way in the past. So why is it actually that we have included the readiness for activity in this reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420142930	I must admit that I do not remember the exchange of words of December last year or when it was to which Mrs Velasquez refers. But what this is all about for us is that this is a very good agreement, which strengthens the rights of some people and which improves the flow of resources. We can easily measure up to the fact that we also have expectations of people, because it is to regard people as a resource, that we therefore have expectations and make some loving demands on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420143006	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420143008	Thank you. That was the proposal that, among other things, was made. was about stricter sanctions if you leave on holiday but have not had the holiday in place with the job centre etc. That is the proposal I am referring to. However, is the rapporteur not at all worried that we are in fact in danger of putting back the steps that are needed to make people feel better, that we can get a flexible job, that we may get an ordinary job, that we can do more because we are doing the things that we know to be counterproductive?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420143041	The things that I deliberately listed, which this agreement and therefore this bill also contain, are significant improvements. It is also significant rights that are granted to citizens. It is clear that there have been some child diseases in connection with the whole process of resource management, and there you have to sit down and see if this can be improved. And when I look at this agreement, which also has clear radical prints, these are really good improvements for the benefit of the citizens. So we are quite satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420143113	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420143134	Thank you, President. The number of those receiving an early retirement pension, aged 18 to 59, is the same as before the early retirement pension reform in 2013. What does that mean? Yes, it reveals quite clearly that in practice the pains have been put off for the people who have been dragged through the system and have eventually ended up with an early retirement pension. Those who have decided on this have just delayed when these people could finally get what should be their rightful peace from the system. Frankly, I do not think that the decision-makers and the parties behind the reform can be aware of this. It is not a proper treatment of people with disease and disabilities, of those citizens of our societies who have serious health problems and/or are socially at risk. I think that the parties of the Folketing owe it to them to answer what they are really going to do to help those people who, because of ill health and other social conditions, have for many years been kept on a low level of public service with very little chance of being able to gain a link with the labour market. Overall on resource development, I can say that we in the Enhedsliste are opposed to the scheme, which maintains many people on a long-term basis on an excessively low dependency basis, with a very long-term prospect of determining whether they will be able to obtain either a flexible job or an early retirement pension. Only yesterday, I spoke to another citizen who should be given a flex job, but who will only be able to extend his resource cycle once again. We must remember that people in resource stages have already been a number of years in the employment system, for example. For many of them, it is a burden to have to go through another process, another period in which they have an uncertain future, regardless of whether the length of the resource cycle with the bill is reduced to 3 from 5 years or by even more years, with certain exceptions. The Enhedslisten therefore believes that resource development should be abolished together with the municipal rehabilitation teams and that a maximum clarification guarantee should be introduced instead. 2 years in which the benefits on which the sick person is insured are provided, such as: In the case of sickness benefits or cash benefits, where the ceiling is not applied, the 225-hour rule and the mutual dependent. As far as the municipal rehabilitation teams are concerned, we believe that this is a very expensive and bureaucratic model for the statutory participant at the meeting, as is the case procedure prior to the meeting, with the long schedules and statutory medical certificates, but at the same time we also find that for a number of citizens it is burdensome to have to meet a whole team of unknown professional professionals before they can possibly get an attitude to a flex job, a resource cycle, early retirement, self-employment grants, job clearance or sickness benefits. We believe that the time and money spent on the municipal rehabilitation teams should instead be spent on a meaningful and dignified procedure where there is more time for the caseworker, for the sick and for the unemployed. Sick and unemployed persons should receive a legal guarantee ensuring that they are clarified within 12 months and, in exceptional cases, 24 months in order to be searched for ordinary work, training, rehabilitation, flexible jobs or early retirement. And with regard to rehabilitation, it has become the case that you have to look at all other options. After all, it has become arbitrary when to make use of rehabilitation. It shouldn't be like that. With such a clarification guarantee, we would be able to deal with the major human and social problems that thousands of people are experiencing, where they are being parked in the cash aid system for years without the help needed to move forward in life. I think that is a huge betrayal of the many thousands of people who in this way are being made in the lurch, and it is a failure that is caused by changing governments, the Folketing and the municipalities alike. When we negotiated the understanding paper, we actually got the impression that the government was going to do something here to correct the damage caused by past reforms, and it was written into the understanding paper that we had to ensure a critical review of the reforms. Is this what was meant here in terms of resource development, or could the conciliation circle not be put in any other way? It is disgraceful that, despite many glorious words that we must not abandon the vulnerable and block the weak, that is exactly what is happening. I have a lot more to say, but time passes, and that is why I think I will go to a summary of two things. One thing is that we will be able to save nearly 700 million here. kr., and I hope that we can look at that later when we see how to rethink the municipal employment effort. The second thing is that the draft law contains some minor improvements to the process of resource development, and these are improvements after all, and that is why we support the Enhedslisten on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420143652	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420143655	I just want to say that there's something a little unfinished about this. I myself also mentioned this earlier in my questions to a couple of rapporteurs. Mrs Victoria Velasquez mentions those who are on sickness benefits and in the course of resource development, but those who are on sickness benefits are not in resource development; they are in job clearance courses well enough on resource progression benefits. As I understand from the Social Democrat rapporteur, those on sickness benefits are not part of this bill. It is just that there should be no confusion, and we can get the Minister to confirm it when the Minister comes to the floor. Because if you take those who are in the job clearance process into this, you're on the wrong track, because it's a completely different conciliation circle that's there. The rapporteur just mentioned those who are on sickness benefit, but they are not covered by this, as I understand it, but we will have the Minister confirm that when the Minister gets on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420143747	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420143748	Thank you. I share the same view of the reconciliations that the questioner has. When I mention them on sickness benefit, it is because I believe that you should stay on sickness benefit and not be able to fall out after 22 weeks if you are still ill. We can see that a lot of those who end up in this system shouldn't have been there at all in the first place. So instead of making an effort, we're actually helping them while they're on sick leave. It will also help to prevent people from experiencing both a social and an economic deroise, because it can be a very violent social event in one's life, which is the reason why you first get sick leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420143828	The next brief remark is to Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420143832	Thank you very much. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur has taken action against the other rapporteurs who have been on the platform; in fact, in such a way that I thought that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur might go up and say that it was a terrible proposal that Enhedslisten did not intend to support, and yet one is surprised. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur has also used his speaking time to speak in such a general way, but not on the concrete improvements that this bill proposes. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to reiterate that these are improvements, that these are rights granted to citizens and that Enhedslisten supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420143910	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420143911	I really have to say that I am sorry that the questioner thinks that it is thundering when you are critical of an agreement that has been made. But I also recognise that I am a little frustrated that things have gone so slowly and that nothing more has been done so that it may be, that is why. There are, for example: the part dealing with the right to a personal job service provider. I think that is a good suggestion. That is how there may be some different things that I see as improvements. That is why we are going to support it overall. When there are some things that I do not understand why we have agreed to, I think it is actually only good that the rapporteurs or the parties have the opportunity to make an explanation, in terms of whether it is something that they think is a good idea, or explain why it is part of the agreement. That is why I asked Radicals, but I did not get an answer from Radicals as to why it is that no more attention has actually been paid to the readiness to act in this draft law. I don't understand. I don't really think I got the answer either. So I didn't learn that part either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144020	There are no more brief comments. We thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144037	Thank you very much. Well, this bill is, of course, the implementation of a previously concluded agreement, which places a great deal of emphasis on some of the country's most vulnerable citizens, so that they can move forward more quickly with their progress. At the same time, for the older part of the target group, more attention is being paid to the number of years that they have left in the labour market, where reality is being seen more towards senior pensions, so that efforts can be concentrated mostly on those who have a long time left in the labour market. Of course, we support the agreement, but we also have a few things we would like to share on the road. It is clear that we have agreed because it has become a very good agreement. But one can still be critical of the inappropriateness of seniors not being given the opportunities in what a resource cycle can provide. And then we hope that we can be extremely ambitious in relation to the efforts of the municipalities. And then we have a lot of faith in business-oriented action. There are municipalities which have very good experience in allowing a job intermediary to be the link with the others involved. There are municipalities where a dedicated job team is connected to all the citizens of the municipality in order to always try the company-oriented efforts. We would like to see even more of that. It is also essential to set ambitious targets for physical rehabilitation and activity in relation to the actual effort in resource cycles. In this context, we saw that we made a minimum level of activity so that the individual citizen would have to attend a certain number of hours a week. be 10 hours which consisted of e.g. company practice, qualification, health performance, treatment, rehabilitation, etc. All in all, however, we think that this is a good agreement and we therefore support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144254	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144259	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. There are many citizens and I assume that the Conservative People's Party is also experiencing a feeling of frustration about what the system is like today. One of the people who has approached me is a man named Brian Larsen. He has been in the cash assistance system for many years before he went into resource sequences, and then he got a new resource sequence. And the latest explanation that he should have a new resource cycle again is that the job centre now believes that he has been psychologically affected and ill by the way the job centre has treated him. Then it's almost no more Kafkask, you might say. Does the rapporteur think that the problems of resource development have now been resolved with the agreement that lies here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144357	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144358	In other words, that is at least one of the things that has been tried to meet now, precisely with the significant improvements that are contained in the agreement. Whether or not we are completely avoiding the emergence of individual stories, for good reasons, I cannot answer; I think that it may be difficult to avoid completely. However, I believe that this agreement we have made means that there will be some significant improvements now, which should benefit the citizens, so that there will be some more appropriate arrangements in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144438	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144439	Thank you. Well, unfortunately, these aren't single stories. In other words, we can also see it from the most recent study by the Psychiatry Foundation and the National Association SIND, which shows that the longer you have been in contact with the system and the job center, the worse you get it. So I would just like to ask the follow-up to this with the amazing improvements, significant improvements that this agreement, according to the rapporteur, has: is it okay that it should only enter into force in 2022, i.e. that these people should be subjected to this for so long, or could it not be said that it will have to happen sooner?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144514-2	Thank you for the question. Yeah, I think that's actually okay, because it actually takes time to implement this in the municipalities. The municipalities have to adapt themselves to the fact that there are now some changes, and they have to do so, both in terms of how they operate today and also in relation to their systems. So it simply requires that they have to have an implementation period. So I think it's fair enough that they have time to prepare properly for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144543	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144609	There's no doubt that if it's up to New Citizens, we're gonna pull this whole monstrosity of a map house down around resource sequences and the basic construction with the job center and all that stuff. We simply do not think that this is the right way to proceed at this stage. So there should be no doubt that we would do that. We also hear the stories from people who are being pulled through these resource processes without the prospect of any progress that actually makes people sicker than it benefits them. So we'd tear down the system and build a better one. However, the specific proposal contains, I would say, a number of improvements, for example. For veterans, and also the shortening of the period of resources and such things as we see absolutely positive, because these are some things that are moving in the direction in which we would like to see the system go in, and we would, of course, like to acknowledge that from here too. I, as DF's rapporteur, also have a few questions about what kind of service these people should be on. For while it is said that they are not automatically granted early retirement, the bill also says directly that it is expected that this will mean that more people will take early retirement. It then wonders if these people do not automatically switch to it and there is no activation and a reference to early retirement when they say that, with these changes, more people will be expected to take early retirement. So there is at least a whole series of questions I have for committee reading on this. But basically there are many elements in here that we can support in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144749	We thank the rapporteur for the new citizens. The next speaker is the Secretary of Defense, who is asked to stay ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420144806	Thank you. I have just been allowed to say a few words at the outset about a small corner of the legislative proposal we are discussing here today. The Minister for Employment will subsequently also be available to answer questions. But when I have just been allowed to say a few words here for the first reading today, it is because I know that this bill means a lot to many veterans. That is why I would also like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to the more than 60,000 veterans who have been sent out and made a special effort for Denmark and for the security and security of all of us. The vast majority of veterans return from broadcasting. They contribute in the labour market as dedicated employees, bringing discipline, professionalism and strong cooperation with them. But some of our veterans return home with psychic but that makes it difficult to find a foothold in the labour market. We owe it to them to do all we can to enable them to become part of the working community, and that is the purpose of the wildcard system, which is part of the bill here. On my trips around the country I have met and talked to veterans who experience a great deal of concern about losing early retirement and thus the family's dependency, and that it stands in the way of working when the forces have been to it. A small group of vulnerable veterans is all about this, and some of them are already having difficulty rolling up the curtains in the morning and finding a foothold in the labour market after a broadcast. This is why the government wants to introduce a wildcard scheme for veterans on early retirement with ptsd or ptsd-like diagnoses so that we ensure that vulnerable veterans are better able to become part of the working community when they are well, without fear of losing their early retirement if or when things are going badly. That is why I also hope that the parties of the Folketing will support this proposal. For this also supports our most vulnerable veterans who have risked their lives for Denmark. Finally, I would like to express once again my greatest respect for the efforts of the thousands of veterans for the safety of all of us. Thanks for the effort. Thank you for taking good care of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145031	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145035	Thank you, Minister, for your speech and for recognising that you also have to take responsibility as a society and that when you send some people to war as a state, you also take responsibility for them when they return home. I have a slightly open question for the Minister. We have seen several times that it has been elucidated, among other things. in the report "Danske repatriated soldiers" from the SFI, that one in six soldiers has received a mental diagnosis, are given medication for mental illness or are in treatment for drug abuse after returning home. This is an important step that is being taken to avoid the risk of losing your early retirement. But are there any other things that the Minister thinks can be done in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145121	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145123	Yes, there is, and I really do not think that we have a good enough veteran effort in Denmark. It has improved significantly over the last 10 years. In view of the fact that we have only had a veteran effort for about 10 years, things are going quite well. But it is not good enough, we are not in the finish line yet, because there is particularly a group of very vulnerable veterans that we are not good enough to grab and reach out to. That is why, just before the turn of the year, we arrived at a new agreement aimed at the most vulnerable veterans. A total of 50 million will be set aside. kr. In addition, there are a number of initiatives aimed at improving access to the labour market, including a very hand-held effort and housing offer. This should help us to get a better hold of the group of veterans that I fully agree that today we are not good enough to reach.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145222	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145224	Thank you for that to the Minister. How, then, will the Minister follow what the results will be of the allocated money, and what other measures does the Minister intend to take?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145235	I believe that we must constantly follow our veteran efforts, and we must do so because there is also a difference between the broadcasts that our veterans are looking for, and that is why we cannot simply take the same action against all veterans, because they are also very different people, and therefore there must be a wide range of offers. We are constantly becoming wiser about what works in relation to veterans, and we are getting a new knowledge that can help to strengthen the effort, and I believe, of course, that we should be reflected in the efforts we are making, and thus I also say that we must continuously develop our initiatives and improve and refine the efforts we are making. There are still places where we need to take action, but I think that this is something we are going to do in the future because the missions are so different.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145327	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. There are no more brief comments. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Employment, but I would first like to ask the Minister for Defence to take the floor. Thank you. And here you go to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145344	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the debate to all the rapporteurs. Whether you are a part of the agreement or not, I think that it all contributes to the good fortune, as it should also do in the people's regime to highlight both the advantages and the disadvantages of the changes that have been made, but in fact also to have a thorough debate on it. Also, thank you to the Secretary of Defense for working together on this specific element about doing something extra for our veterans. The draft law here follows, as you know, from the agreement on improving the flow of resources that we entered into in the conciliation group behind the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs in December. And I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that we are taking the first step today in implementing some important and necessary improvements to the resource flow scheme. After all, the broad agreement behind this bill bears witness to a common ambition to strengthen the processes of resources in a number of key areas. So thank you to the conciliation circle for what I think ended up being a very good deal. As you know, the agreement is due to the fact that too many processes of resources have proved inadequate or empty and that the scheme has developed differently than was intended. Unfortunately, there are citizens who have also been mentioned during today's debate who have not received the help needed to move on with jobs or education, and for many citizens, there is a lack of resources and a lack of clear objectives and direction for action. It can and must be done better. For this reason, the government initiated a critical review of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, which aimed to correct those parts of the reform where citizens have been caught. It is important for the government that citizens meet with respect and dignity. We owe this to the many people who are in an uncertain situation and who need help to move on well. We continue to believe that the intention of resource cycles is good, but it has never been the intention that resource cycles should be without content or direction; and it has never been the intention that it should pull out like this. It is unworthy of everyone when it happens. It's the expectation that with this bill, we're helping to get it right. With the bill, we cut short, among other things. the maximum duration of a resource cycle for all from 5 to 3 years, and we target the programmes to those who will benefit most from long-term and multidisciplinary efforts. In other words, we are abolishing the processes of resources for those citizens who have less than six years of age at the age of retirement. The age limit for applying for a senior pension varies. To this end, we are introducing a guarantee of effort in the course of the process of resource development, which will ensure an early response for citizens, i.e. within the first six months of their progress. Effort guarantee applies to all in resource sequences. And these are just a few of the elements of the agreement. With the bill, we put a thick line on the fact that resource development must be targeted and make sense to the individual on the road to jobs or education. Of course, we have not solved everything with this bill, but it is a good and necessary step on the way to ensuring more dignified conditions and better support for citizens who need help to move forward. I would also like to stress that the critical review of the reform continues, because there are also parts of the rest of the reform that need to be pursued. In this context, we in the conciliation circle will look at the rules on flexible jobs and early retirement, and we will discuss what further adjustments are needed. I look forward to a further discussion of the draft law and, of course, I will make myself fully available for discussion in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145738	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief remarks. First, it's from Mrs. Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145742	Thank you. Now the Minister himself referred to this with the critical review. Is this what happens when it comes to resource sequences? To that I have a question: now the Minister himself mentioned this matter of senior pensions, and something we can actually see in the municipalities is that we have become more precise and have improved the part about the figures and when you are entitled to a senior pension. It also means that more people are given it. Can the Minister hear any music, or what they say, in that we are inspired by it and say: Okay, if you have a working capacity that is less than 12 hours, it is Enhedslisten's policy; it may also be what the 62 organizations have been out to say with 7 hours • can you actually choose freely from an early retirement pension or a flexible job? I think that would help a great many of those who are currently stuck in resource processes. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145839	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145840	I would like to start by saying, on the first part of Mrs Victoria Velasquez's question, that we have always been very open about it and also fully admit it is something we ourselves have also wanted us to go through the reforms that have been made over the past decade in a proper and serious way. That means we split it up into fragments. Now we have taken the first lump, as we have seen, also of the whole evaluation of the reform, that there were many challenges. Mrs Victoria Velasquez himself referred to some of them in her own rapporteur's speech, that is to say, with the processes of resources, and I believe, as I have heard all the rapporteurs say, also those who have said something critical about it, that there are clear improvements with this bill. The next thing we are going to do is look at flexible jobs and early retirement and then at sickness benefits. So, you shouldn't see this as the whole critical review is over. This is only the first stage out of a multi-painted exercise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145943	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420145943-2	Then I hope that there will be some action in the other areas that will make this irrelevant. But then let us deal with the resource sequences: you write in the agreement that the municipalities' rehabilitation teams should be watchdogs, and therefore, if no action has been taken within the first six months, they must ensure that this happens. Those who we see have not had an action taken within the first six months are very often those we see actually being granted an early retirement pension. So we're not risking stress on some of the people who are really, really sick, even more with this action? Will the Minister call the conciliation parties and then see if you have to drop this part of the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150026	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150027	No, because this was, in fact, something we were discussing, with open foreheads as well, with some parties and with the best intentions, and it was also a discussion whether we should not put the guarantee of intervention on a shorter scale. In other words, what is meant by the six months is that within the first six months you should be able to see what kind of plan is being implemented and what steps are being taken. I am in favour of that being read in the press, and I myself have met citizens who have told about the many who have had bad experiences, both with rehabilitation teams and in connection with resource processes. However, I have also met and talked to many other citizens and heard them ask for this not to be dropped because it has been an important tool either to help them in employment or to provide them with resources for other parts of their lives that did not ride on rails.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150115	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150116	Thank you. In his speech, the Minister mentions that we in the conciliation circle must also make progress in looking at the other elements of the early and flex-job reform. My question is: when will we get an invitation to move on to the flex job part? After all, there are elements there that are so much needed for us to look at. It's about how it's gonna pay to take a flex job and work hours. We need to discuss the element of restraint-flex jobs, and we also need to discuss the situation with the many flex-jobs who are currently in spouses' businesses, even when it comes to spouses' companies, which are aps or a/s. How do we deal with this issue? So my question is very brief: when will we be invited to further discussions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150218	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150220	I have a clear expectation that the conciliation parties will be done later this year. We haven't settled on a date yet, but I understand both of you. Hans Andersen's commitment and impatience, for there are many things to do in this connection. I can also make an open reference. After all, I am constantly responding through formal and informal questions with Mr. Hans Andersen, among others. about this challenge with people who flex jobs in the spouse's business, where we need to find the right cut. On the one hand, we must say that it should not be so vicious that things cannot be done. On the other hand, we must keep in mind that no rules will be drawn up to encourage people with bad intentions to set up fake companies. So we have to find some balance in that, and I look forward to embarking on discussions with both the Left and the other parties in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150322	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150325	I doubt that there are quite a lot of people whose spouse is searched for a flex job that starts to set up fake companies and that the spouse can get into flex jobs there. I don't think it'll count on more than one hand. That is why I think it is urgent to clarify this issue. There are hundreds of people out there who are now standing and wondering whether they should be fired tomorrow, because as I am listening to it the minister on that point goes hard to hold on to, I do not know whether that is the original or the new interpretation of what we have agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150409	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150411	I think sir... Hans Andersen is right that most people do not think that way. We just have to keep ensuring that the rules we make are in a proper and fair balance. That is why, of course, we look forward to further discussions with both the Left and other parties on the issues and other issues linked to the reforms that have been carried out over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150434	The next question is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150439	Thank you for that, President. I should just like to ask the Minister a question about those who have less than six years back to retirement age. There you can apply for a senior pension if you have a working capacity of less than 15 hours, and we have set that up to 171⁄2 hours or something in later negotiations. In relation to those who are abandoned by the government, it says that there is no future in the labour market for those who have six years back to the age of retirement, why can they not then per. do you have a rapid clarification in relation to a senior pension or early retirement pension or flexible job in this regard? Why do they have to go six years until their retirement age? Could it not just as well be said: when there is no future for you in the labour market, it is because you have such a low working capacity that you need a quick clarification?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150542	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150544	Well, well, well, sir. Bent Bøgsted has to see it as a relief. The proposal is actually intended such a way of meeting seniors who are in this situation. It must of course be seen as a form of guarantee of clarification, saying that if you have less than 6 years of age until retirement age, you cannot be forced into a process of resource development. This is an element of which there has been a great deal of criticism. On the other hand, the municipality must assess the citizen and the citizen's case with a view to either flex jobs, early retirement or another effort, and there will also be some citizens who, if they meet the criteria, will be able to be granted senior pensions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150630	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150633	Well, there's nothing in it about the municipality giving them a clarification as to whether they can get a senior pension or an early retirement pension. It says that the citizen can have a programme of resources if he or she wants it, so he or she can have a programme of resources, and that for three years. Why does it not say that the municipalities should provide those who have less than six years left and who have no future in the labour market with a quick clarification for senior pensions or flex jobs or ordinary early retirement? It doesn't say anything about the municipalities. If that is the Minister's intention, then the Minister should write directly in the bill that this is what the municipalities have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150711	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150717	So, first of all, it is because it is the municipalities that assess the individual citizen's case, and we must primarily make rules that provide the municipalities with tools to assess with the citizen what is best. The reason why we have chosen to say that we should not be forced into resource cycles six years before retirement age is that resource cycles are, of course, a tool, and I believe, basically, that this is a good tool when it works and is used properly, to bring citizens closer to either the labour market, education or something else. And there we have said that it is not necessary to do so when there is such a short period of time until it is actually intended to end your working life. So there is a need to assess the citizen and finally clarify the citizen at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150756	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150800	Thank you. I understood the answer to Mr. Hans Andersen, that there are imminent negotiations in the conciliation circle and in particular on flexible jobs and such things, and then I would like to ask whether the Minister is interested in getting input from outside the conciliation circle in relation to such an improvement in the future arrangements. I heard a whole chain of improvements that would happen in a short time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150826	Me and the government are always interested in input. These are, of course, discussions and discussions that I have had with, among others. The Enhedslisten of some laps, and what I say must be heard in the best possible way. After all, there is always a gain and a cost of taking part in a settlement, and the prize can come just when you enter into the settlement, as well as the cost can occur shortly after, but the prize comes when it is that the reconciliations have to be taken up again and you have the opportunity to make improvements, just as the cost also turns out if you are outside the settlement. That is why I am also extremely pleased that the Enhedslisten is taking part in more and more conciliation since the last parliamentary elections, because it also allows the Enhedslisten to participate in the ongoing discussions and improvements that are in a number of areas and not only to look for input, as Mrs Jette Gottlieb calls it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150932	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420150937	In other words, the Minister confirms a little what I said in my rapporteur's speech that the Minister is clearly one of the people who does not whistle on the day he speaks his mouth. When do we get on with the flex job part of it? I mean, we've been forever getting here where we are today. So, as I said in my speech, we stood there in May 2018 and made an improvement and agreed with each other more or less that we should do the rest by the end of 2018, and now we are standing here 3 years later and only today. That is why I am a little worried when the Minister's answer to the question of when the flex job is going on is: well, that one time in the course of the year. Could we get a little closer? Before 1 May we will not be able to achieve it, but can we at least be able to do so before the summer vacation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420151016	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420151018	I have respect for Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge's impatience, but Mr. Karsten Hønge is also well aware of the answer to why the whole process of resource development was dragged out and postponed, and why we have not at this stage planned the exact date when we call for discussions. That is because the entire central administration, in particular the Ministry of Employment, with all the many schemes, aid measures and challenges that have been and, as I know Mr. Karsten Hønge is very, very aware of, in the whole area of labour market policy, has been laid down by the global pandemic, which puts the whole world down. It's just to be honest, it's what's been going on a whole range of different courses that were otherwise planned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420151105	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420151107	Yes, yes, it is clear that we are always under pressure from one and the other, and at the moment there is considerable pressure from corona. I just think that we are dealing here with some of the sick, the vulnerable and the vulnerable, and when we talk about the flex-job part, which is the next part we are going to start with, we are also faced with the possibility of being able to provide more labour to some companies. So everything's gonna talk about us getting started. Well, Minister, I'm just nervous that we're gonna end up in the same dryer as we've been in the last three years, just driving around all the time and talking about how we're gonna do something about that resource cycle. It's incomprehensible, as many years have passed. Well, I guess it took many months up to May 2018, before we adopted it, and now it's been three years. So, Minister, you have to whistle the day you tip your mouth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420151147	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420151149	Well, first of all, sir. Karsten Hønge can't blame this government or my person for the fact that many months went by that there were some improvements in 2018. On the other hand, I would like to say that we can attribute this to both the then government and probably to Mr Gundelach. Karsten Hønge's commitment that some of the improvements are also one of the reasons why people are being clarified more quickly, why we can see that more people, like all of them, are also entitled to this claim, being granted early retirement, according to today's history in the media.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420151223	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. No one else has asked for the floor, and that means that the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420151239	This resolution has emerged from a citizens' proposal. The debate is open and the first speaker is the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420151257	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to start by thanking the initiators of the citizens' proposal, and I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament who have chosen to table it as a resolution. It is, of course, always an expression of a healthy democratic culture that we must discuss today an issue which concerns many Danes. The citizens' proposal is about the absence of parents when they need to stay at home to care for their child in the event of general acute illness. The proposers want to introduce a Swedish model scheme in which parents have the right to stay at home until their child is healthy again. Parents are not paid during the period of absence, but compensation equal to 80%. of the daily allowance rate. I therefore have a great deal of sympathy with the intention of the proposal, and I also very much recognise that children need care when they are ill. I am also fully aware that for some parents it can be difficult to get the ends to reach together in a busy everyday life when the children suddenly get sick. I think everyone with kids can recognize it. Unlike what is mentioned in the citizens' proposal, we do not actually have a legally guaranteed right to the child's first sick day in Denmark. On the other hand, with the Danish model, we have a long tradition that wages and working conditions are negotiated and established by the social partners. The Danish model is a cornerstone of our society and a major reason why we have a well-functioning and flexible labour market for the benefit of both employees and companies. This also means that the right to absenteeism during children's illness is regulated by the parties to collective agreements or individual agreements. This is not something we politicians have a tradition of interfering in. In some agreements parents are entitled to both the first and the second day of illness, and many are also entitled to pay during absence. In addition, many collective agreements contain different rights of absence with or without pay. It can, for example, be done. be care days for young children, other unpaid leave or any other form of flexibility. In addition, many local workers have the opportunity, in agreement with the employer, to use flexible hours, homework, time off, holidays and absences without pay. The starting point for collective and local agreements is absence when your child is affected by general acute illness. If, on the other hand, your child is seriously ill for a long time, there are already schemes where parents are able to stay at home and receive a benefit while caring for their sick child. Parents can, for example: Under the legislation on maternity benefits, a seriously ill child is taken care of. A Swedish model scheme proposed in the citizens' proposal would require us to introduce a legislative right to absenteeism in the event of a child's illness. It basically violates the principles of the Danish model, which is why it is, in principle, a political question whether we want to introduce a legislative right and thus as a consequence break with the Danish labour market model, which we have been safeguarding for more than 100 years, and which has proved to be one of the most effective tools for ensuring high wages and good working conditions. I have the utmost respect for the Danish model, and this has only been confirmed during the Corona crisis, where the model has been able to find solutions to the challenges that have constantly arisen. And the whole of our labour market model, I think at least, is best served by the fact that we politicians do not interfere in wage and working conditions in a timely and premature manner. The several times a majority in the Danish Parliament considers that the Danish model cannot solve the challenges that arise on an ongoing basis, the more difficult it will be for the current government to defend the model at all times. If we create uncertainty about our own support for the whole principle that it is up to the parties, i.e. employees and employers, to negotiate pay and working conditions, we are quietly in the process of dismantling the model rather than developing it. So far, I have only focused on the risk of weakening the Danish model if you start to legislate on something that the parties usually take care of. But that is not the only reason why the government cannot support the resolution. This is also linked to the immediate economic consequences of the proposal. It is not quite clear from the citizens' proposal how the proposed system will actually be implemented. That is, for example, the case. unclear which groups of persons are to be covered by the scheme and how the compensation scheme is to be financed. The estimate of the economic consequences is therefore linked to a number of uncertainties. However, it is assumed that the scheme will be used to the same extent as in Sweden, it is estimated to entail direct expenditure on daily allowances of approximately 2.2 billion. kr. annual. If the consequences are taken into account, there will be expenditure of approximately 2.7 billion. kr. annual. The estimate does not take into account the costs that many employers currently have to pay during the illness of a child, but it nevertheless gives an indication of the amount of expenditure involved in the resolution. If we implement the proposal, it will either entail considerable expenditure for the state of 2.7 billion. kr. or require us to impose potential costs on the parties for financing the scheme, to which they normally agree themselves. So let me just pick up right here in the end: I can understand the intentions of the proposal, and it is certainly not always easy to be a baby parent, not at all when the children get sick. Fortunately, Danish employees already have good opportunities to stay at home to care for their sick children by agreement or individual agreements. There is already an arrangement if you have a seriously ill child. If we are to implement the citizens' proposal, it will, first of all, break basically with the Danish model, and that is not a way the government wants to go, and secondly, it will entail considerable costs, and who will then pay the bill if necessary? The government cannot therefore support the proposal. We do not want to introduce a regulated right to absenteeism in connection with illness. We want the parties themselves to agree on pay and working conditions, as they have done in the most distinguished way over many, many years. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420151929	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420151934	I would like to ask the Minister if he can confirm that in various areas of labour market problems there is a fluid boundary between legislation and contract substance. Let us think of an example as a holiday law, or for example. OSH law and other similar places where it has been seen as a social task to solve problems which could not be readily seen to be solved by the social partners. We can also mention equal pay in a parentheses here in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152005	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152008	Well, in general terms, I can confirm that there is always an interaction between legislation and the agreements that are in the labour market. But Mrs Jette Gottlieb must also, I hope at least, admit that, in relation to a large number of collective agreements and individual agreements that are on the labour market today, there are already those opportunities. That is the first, and secondly: there have been some employees who have gone to negotiations, whether collectively or individually, with the requirement to their employer that what they will demand in relation to a possible increase in wages was to have further freedom, whether it is if their children become ill or if they are other forms of absenteeism with pay. And that means that the individual employee, or the collective, has given priority to that improvement. And I just think it is very, very important that we keep in mind all the time; that someone has already paid in negotiations, so to speak, to get the right that the citizens' proposal is now proposing to make a legal right paid by the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152109	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152111	Yes, but is it not true that if, as a result of changes in society, it is increasingly seen as a social task to solve a particular problem, then there is good reason to create some form of legal basis as a basis for subsequent negotiations on the conditions between the social partners?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152129	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152132	We are always interested in supporting the social development that exists, including by the government, and to be open to various things. However, I would just like to express my reservations as to whether this particular issue is and is such that the parties cannot resolve it themselves. I believe that the parties themselves are already doing a very large amount of work today. I think you can look at it, I think, very important security-building aid arrangements that we made in terms of giving access to maternity benefit if you had sick children in connection with corona, or children who had been in close contact, which has not been a major feature of the fact that these things are already working today in the labour market, and therefore there is no need for legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152216	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. The first rapporteur in the line of apologies, I cannot just ask the Minister to groom the platform, and thank you for that is Mr. Henrik Møller of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152242	Thank you. First of all, of course, I must say that on the part of the Social Democrats we also agree very much with the Minister, not surprisingly, and in the remarks made here by the Minister. I think that one of the things that is at least in relation to the last one that was mentioned is that we do not have anything. So, the discussion was a little bit, whether there should be legislation or not to legislate in this area. And the starting point is that we do not have anything, but that solutions have actually been made in the labour market exactly around this, both with caring days and children's sick days. I do not know whether this is a dilemma, but a rather special situation we face, I think. We in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have now, in two stages, had a discussion on minimum wages in relation to a directive from the European Union and, most recently, we have had a discussion on transparency in relation to pay differences between men and women, in other words a kind of equal pay directive. Where we can well say that we have spent a great deal of resources trying to tell the European Union that this is not something we are very excited about turning into a directive because we do not want legislation to be implemented here because we have a system in which the social partners themselves are able to reach agreements about it. And this is kind of the opposite, where they say that this is where they think that the government should now introduce legislation and a right in relation to this. And I would say there is the same answer on the part of the Social Democrats: we very much believe that this is a question of the social partners having to find and make agreements in this very area. Of course, we think that a citizen's proposal is commendable, and it can be said that it is also good for the debate. But I think it's important that we have the Danish model where the social partners make agreements about things that we, I think, regularly and continuously discuss these limits in relation to what should be legislation and what should be agreements. I agree, as has also been said, that it is not black and white. After all, there are also some elements where there is legislation on this. However, as the Minister very clearly stated, it is not a wish that we, on the part of the Social Democrats, at least have that we have legislation in this area. So we in the Social Democratic Party cannot therefore support the citizens' proposal and, as I said, this is because we support the Danish working model, which we think is a cornerstone and a prerequisite for this strong and flexible labour market that we have in Denmark. However, I would, of course, like to acknowledge the authors of the motion for a resolution in order to contribute to the democratic debate. But the Social Democrats cannot vote in favour. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152547	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152550	I would then like to ask whether it is a mistake that there is actually legislation to ensure that you can have duty-free or be exempted from your work on the first day of illness of the child in the event of the child's acute illness. Is it a mistake, then, that such legislation has been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152608	No, not immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152611	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152614	But can we not say that there is a relatively long leap between a child's first day of illness and what is called the long-term care of a seriously ill child? Is it not the case that a great many children could be ill for 2 days or 3 days, or perhaps even 4 days, and that perhaps this is where we need new solutions because of the social development that has taken place over the last 50 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152643	In fact, I did not mention in my introduction that, in addition to the discussion on the labour market model, on which there is a little debate right now between the two of us, there is also the economic aspect. In other words, there is an economic bill here where there has to be a priority in relation to it, and it has to be said that, together with all the other elements and wishes that exist, and together with the attitude to the labour market model, but also to economics, it is not the right thing to do, at least in the Social Democrats' list of priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152716	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420152732	Thank you. I understand that there are people who want a better opportunity to be there for their boy or girl if he or she has become ill. For everyone with children knows how difficult it can be in everyday life to get things together. Last summer we also had a discussion and the social partners had a discussion on finding a solution to the parents of children who had been infected or had been close to contact and had been repatriated, and we found a solution in the extraordinary situation, and we have, of course, together extended that model until 1 July. We welcome that. We are in an extraordinary situation where a great many parents and children have been frustrated and have sought solutions. However, when we talk about this issue in general, it is the social partners who negotiate not only wages but also working conditions in the Danish labour market, including the opportunities for caring for children in the event of illness, and the Danish model, as we call it daily, has dealt with such wishes and flexibility in collective bargaining for decades. And when and if there is a great desire among employees to ensure better conditions for parents with children's illness, then I am quite sure that the professional organisations are aware of this and want to put that wish and demand through in collective bargaining, and we have seen historically that better conditions have been created in collective bargaining, including for parents with sick children. After all, in some agreements it is both a right to the first and second day of the child's illness, and it is also about other possibilities of flexibility • the Minister for Employment mentioned a number of them. And I still have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that there are people, families who want an even greater flexibility and a better opportunity to help, and I would then like to have a clear call for one to go to one's trade union and to make the request, and I am quite sure that the professional organisations are listening. Because that is what they are set up in the world for, that is to say, to listen to their members and their wishes, and we are here with a citizens' proposal which has received very strong support, and I believe that the professional organisations have taken note of this and are listening to it. And I believe and I hope that the Danish model will then also show its strength, as it has done historically, and which I also believe it should do forward-looking, and that in the forthcoming negotiations on agreements there will be better conditions for parents with sick children, better opportunities for you to be at home when the child is sick, and you are not forced to find many creative solutions • and I know that they are out there • but that in the agreements you create even more security about having a sick child. So it's our approach to this citizen's proposal that we believe that the Danish model and the professional organisations can find solutions that also meet the wishes of this citizen's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420153229	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420153252	Thank you for that, President. We have this motion for a resolution or a motion for a resolution on the right to the care of sick children in the event of general illness. This has caused major problems for parents for many years when they need to find out how to take care of their children when they are ill. If you don't have the network that's going to take care of you if you don't have some grandparents or any other family nearby that can take care of your child, then you have a problem. You are entitled to the child's first day of illness • some are entitled to two sick days; it is a little different depending on the agreement you are under. In public it is always two days you are entitled to, and if you are then a couple, it is four of the child's sick days in one year that you have the right to take. The proposers then also write that there are many who themselves have to report sick to care for the child. Is it an advantage that they themselves have to report ill? Could it not just as well be said that if they go home anyway and report sick and go on sickness benefit, they could have the right to withdraw a few days from the benefit system? I have no evidence of how many people report sick, but it is the authors who write here that people report sick. I think it is a little inappropriate, as the system has been set up today, and I think that the Minister should have a talk with the employers and the parties about how this system has been set up. Of course we should not go in and push through the agreements, but you could take and look a little more seriously at such a great desire from a large number of citizens who have signed a citizens' proposal and see if you could adapt in a more modern way. I fully understand the system in Sweden where 80% can be obtained. If the child is taken care of at home, the benefit improves conditions in such a way that the children are not sent away earlier than is necessary if they are ill. They can take in and infect others, where parents will then have to take a few days at home. And we just have to remember that although there is a network, it is by no means everyone who has a network that they can draw on. I know more people who have their grandparents in, for example. North Jutland, where I am from, but they may live in Copenhagen or in Aarhus or in Odense. They can't just pull on the grandparents. They can't just draw on siblings, because they may also live far away. They don't have a network. Yeah, they have some friends, but they're also in the labour market. They don't have a network that can step in and help care for the children, and then they are in that situation: what am I supposed to do with little Peter or little Lise who is sick? Should I then choose to send them to kindergarten or crèche while they are sick, or should I say that I am sick myself and then stay home? This is a dilemma faced by many parents. I think that such an approach, which comes here in the citizens' proposal, requires the Minister to take it seriously and say: let us look at whether there are any possibilities for us to change the way we have organized ourselves in Denmark in the labour market, and then have a talk with the social partners about whether something can be changed about this. Of course, it should not be the case that you can just take 30, 40, 50 sick days at home; it is not at all that, and that is not what the citizens' proposal wants. However, if you have someone who is ill it may be the flu that the child has received, or it may be other diseases that have been given it is desired that you have the opportunity to be at home and take care of the child. I think it deserves a little respect that they bring this. Therefore, in the Danish People's Party, we invite the Minister to take a look at this, to have a talk with the social partners about whether there are any opportunities to help the parents who are in trouble in this regard. Of course, employers do not have to pay. That is not what has been proposed. Then the minister says that the state will not have to pay if it is 80%. of the daily allowance they draw on the daily allowance system. However, approx. 50% is a self-payment to the benefit system. Perhaps you could be helpful in that way, for example. By granting parents the right to take 5 days of sickness benefit to 80%. of the benefit. It was an opportunity and a step in that direction. But I will leave it to the Minister to take that talk to the social partners about whether there is a possibility of finding a sensible solution to help these parents who are in trouble.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420153804	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ina Strejer-Schmidt from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420153823	SF has been working for a long time to enable parents to hold more of the child's sick days. The sick days of the few children are a problem because children are often not healthy after 1-2 days, as most agreements allow. A broad study among several occupational groups has shown that the few children's sick days are the greatest challenge in terms of making family and working life coherent. It's stressful for parents to deliver sick children. At least once a week, about one in three employees in daily offers find that sick children are delivered. This is both problematic because sick children must have the opportunity to recover before they are sent out and because children infect other children and staff. The problem has not been solved in the collective bargaining process. That is why the parties in the Folketing need to find a solution. In the SF we certainly support the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420153920	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420153936	Thank you very much. I would like to start by thanking the authors and signatories of the citizens' proposal here. This shows the good that these citizens' proposals can do, namely to be an extra thing for democracy and also to put some things on the agenda in this Chamber. In the Radical Left, we understand very well that parents want to care for their sick children. I myself have faced the situation a sea of times, and I still have children in kindergarten. But I must also say that in the Danish model there is that it is the social partners who are negotiating these conditions, among other things. better conditions for parents with sick children. That is why I must also say that the Radical Left cannot support the citizens' proposal as it is here. I think that an interesting reference in the citizens' text is the reference to the Swedish model. In fact, I am very curious about this myself, even after having followed up on whether it might have led in Sweden to lower sick leave if there are children who have been kept at home instead of being sent to day care and thus have not infected other children. Because if that is the case, it could be that there was an employer's interest in making such an agreement. In any case, I can support my colleague from the Left. Hans Andersen in confidence in the unions in raising this agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420154124	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420154143	The Enhedslisten seems, and it is hopefully not a great surprise that sick children should be cared for and cared for until they are healthy. That is why we also support the resolution and consider it a social task to ensure that we find solutions to the problems. However, there are many things to note in connection with a proposal like this. What makes such a proposal even necessary? After all, it is our social structure that has changed. All the good arguments mentioned in the proposal's comments explain some of the changes since women entered the labour market. Before that, it was a matter of course that the mother cared for a sick child. Since then, developments have provoked several changes. It began to become a necessity that the concept of sick child was included in the agreements. Most agreements today have a right to pay on the first day of illness, and since then there has been legislation on the right to absence from work on the first day of illness. So if we take the next steps today, it will bring great improvements for the child and for the conditions of children's families. We are also aware, of course, that there is a certain tendency for existing collective agreements to draw genderally wrong. After all, it is not entirely by chance in which agreements have been agreed on entitlement to the first day of illness and which agreements have resulted in entitlement to the first and second day of sickness. One can try to guess which agreements are most women's. After all, the prerequisite for a number of years of working with the first and second day of illness has been that it has been possible for parents to obtain help from outside. The most discussed and used has been the grandparents' solution. We have heard various arguments in the past as to why it does not work so well, but one of the arguments is that if they do not live in the same part of the country, it is not quite that easy. But we must also be aware that other social changes have taken place here. Today, the grandparents are typically at work, and I have heard very serious collective agreements of the type: grandson's first day of illness. One researcher has explained that the changes that have taken place in the development of our family structure have led to the fact that we now have more and more in the four-generation family. The most excited generation is the second generation. There are high expectations that they will look after their old parents, but also that they will stay longer and longer at work and that they will run if they have sick grandchildren. And it is impossible to deal with such versatile demands, and that is why this proposal is appropriate. After all, children are not always sick for just one or two days, and solutions must be found for this. The proposal is good, but there is a lack of practical form. This requires an organisational solution to be found. This may be in parallel with the Swedish model, as the citizens' proposal itself proposes. Under no circumstances, however, can it be transferred directly • the money does not exactly fall from the sky and would require major changes in our benefit system. Another solution could be to parallel the arrangements that exist in the form of maternity funds there was perhaps something to work on. Then, of course, the second major problem is that there is a lack of relevant funding. I would therefore like to put a number of questions in the two areas in connection with the committee's work on the proposal. And then I hope that the very fact that the issue has been raised in the way it is and I would also like to point out that this citizen's proposal is the citizen's proposal that has gathered most signatures in very short time, which suggests that the problem is more present than one should immediately expect if one sits here and does not think you have the problem yourself. We support the proposal, but believe that a great deal is missing in its practical form, and we are very ready to ask questions that might promote a few proposals for solutions or improvements to the current situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420154543	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420154546	Thank you. I would just like to ask Enhedslisten whether the Enhedslisten does not agree with me that the trade union organisations here have a crucial role to play in guaranteeing employees' rights and, above all, the right to stay at home if your child is ill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420154619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420154621	Yes, I do. I very much agree with that is a proposal that can be discussed as an agreement proposal, which is why I am also amused by the fact that serious proposals have in fact been made about grandson's first day of illness by means of collective agreements. It has never enjoyed it, I would add. But I am certainly of the opinion that some of the problems can be solved by agreement, but I also believe that we need to ensure that there is a social basis for it to be an agreement proposal that benefits from the promotion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420154650	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420154652	Does the Enhedslisten not recognise that, if we are to ensure that employees actually continue to support the trade union organisations, it is absolutely essential that rights such as these should be respected. to have the right to stay at home if the children are ill, are rights that have been negotiated and won through collective bargaining and that this is how we must ensure that the Danish model continues to live? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420154734	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420154735	Yes, Enhedslisten is very much in agreement with the way we ensure the Danish model continues to live, but there is still a gap between a legal basis and foundation and the interaction between it and the agreements that are made. In the public sector alone, we are in the situation where, in principle, it is we who are employers, and that is to say, it could be imagined that in the public sector the initiative had been taken in the recent or almost completed collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420154801	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420154818	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. It is a proposal which contains a great many good intentions and elements that we can only welcome for debate. Have we screwed up our system properly? What will our new everyday life on the other side of the pandemic show? And how do we develop the labour market as we become healthier and more digital? Of course, it is untenable for both children, parents and employers when children are sent half-sick, as they may get sick again more quickly, infected others or called home, so that parents have to leave work in the middle of it all. Here too, early action is important. Other countries have organised it in other ways, and it is exciting to see what we can learn from it. Having said that, I can reveal that we in the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal as it stands here. There are, among other things: large unanswered questions about the economy: what will it cost? If this had been a proposal put forward by a party, that very question would have already been asked a few times. I'm pretty sure. It is not an insignificant unknown which we need to look at. At the same time, it is also important to learn from the covid-19 pandemic and the developments that we as the labour market are in as a result. For example, I find it difficult to imagine that in the future all employees in the large Office Denmark will be in the office 5 days a week. When you are sick, you are sick, and of course that also applies to children. However, I have great respect for the fact that in the vast majority of cases the individual employee and his/her workplace themselves structure and plan how to manage the child's sick days. As I began with, this is an important debate and the timing is good, but we cannot support the proposal in this form and look forward to further discussions on the area and on the economy as it stands. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420155102	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420155117	Thank you. We are discussing a citizens' proposal on the right to look after your child when it is sick for a long time, and basically it is not something you should be able to oppose. But the question is: where are these decisions to be made in this area? Should they be taken from in here at the heart of the Folketing, which is to impose a wide range of detailed management of the labour market, or should it be extended to the social partners? We basically take the view that the politicians from in here in the Folketing decide a great deal and far too much about the lives of the citizens in advance, and this is what we think is best for the social partners. I understand the wish, and I would recommend that all the people who have supported this being dealt with should also take it to where they are now represented, whether individually in the individual company or through the trade union movement in other areas, and bring this desire into the collective bargaining that must be. It seems to me that the wish can be quite valid. And if you look at Sweden, they have just introduced a system which may perhaps in some areas remind you of what could be done according to the proposal, and in other areas it is somewhat like something where you have run it under some form of benefit scheme and joint insurance. But I do not think that this is the way to bring tax dollars into what is administered in here. So if a solution can be found where employers and workers can agree that they actually want to make such a scheme and give parents that opportunity and a much greater flexibility, then surely we should not stand in the way of them introducing it from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420155259	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. No one else has asked to speak and the negotiations have been concluded. I therefore propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed. The next point concerns the Minister for Justice, who is not present, so we are waiting for the Minister for Justice to materialise. There comes the Minister of Justice as called!
ParlaMint-DK_20210420155315	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus from the Social Democratic Party, no, the rapporteur is Henrik Møller. Well, well, well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420155412	Thank you for the floor, President. It is a well-known problem that the duration of the proceedings in criminal proceedings is dragging on and that the case piles are growing to an incalculable extent, leaving a great many victims without any clarification. This is an untenable situation which is of great importance to both the wrongdoer, the accused and the accused, as well as to the possibility of solving a crime and, ultimately, to the sense of legal certainty in society. That is why we are today dealing with a legislative proposal which, through eight interventions, aims to facilitate proceedings in criminal matters, so that prosecution is carried out quickly and consistently. The first initiative is to strengthen the requirement to provide evidence when the defendant is absent from the hearing. As is the case today, the defendant in criminal proceedings must simply state the reason for his absence, but with the proposal here it will be a requirement that the defendant can prove the cause and, for example, the accused will be able to document illness as a reason for failure to provide a medical certificate. This is an initiative that we in the Social Democratic Party support because it helps to ensure that the prosecution and the courts do not use unnecessary resources and that cases are not dragged out because the defendant does not appear in court. The second initiative is that it should be possible for the court to reject the defendant's appeal if the defendant does not appear before the proceedings. This is another initiative on the part of the Social Democrats. We think it is reasonable that there is a requirement that the accused himself take part in the proceedings when he himself has wished to appeal. The third initiative is to increase access to judgments given in default and decisions given in default. The proposal extends the right of the court to promote certain criminal proceedings to a judgment even if the defendant is not present in the proceedings. The initiative will also allow the court to obtain information on the personal relationships of the accused for the purposes of mental examination, the accused of which cannot legally document the reason for his absence. We also support this initiative, as the proposal will help to ensure that the prosecution and the courts do not use unnecessary resources because the defendant does not appear in court. Of course, we think that is quite reasonable. The fourth initiative is a proposal for the possibility of digital service of judgments in default. With the proposal here, the notification of judgments given in default without the consent of the defendants exceeds from having to be given in person to be able to be served digitally in a simplified manner. In other words, in future, the prosecution will be able to send notification of the reversal of indictment or indictment by Digital Post or registered letter. Of course, we in the Social Democratic Party welcome the fact that we are taking advantage of digital development and effectively and similarly inform the accused of the reversal of the matter. The fifth initiative is a proposal to allow for several digital hearings in cases where no defender or assistance lawyer or lawyer has been appointed for the action. In these cases, the proposal in future will allow the prosecutor to attend the hearing on video with image and audio. This is also something we welcome, and we do so, as hearings of this kind are usually conducted only with a representative of the Public Prosecutor and a judge. We believe that it is sensible for us to make such cases more effective by taking advantage of digital development. The sixth initiative is an amendment to the rules on the aggregation and reduction of criminal proceedings. It is basically about the fact that an indictment for new and less crime should not be able to delay major criminal proceedings, on the one hand, by giving the court and the prosecution a better opportunity to cut off new situations for criminal proceedings already planned, so that there is no aggregation of cases that will help delay the case, and, on the other hand, by allowing the prosecution to be extended to restrict criminal proceedings for resource reasons, when it is not possible for the accused to be judged or for a negligible additional sentence to be imposed. In fact, we think it makes sense to shield cases in order to pull out unnecessarily because the defendant continues to commit new crimes. With this proposal, particularly large cases will not be complicated to the same extent by several minor offences. So to the seventh, and I hope you're still with us: this initiative is about ensuring better use of resources in the use of laity judges. Today it is already the case that criminal proceedings relating to serious drug crimes and serious enrichment crimes are exempted from jury and judge treatment. With this proposal, cases of serious doping and laundering of a particularly serious nature should also be exempted from juror treatment, since the evidence in these cases must be comprehensive and lengthy and relate to complex matters. In the Social Democratic Party there is support for ensuring better use of resources in relation to the use of lay judges by exempting certain categories of criminal proceedings which, based on experience from practice, are less suitable for the treatment of judges and jury. Finally, and perhaps the most controversial, the eighth and final initiative, which is the suggestion that if an accused person is absent from a hearing without being able to prove a valid reason, yes, he may only receive public service at a minimum level equivalent to self-reliance, return and transitional benefit for a period of 12 weeks, and that is only in cases where the defendant has failed in criminal proceedings from a hearing without valid evidence and the court has taken a decision on arrest in the case. This reduction in benefits is, of course, expected to be an appreciable consequence for the defendant, without, however, having a lasting effect on his welfare. It was the eight initiatives that would make criminal proceedings more effective, which is a fundamental prerequisite in a well-functioning legal society. In the Social Democratic Party, we welcome the bill, which can help to ensure that from a crime to the punishment of the guilty person is reduced as much as possible, and that the resources of the police and prosecutors and courts are used effectively and appropriately. That is why we are happy to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160033	Thank you to the rapporteur. The first brief remark goes to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160039	Thank you for the floor. In fact, I agree that there are a lot of good initiatives in this draft law. They are all mostly good, but there is one that I am a little worried about, and that is what is about taking benefits from people if they do not show up. I wouldn't say we shouldn't do that. Maybe I'd just like to call in some evidence that it's gonna work. So there are some studies or other behind this that show that it makes people show up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160110	I don't think that necessarily does, but what we know at least somewhere is that a great deal of resources are being spent on missing persons in our legal system in relation to this, and it can be said that in this case there is a little consequence for some of those who are helping to create some of these expenses. But I am not aware of any scientific basis for this, but you can then evaluate this scheme to see what the consequences have been after a period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160143	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160145	Well, I am actually really sorry to hear that, because that means that we may have to take the benefits from some people and that we do not even know if it will work. What is my concern in this is, with my knowledge of some of the people who appear in court and who we sometimes put in prison, that there are just a lot of those who have an abuse, have mental disorders and really have a bad track of their calendar, e-Boks and everything, and where it may not be a conscious act. I agree that those who do so consciously and do not consciously exist too, but I am really concerned that we are taking the money from some people who really have a very, very difficult life in advance and making it even more miserable for them. Does the rapporteur share that concern and what does the rapporteur think we can do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160231	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160232	Someone once said that you can't cut off a bald hair, and that's kind of what compared to some people who, in terms of resources, might have some problems. I think I should refer to what was my answer before and where it has to be said that today, unfortunately, there are a great many resources being spent on people who do not show up. However, as I have said, I think I made a commitment to evaluating this and then perhaps looking at what might lie for the group that unwittingly comes into this, in relation to aid opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160306	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160311	Thank you. I think I'll start by continuing in Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt's lead. The rapporteur said that there is absolutely no scientific evidence that reducing benefits for people has an impact on whether they appear in court or not. If it does not have a meaning and thus does not have an effect on the fact that they appear and the matter can therefore be dealt with, why do you actually support that proposal, so that you know in advance that it has no effect? Isn't it stupid to make actions that have no effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160346	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160351	I think it's an insult to say that we know it doesn't have an effect. I say that there is no documented basis for this. In other words, we have a clear presumption in relation to the legislative proposal here, that it is actually going to work and that it is going to have an effect. That is why the proposal has been tabled. So it's kind of a distortion to say there's evidence that it doesn't work. At least it's not something I know about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160413	Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160415	Then I would also like to ask what has to do with the amendment of Article 748a of the Code of Procedure, namely the increased use of telecommunications in order to obtain judicial orders through coercive measures. The city courts themselves say that this could lead to an extension of the procedure and the risk of errors in the decisions. Isn't that something that the Socialists want to help poke out when the judges so clearly say no to this action?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160443	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160443-2	It is clear that it must be included in the committee's proceedings, which are about this. Anyway, I think that right now under the corona we have shown that in the digital world you can actually do some efficiency, that you can do something a little easier about this. We are open to discussing it, but we have the expectation that it will actually provide greater efficiency in these cases, where the same parties are involved in the talk anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160518	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420160538	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur, who has, in a very fine way, gone over the details of this bill, and then we do not need to repeat it all. I can say in general terms that the draft law has to do with the fact that the courts are incredibly pressured. The courts are under pressure in criminal proceedings, one in three bikers sitting in jail yesterday for the President, so I must not say that today is a prison, and this is most often done after a lengthy juror case which has taken over the courts. However, we should not forget the civil cases, because they are so masculinely dealt with at the moment, so you think that is a lie, and this often means that the creditor gives up the claim or goes into arbitration and gets very expensive treatment without appeal and so on. etc. So we have to look at the courts and we have to see what can be done on this point. We need to consider the resources that need to be provided to the courts, and I certainly do not wish to deny that it is possible to add further, but let us now look at the simplifications that exist, among other things. In this. And here we've got the Justice Department's offer, and it's an incredible lot of changes, and how much they run up in time is hard to predict here. I also believe, but I am not quite sure, and perhaps the Minister for Justice can answer that the Board of Law has been set up and has to make their proposals for revising the civil rules. In any case, I can say that any proposal will be kissed from in here if we can simplify the system in any way. As far as the individual proposals are concerned, I will not repeat them, as I have said, since our colleagues have run through them, but I would like to say in general terms that I think the overall proposal bears the stamp of greater respect for the courts, and in this respect I would like to highlight three different points. First of all, the disease is the reinforced documentation requirement. It is quite crazy how sick people get when they go to court, and I can say quite frankly that to a certain extent one can suspect that it is skipping under the circumstances that the day may bring. So that the Ministry makes a proposal to try to contain it, I can only welcome it. Secondly, it is the absence of cases which have been appealed to the Court of Justice. That is the case today, if it is a question of the length of the penalty, then the case must be conducted even if the appellant has not stayed, and that is quite crazy, so it is also being lifted now. If you don't, the city court sentence will be in effect. The third element, which is perhaps the most radical, if that term is to be used, is the reduction in benefits. I must stress that this is a situation in which the case cannot be furthered if the defendant does not appear, it is a situation in which the judge gives an arrest decision, and in this situation the paying authority can bring down all the various benefits mentioned in the draft law, and it is many, to the level of integration benefit. These are serious things, which is why I hope that this is something that will clearly and loudly relate to the preaching work, in connection with the summons to the hearing. Now it says what situations one might be convicted of not having been, but at least it is also necessary to clarify here what serious consequences a failure to do so may have in terms of benefits. Last but not least, as there were questions from the Chamber about, there has been some criticism of the Court of Justice in relation to the use of telecommunications in certain cases. Those are telecommunications in the case of warrants and search warrants and seizure orders, etc., and I understand that in future it is more or less up to the police to decide whether this hearing should take place on video. I can only say that with the strong protest from the judges, as can be seen in the hearings, there is something that might suggest that it is a good idea to retain this right from the judge, who must preside over the hearing, so that it is the judge who decides, as today, whether this or that hearing can be decided on video. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420161044	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why after some cleaning we can move on to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420161112	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we warmly support a more flexible judicial process, because this is so much needed. Today, far too long has elapsed, from crime to judicial conviction. In this context, we need to find places in the system where time can be saved. This applies, among other things, to: the problem that perpetrators, by not appearing in court, are putting their cases all the way to the absurd. We need more sanctions in this area so that we can minimise our absence. At the same time, it is time for us to get rulings more quickly and, at the same time, to spend less resources on setting up a case which must then be postponed, just as it has to be started, because it does not appear in court. In the Danish People's Party we therefore support the proposal, but we would like to examine it further at committee reading with a view to possible tightenings. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420161216	We say thank you, too. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420161243	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Minister for presenting the proposal here. These are, of course, largely a number of sensible proposals. The proposal seeks to address a little the plug in the system that has arisen in the courts, where the deadlines are now in 2022. It is, of course, not sustainable, and therefore it is also positive that we do something about it. Timely and effective judicial proceedings are, of course, of crucial importance to the wrongdoers, to witnesses and to the accused, but also to the general sense of justice of the citizens. In the SF, of course, we would like to help address these problems which the proposal is aimed at, and we can also see ourselves in the vast majority of elements included in the proposal. However, we are of the opinion that, although most of the elements of the proposal are good, we may not be able to escape the fact that we also need to discuss more economy in the courts, in other words more resources. After all, we tried to get it into the police conciliation, but without much success; the problems are such that, while this bill may be able to do a little about the resource challenges, it is probably not the one that completely solves it. I know that funds have been allocated to the courts on a few occasions, but since there is still a change of priority in the courts, the improvements have been eaten up in other words there is not really a boost here. In SF, we are actually very strong advocates of using video to a greater extent than in the past. This is actually something that we in the SF have put a great deal of pressure on because it can happen. We thought it was a major problem that the courts had to shut down last spring, so victims waited a long time for justice, i.e. because the courts came behind. We believe that we are totally dependent on finding a solution to this problem so that the courts are not affected if we should run into a pandemic again sometime. We come a small step along the way here, but I do share the concern that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen addressed the balance between the prosecution and the courts. I think we need to have a closer look at that. Then there is the problem of the defendants missing from the hearings, which means that the cases are dragged on and this is a burden on all the parties involved. We are, in fact, involved in addressing the problem of missing persons. We share the concern, and in fact we do not think it is sustainable that the defendants can register right before the main debate with a text message or an e-mail that lands in court, almost at the same time as the hearing begins. It is disrespectful, and it is good that we are beginning to obtain evidence of it. But we have a concern about taking benefits from people if they do not go to court. We are not saying that we should not look at it, but it certainly requires that we have evidence or some knowledge of who is missing, why they are doing it, and whether this will mean that we will make them appear to a greater extent. Otherwise, I can be very concerned that we are pooring some people who already have a very poor life, because some of the people, at least those in criminal proceedings that we often end up in prison, are people who have abuses and who have no control over their lives. It is people who have mental disorders, personality disorders and other challenges that mean that they do not live as straight as we do. And that makes them a little difficult to keep track of a calendar, on time and on the e-box and all the other things that we think are quite common to check from time to time. I'm afraid we'll hit some people who are vulnerable. It is clear that they must, of course, be accountable for what they have done, but I would be a little worried about pooring them. However, I do not wish to deny that if the Minister can present any information which indicates that it will work in relation to the fact that we will then have them show up, then of course we can also look at it. And, of course, it is crucial that this applies not only to those who are on cash benefits and the like, but to all people. I think these should be my opening remarks and I look forward to having a committee reading. There are still elements in this which I think are worth pitting out, but mostly it is a good proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420161727	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur, and then it is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420161813	Thank you very much, President. A chain is no stronger than the weakest link. That is also the case in the criminal proceedings chain. I'm sure many of you remember the TV show a few years ago, called the Weakest Led. It was a quiz program which rejected the weakest participant in each round. However, there are no weak participants in the criminal proceedings chain. The police, the prosecution, and the courts run fast what only day. But despite that, you can see that the case piles are growing and growing. Instead of rejecting them, we must try to reject some of the rules that make the criminal justice chain sluggish as long as it does not weaken legal certainty. And 11⁄2 years ago it was particularly the prosecution that was under pressure, and therefore the Radical Left proposed to strengthen the prosecution, at the financial law negotiations in 2019. We succeeded, and we have given them another boost in the police settlement. I think we have to realise that the case piles are now piled up in the courts. Danish judges are among the most productive in Europe, and yet we see jurisdictions with waiting times long in the future. And I think we all agree, in a substantial part of legal certainty, that cases are dealt with as quickly as possible. In the draft law here there are proposals to lubricate oil on the criminal justice chain and make it slide a little faster. I share the view that the defendants, as well as other parties to the proceedings, should not be able to withdraw the case and take their place in court by resigning for no reason. However, the Radical Left still lacks some more background for what the different absences are actually due, so we get a better overview of it. I myself was a judge for a number of years before I was elected here to the Folketing, and there it was both forgetting for the summons of interpreter, lack of service, the oversight of the police to fetch the defendant who led to no-shows. So there are many who have been involved in it when the criminal justice chain is not just running as smeared. In this draft law, there are both actions that the Radical Left can support and actions that we cannot support. The Radical Left does not believe it makes sense to reduce public services from those who fail and, as we have heard earlier in the debate, there are no scientific studies suggesting that this has any effect either. So let us start by taking that initiative at least. At the same time, it puts the people who receive public services at a lower level than other people. And why do they have to be put at a disadvantage in order to get out of court? The Radical Left is also concerned about the change in § 748a (4) of the Code of Procedure, where the starting point for a court order for a number of coercive measures is no longer to be physically, but digitally, as a starting point. We still think that the starting point should be physical, but we recognise that digitally can make sense in several cases, and that is why this is the way things are today. But that should not be the starting point, which is being proposed here. Collection of court order for agent activity, blocking of websites, etc. is very important and should take place physically. We also think it is good that there is a demand for proof of why there is legal decay. However, when the requirement is that it should be submitted at the beginning of the hearing, it does not take into account that one can actually become ill on the day itself. That is why I think that due to the many and many different parts of a legislative proposal such as this one, there might well be a need for a technical review in the Committee on Legal Affairs, because there are a great many proposals. That is why we are looking forward to a thorough examination of the committee in order to go through the many proposals, of which there are both several proposals supported by the Radical Left and more that we look at less positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420162301	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420162323	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the Minister for this draft law on improving the effectiveness of the criminal justice chain, which must of course also be said to be an improvement in the effectiveness of the legislative process when you look at how many things have actually been incorporated into this bill at once. For the sake of both victims and perpetrators, and not least the sense of justice, we are in complete agreement that an effective and timely criminal process is absolutely essential. And it seems that many of the proposed changes can have a minor, yet positive, effect on the processes in the courts, for example. that the right to change must digitise their communication... that is one of the things we in the Enhedslisten can support. And I fully agree with Mr. Kristian Hegaard, when he says that it could be beneficial to have a technical review in the Legal Affairs Committee of this very big bill. I would like to take this opportunity to say some of the things, in fact, mostly one of the things in the bill that we in the Enhedslist are very critical of. To have to prove legal decay is, in fact, a quite reasonable requirement, we think, but I agree with several of those who have replied to the hearing that we risk more cases taking longer and having to go over, because it is difficult if you are to appear in court at 8 a.m. 9, to obtain a medical certificate that you are ill if it is only found when you wake up in the morning. Furthermore, no account has been taken of the group of citizens who are often on the dock in criminal proceedings as a result of any abuse or other, and who can be imagined to be often those who find it difficult to prove legal decay due to their personal circumstances. However, we do not know whether this is the case, because the draft law does not indicate who, or when, or how the cases of non-compliance are distributed. The fact that the bill will also cut people's right to receive public benefits as a result of absence from the court without legal decay seems to us in the Enhedslisten to be under all criticism. Unfortunately, most of the people for whom it is relevant are people who are already on the verge of society. Vulnerable citizens such as: homeless people, drug users or others who are really having a hard time in life are often unable to check their e-box at all to find out whether to appear in court, that is to say when the right time really is. That is why we fear that this will really hit socialally wrong and will have a social battle side that will actually hit harder compared to what the draft law is trying to remedy in terms of the faster case review. To have to cut their benefits by thinking that this is due to a lack of respect for the law, I find it extremely problematic, not least in view of the fact that this is precisely a form of punishment for people who are not in work, where people who are in work are not being punished. That seems to us to be awkward. The proposed digital service of judgments in default is also problematic in relation to those who are socially vulnerable, who may run the risk of skipping deadlines or not serving, simply because they are not aware of the judgment they have been given because they are not aware of when to appear in court, and this should be taken into account. I therefore believe that we need to discuss the social aspects of this bill or, at least, we believe in the Enhedslisten, will arise on the basis of this bill. There are also several areas of the proposal which have not been taken into account as to whether there are psychological or social conditions which, exceptionally, would prevent the proposed amendments from being applied. So, are there some exceptions here? Of course, I think there should be. So, although we in the Enhedslisten of course want to contribute to the effectiveness of the courts, we still believe that we need to find a way to ensure that we do not push homeless people and drug users further away for the rest of society than they are today. And so I look forward to: 1) that we can have a technical review in the Committee on Legal Affairs; 2) that the Minister will, I hope, look favourably on an amendment from the Enhedslisten, which divides the bill and separates the things that we do not disagree with; and 3) that we can have a joint committee procedure which ensures that we can have a faster case review in the courts. So it is a rather lukewarm reception from here, but we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420162808	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420162837	Thank you very much. And thank you to the Minister for a very good bill. The real issue is to make our judicial system more flexible. We always want that in the Conservative People's Party. We would like to highlight a few important elements. Among other things: there must be more respect for our legal system and the actors working in it. In other words, it must be more difficult for the accused to be absent from legal proceedings. There is far too much precious time in which to do so. It is proposed that it should be documented when it is due. The proposal also allows the court to reject an appeal if the defendant himself fails to comply with the appeal. We think that's a really nice tightening up. And then digital and technological developments must also be incorporated into our legal system. It must be easier to hold video court meetings in more simple cases. The immediate communication between several bodies must be digitised and made more flexible. In the Conservative People's Party we look forward to working on the bill here, which we can of course support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420163006	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420163055	I shall not go into all the points in this legislation; some have done so before me. I just want to say that New Citizens are, as a starting point, in favour of this bill. We also think it is good that it has consequences if, for example, one fails to do so. This also applies to many of the other points contained in this bill. There are a few things that we would like to ask a little further about in the course of the committee's proceedings, such as that of dropping jury members in some specific cases, because, as a starting point, we think it is a good idea that there is always juror treatment. But we are also concerned with the question of these digital preaching, i.e. whether someone is simply being excluded from receiving a summons because they do not have NemID it could be a homeless person or anything else. So there we have some questions in committee. However, we are in favour of the draft law and thought it would correct many things in the legal system, which is also necessary. So there is positive support from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420163157	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is now the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420163227	Thank you for that and thank you for the predominantly very positive reception all around. I guess I get it right away that there may be requests for a technical review. It is true, as one of the rapporteurs said, that this is a complex legislative proposal in which we have tried to package a number of things that have a common feature, that they want to make our criminal justice chain more effective, but they are also very different in nature. So the goal is the same, but the elements are very different. I understand that there may be detailed questions about individual elements: how do we deal with this? How do we do that? That is why, of course, it is my fundamental view that one of the worst things I can face is an uninformed Committee on Legal Affairs. That is why I would, of course, be extremely sympathetic to a desire for a technical review. That's all I needed. Moreover, there will also be plenty of opportunity, as usual, to ask written questions, and I know that the legal rapporteurs are diligent in doing so. I think I have an absolute record in answers to written questions. I think I answered 2,000 written questions last year. In other words, I will answer about seven questions a day, including Christmas Eve and so on. So the opportunity to use democratic tools is also to be commended to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in general. The starting point, as some of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, is that we have some courts that are under pressure. Some people have also said, and that is right: do we not also have to look at the state of resources in the courts? Why didn't we include it in the police deal? In other words, we have this chain of cases with police, with prosecutors, with courts and with service, and I think there I would like to congratulate everyone present on the fact that we got very, very far with the agreement we had made on police and prosecutors, as far as the first two elements are concerned: the police resource situation and the state of resources of the prosecution. I fully recognise that this is very well done and I think there was one of the rapporteurs who said it could lead to a situation where there would then be a build-up in the courts, and I also recognise that there is something we have to deal with here. We have provided additional resources in the wake of the corona effort, but anyone who asks if we are going to do so is probably right to ask the relevant question. So that has to be looked at. This proposal that we have before us today does not solve the problem of the courts, but it should help us to turn some of the buttons so that the use of resources in the courts is as effective as possible. I should like to comment on some of the comments that have been made. The fact that there has to be proof of legal absence is, of course, I think that in all sorts of other contexts it would be perfectly reasonable. Of course, there must be, and I believe that we have all been presented with stories of being ready with accusations, with defenders, with judges, perhaps also with lay judges, with interpreters, with all sorts of other things, and then there will be no defendants, and then the matter will not be able to enjoy furtherance, and in this way we are really wasting the resources of society and the opportunity to create the legal certainty that lies in the speed with which the cases come through. Of course, that's what this is gonna make up for. That is as true as it was said: what if you get sick on the day? Isn't there a dilemma there? There is, of course, and it has to be said that the answer to it is, first of all, that you get sick on the day, there is an opportunity to appeal. There is also a possibility of reopening the proceedings and, finally, the court will be able to refrain from taking the case as a case for failure to act. However, it can be said that the possibility that exists today for the defendant to decide for himself whether or not the case should be in order, therefore, to decide for himself whether or not to resign. Some people, of course, are really getting sick, but the cases that have been heard give reason to assume that there are also those who fail without really having a legitimate reason not to be present. There was also a lot that raised this with the possibility that it is a judge who has to decide whether or not there should be a video meeting. The starting point of the cases mentioned here, which are far from being all cases, for example. interventions in communication secrecy, body intervention, searching, etc.; I guess one has to say that we have learned a lot during the corona. One of the lessons we have learned is that we can actually get quite a long way with the video meetings, and there is no doubt that there is an opportunity here to streamline the processes. However, I hear your concerns, and I am willing to look at whether we can do it in such a way that this is the starting point, but for example. that the court may decide that there must be physical meetings if the use of video meetings would not be justified or if, for example, the court has jurisdiction; Considers it necessary for logistical or resource reasons. So it shouldn't be the case that it's chiseled in granite. I am, in fact, willing to engage in dialogue in the further process of ensuring how we can make this work properly. Then, of course, questions have also been raised about whether it is fair enough to reduce benefits to people who are on public service, which is a classic discussion. I would just like to point out that there are two prerequisites which, following the proposal, must be met: firstly, that there must be no legal reason for this and, secondly, that an arrest decision must have been taken. So it will not be, if I may say so, influences that are brought down from heaven. Then Mr. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: On the other hand, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen is also on the board and it is absolutely right that the Board of Law should come up with proposals for simplifying the civil rules. We will have that discussion too, but it is in a different context than here. Basically, I would like to thank you for your reception. I understand perfectly well that with the nature of this bill there may be a need for us to have additional dialogue along the way. I am prepared to listen and, of course, to make some changes which, I hope, can bring as broad a majority into the Folketing as possible. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420163915	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420163916	Thank you for your speech to the Minister, and also thank you for your consideration, on the one hand, of a technical examination and, on the other hand, of what I heard as an opening to look at section 748 of the Code of Procedure, the proposal to increase the use of telecommunications in these cases which have to do with obtaining a court order concerning coercive measures. Because what we are dealing with here is a major legislative proposal which needs to look at a wide range of issues that need to be dealt with more effectively in the criminal proceedings chain, and it is just that I would like to hear the Minister's comment on whether one should not pay particular attention to the fact that in a legislative proposal which is concerned with making criminal proceedings more effective, one can see that the city courts are writing and they think that the proposal for increased use of telecommunica tions with picture parts is superfluous, and that there is a risk of extending the duration of the proceedings and the risk of errors in the decisions taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164015	Yes, I have noted that, and I have to say quite frankly: let's try to dive into it. I can hear what they are saying, and I can understand what they are writing, but I find it hard to see what it is that is on the basis of assuming that this will lead to extended processing time. I am really imagining a situation where, like we have elsewhere, you can have a video link where the prosecutor and the judge can be on and decide, for example, whether a search warrant should be issued. And everything else equal, and rather than moving down to court etc., one must assume that such cases can be dealt with fairly quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164051	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164051-2	Now neither I nor the Minister are in court on a daily basis, and perhaps there are good reasons for this, partly because it is good people sitting there, partly because we have not done anything that has just done that we had to go down there. That is why I wonder whether the Minister does not agree that respect must be given to those who sit there every day and have a great deal of insight into it, and whose words must therefore be given a great deal of attention, despite the Minister's just thinking: what is now up and down in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164129	Yes, I think that is true, but I also believe that we share that experience, among other things. from the municipal world, that sometimes there may also be • and I am not saying that there is that in our judicial system • system inertia, and there may also be such a little: we have never done that; we fall back in the way we have always done things. There may sometimes be a need for someone from outside to give a friendly but definite push in the back.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164200	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The minister doesn't have to drink off because the minister is next to come back up here. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164235	The debate is open, please go to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164242	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for tabling the motion for a resolution. As the SF quite rightly points out, and as I know the SF's rapporteur is extremely concerned about the situation, we are in a situation where we lack prison officers, while at the same time we have a occupancy rate in our prisons which is significantly higher than was provided for in the multi-year agreement that is currently in place. This is a serious situation, and I also agree with the SF that we need to look at how we can make it more attractive to train as a prison officer. In concrete terms, SF proposes that, in school periods, co-counselling students should receive a student's salary instead of the SU. Today it is the case that the education to become a prison warden takes 3 years, of the 3 years the pupils go to school 10 months, and in those months they get in the non-residual S.U. If that's what you're • 6,300 kr. a month. In the remaining years and months they receive a fixed salary of approx. 20,000 kroner. a month, and there are then some options for supplements etc. As I said at the outset, I fully share the analysis: we must make it more attractive to train as a prisoner. And I actually think it's true that pay plays a part here. This is also evident from the examination of the prison service training which the Department of Justice has prepared and which I sent to the Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs yesterday. That is why I also have sympathy for the SF's proposal. However, I believe that making such a fundamental change in prison service education would be quite natural to include as elements that we need to look at when we come later this year to come up with a new agreement for criminal justice. And why is that? This is because, in the negotiations on the multi-year agreement, we have the possibility of thinking across areas and thus ensuring that, overall, we find the best solutions for criminal justice. When we look at the recruitment of more prison officers in the negotiations, we will also be able to look at the retention of the current prison officers and the security of our prisons. At the same time, we also have to deal with the capacity challenge that has a major impact on the working conditions of prison officers. And, as you all know, a multi-year agreement is also about economics and priorities, and the introduction of a salary for all three vintages that go on prison service training annually will cost 26 million, according to the Department of Justice. kr. a year when it is fully phased in. Moreover, in this context, I regret that it has been stated in the past that it is a considerably lower amount. But that is the amount that will go to a vintage, which is perhaps the explanation for the estimate of expenditure in the motion for a resolution. After all, we know how it is going to be: we have to make the multiannual agreement and we are going to be in a negotiating process where there will be many good ideas, many want on the table. There will also be a number of challenges that we need to address, and that is why I do not think that taking an initiative and separating it from the other complex by pre-discounting our political discussions later this year is the right way to get to the point. So the government cannot support the resolution, but I think there is reason to focus on the subject, and I am actually looking forward to some of what we are going to discuss in the context of the forthcoming multi-year agreement being exactly how we ensure that it is more attractive to be a prison guard in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164648	Thank you, Minister. There are brief comments, and first of all it is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164649	Well, the thing that puzzles me is that we haven't done this a long time ago. It is my impression that there has been a majority to do exactly this for a long time. A great many people have spoken out in favour of this, so I think that the Minister will be supported if he did not go along with this. So what's blocking us from doing this, like we know how to solve it? We're going to have to deal with this particular element in the D.C.A. agreement. Does the Minister not think that it would be timely to take this proposal and make it a reality now and get started with it, instead of waiting for the criminal justice negotiations that are coming, yes, I know, after the summer break? Everything takes time, and the problem is that there's no more time for the Department of Corrections. They stand every day with the consequences of the lack of prison officers. So what's really blocking this? Because I think we could find the money if we really wanted to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164747-2	I have no doubt that if we were to tell each party's legal rapporteur if we were not to do this, they would all, and I myself would agree with that. I also think it is only necessary to note that when we have to make a larger agreement, there will be different priorities that will be weighed against each other, just as we will be in the situation that in and where a party may well think this is a good idea, then the party will be faced with all the other things that need to be given priority. Perhaps rather spend the money on a climate action, or what do I know? But I say that from my point of view, from the point of view of my party, this is an acknowledged and important issue that needs to be resolved. I also agree that we have an incredibly pressured criminal justice service and that, therefore, we also need to take initiatives towards this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164839	Mrs. Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164841	Yes, but then I think I will have to hear: how long does the Minister think we can continue to hold out the criminal services in a stretched arm and not solve the very major problems that exist in our criminal services? When we are virtually unable to recruit new prison officers as they disappear due to poor working conditions and too few hands, the challenge grows from day to day. And it storms in with more inmates. This erodes what you call dynamic safety; you don't attack anyone you know. But today the prison guards do not know the prisoners, for they simply do not have the time to solve it. So how long does the Minister think it is still viable to wait for this solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164924	I do not agree with the premise that I or the government should hold out the criminal services in a stretched arm. On the contrary, I think we have taken a number of initiatives which, I hope, will help in the short term. However, the basic solution must be found in the context of the agreement that we are going to make this year on a multi-annual agreement for criminal justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164953	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420164956	I had understood that the so-called reformist model of the Social Democrats on the road to socialism meant taking things such in small steps at a time that one can yawn and can digest and not such revolutionary just want everything or nothing and everything on the table at once, and then one has to change big. Isn't it better to take an obvious step? This is probably the most obvious step to take, and the Minister himself says that he would probably be involved in this, if he were asked directly, if this is not a good proposal, and if then all parties go along and promise to find the economy for it, is it not an ideal social democratic reformist proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165048	That is true; it has been some time since we stopped being revolutionary, and it is also my impression that the loneliness list is just as quietly going along with crabs. And it is also true that if you see a social democrat with a knife in one hand, you can be relatively sure that we have a fork in the other. So there will be no revolutions on our part. In fact, the question at all its heart is an invitation to do what we have to do, namely to say: let us sit down and find out how this can be done. Sir. Christian Juhl's statement that there is also a need to find the money points out, among other things. on one of the dilemmas that we always face when we say that now we want to give priority to this area. What I think there is reason to see seems to be a very broad common recognition of problems and recognition that this will be an important tool for resolving the problems that we face or some of them, which are also other tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165139	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165141	Now the Minister must take care of the President, because we must not make fun of the names of the parties, and the Enhedslisten is not at all lonely and does not feel lonely. But I want to say that this proposal fits in with everything we're doing in this time when we're trying to get back to normal. If we then said, as the SF suggests: let's take this with us and then get that little improvement through now, when we're going back to normal society again, and then get a real improvement that we've all gone and thirsted for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165211	I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl, that I perceived the Minister's saying as caring for the Enhedslisten, so I did not intervene. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165217	That's also how it was meant, so I'm sorry if it was misunderstood.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165242	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, so now we have to get drunk. And then we start with the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165308	Thank you. After all, it was a talk about reformism and so little was said that it was reforms on the road to socialism. I just want to say that it is democratic socialism that we are working on in the social democracy. It's just for information. But thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the SF for having tabled the motion for a resolution. The Minister of Justice has, of course, explained the government's position on the motion for a resolution, so I do not necessarily want to repeat that, but I would like to stress that we in the Social Democratic Party, like the SF, are concerned with getting more prison officers. That is why, of course, we also need to look at how we can make it more attractive to train, and there we are, in this way, involved in the fact that student salaries in education can be a means of improving the recruitment basis. However, there may also be some other means, and there are, as has already been mentioned, a number of negotiations on a multi-annual agreement on criminal justice, and I think it is a little in the light of that, that is to say, when we talk about reforms, it is the overall package over a long period of years that makes sense in the context of reform. This is, of course, an element of it and there is no doubt about it, and I think the Minister for Justice has clearly stated that it is a serious and a good element in a future solution to this. But we are just where we think it is best in terms of content for the negotiations we have to go through, so that we can find the best solutions in the long term and not just the same in stages. That is why I also expect that this manning challenge will, of course, be a key element in the discussions that will take place. So one can say that we have sympathy for the SF's proposal, and so we agree with the intention, but, as I said, this is something we think should be discussed in the context of a multi-annual agreement on this. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution, but we look forward to the discussions in the autumn. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165516	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165519	Thank you for the floor. When I am getting a little impatient, it is because I discussed this proposal with the Minister almost a year ago, and nothing has happened since. Now, as you know, we made a really nice police settlement, and we dropped off a lot more money. It is fully deserved, because the police are carrying out a great task. But every time we do that, you forget about the courts and you forget about the criminal services. And that has some consequences for the other parts of the system, which will have more to do. Sometimes I wish politicians cared exactly as much about criminal justice as they cared about the police, because then I think it looked different out there. But I would like to hear from the Social Democrats' rapporteur whether he thinks that we should set aside as much money for the criminal services as we have succeeded in dropping off to the police, so should there be as significant improvement in criminal services as there has been with the police in this multi-year agreement that is coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165621	I therefore think that, in relation to the fact that we have just had a case of efficiency in relation to the courts, one might say that then we are in the process of dealing with the courts, where we are making some moves. It was also mentioned by the Minister that it was probably also inevitable to discuss some form of economy further to the area in order to ensure even better efficiency than the one we are experiencing here. Now, in relation to the prison system, there are also some challenges which the SF clearly addresses here, but the amount itself, in relation to how much there is to be, these debates in the autumn, together with the Finance Act, will have to decide in some way. However, we recognise that there is a need.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165706	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165707	It was not a very clear answer, i.e. whether it would look as good as it did for the police. But then I'll ask another question. It is actually the case that right now we find it difficult to recruit new enough to cover the graduation hump that is. People simply leave criminal justice because of poor working conditions. 60% There is too little time left for the inmates. It takes more hands. This proposal could get more hands on you. How long does the Social Democrat rapporteur think that we can wait to get to grips with criminal justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165745	I actually said that I have always recognised that there is a challenge to it. However, I think I should go back to saying that it will be a multiannual agreement that will be put in place for us to have negotiations in this area, and we should also have liked to solve the exact challenge that Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt is addressing here. So when there is an overall agreement, I am sure that, both in the short and the long term, we have helped solve some of the challenges that are here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165814	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165816	Thank you. I do not know whether the rapporteur has read the Enhedslisten's programme, but I would say that democratic socialists such as the Social Democrats, the Enhedslisten and others think that rehabilitation is a very important thing. This is actually the core of our prison system and of our entire penal system. It's not like you're gonna have to get someone over your head because you didn't behave yourself. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not believe that prison officers and others in the field of criminal justice are extremely important. Skillful prison officers and skilled social workers and other skilled professional groups are the alpha and omega for the process of rehabilitation to work, but it is actually a little slow at the moment. There are far too many who come back and need to have a more ride through the system and one more ride and one more ride.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165915	I think I can accept that. It is in the same way that I recognise that the challenge is there. I will then perhaps take a step further ahead and not just talk about rehabilitation. Because I agree that punishment in itself is not the only solution to these problems. But it is clear that there is quite another element in which I think we can agree. It is that where it really is battling and working is when you do prevention, so that we do not get quite out there where we have to rehabilitate people. So prevention in itself also seems to me to be an element. But I am well aware that what we are thinking of here is, of course, the conditions that are being given to the staff who are here. And the worse the conditions are, the worse the conditions are, of course, also in order to do some of the work that is being pointed out. I recognize that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420165958	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170001	Now I have realized that all prevention and rehabilitation cannot be done in one day. We need to take it with little cautious reformist steps. That is why I think it is important that we focus on this task now, which the SF has put on the agenda and which is important. Because it's people who are stuck in the system and who have done something they weren't allowed to do. There it is important that we say that how do we take better care of them? Two years ago, everyone said that, come on, those prison officers have tough conditions, let's do something for them. Now there has not been much debate, and then the debate will fall again, and it is our job to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170036	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170037	I do not disagree with that, but I think it makes very good sense to make a multiannual agreement and not just a few elements that have been proposed here. A multi-annual agreement should be drawn up which will provide security and stability, which will hopefully also solve the challenges facing this area. So I insist that we are very much in agreement with a large number of the challenges that lie here, but we will be waiting for the overall package, which the Minister has said must be in place by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170106	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170125	Thanks to the Socialist People's Party for putting forward this proposal that prisoner pupils should be able to receive pupil's salary throughout the course of the education, as the Minister for Justice also explained, in contrast to today, when pupils receive su during the school period, which corresponds to 10 months of the three-year education. Over the next few years, we will be negotiating the conditions of the prison system, and I look forward to doing so, because I fully agree with the background to the proposal, namely that there is, unfortunately, much to be done here at the moment. I have been in many prisons and thank God I have escaped them again, but I have to say that there are some working conditions that are certainly not attractive. I might as well say that in addition to the work itself to a certain extent, it also applies to the mood, a tone that is and the threats that exist. It is not exciting, and the fact that SF wants to improve these conditions for the students at least, I understand, and we agree with that too. If, however, we do not want to take a position on this proposal, it is just as the Minister of Justice said, on the basis that we are going to start looking at the arrangements for the next four years in the field of criminal justice, and then it would be a little premature to take a position on this in advance. But on the left side, I want a receipt. There are some challenges that we need to take into account, and we do so in the negotiations I mentioned earlier. That is why we do not support the proposal as it stands for the vote, but at least we support it when the negotiations come to improve the conditions for prison officers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170319	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170321	Now we managed so well to pressure the government to call for negotiations on the Public Service Act, would the Left want to help press the government to convene some negotiations so that we can get started on this element, which somewhere is crucial for us to be able to recruit more people to the Criminal Services and which the government itself says is necessary for us to take a stand on and move forward? So that's something we're going to relate to. My point is that we have to do it now, because criminal services are simply bleeding right now and need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170358	I fully agree with that. The situation in criminal justice is currently so critical, so if we can improve it by embarking on the negotiations a few months before planned, we would be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170413	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170414	That sounds really nice. Then I hope that the Left is on a report in which we ask the government to call them immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170425	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170427	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he could help me with a question that I have often thought of. I've been in a lot of courtrooms now, and lawyers and judges and for that matter also legal secretaries seem to be enjoying their work, and there also seems to be enough air at work for you not to run down with stress, and you at least feel very rarely afraid of your work what you call them • clients or customers or the other person's. Why is there so much difference in relation to the conditions that we impose on that part of the system, whereas in relation to those who have to do, we have to call it the hard work, that is to say the rehabilitation work, historically we have not been so concerned about it. What could be the reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170518	Now it is a bit of a leading question, that is, what might be the reason why we haven't been doing so much about it. I can say that we in the Left have at least dealt with the prison system in many different ways and also about the rehabilitation work, I should like to say hello and say. I can't figure it, but a million dollars has been set aside for it, and most recently we have built a fluttering new prison. So I don't really recognize that we shouldn't give priority to that part. But at the same time I say quite honestly and honestly that I am not satisfied with the way the prison service operates in the Kingdom of Denmark. And the comparison with the other actors in the criminal proceedings... it's from legal secretaries to judges... I'm going to refrain from.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170602	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170603	Well, I'm just wondering. For where I come from, there is also a great difference between the workman who has to walk with the shovel and do the construction, and the architect who sits and draws it and who may sit with the engineer and has relatively good wages and relatively good working conditions. In other words, there is a great difference between the systems between those who plan and take a position and those who have to do it afterwards, and in fact it should basically be the other way around, that is, those who should have the hard work that should have the high wages and the good conditions. And that's what puzzles me a lot, and I understand that the Left is now doing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170643	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170644	Well, I've noted Sir. Christian Juhl's wonder. But perhaps you could draw a comparison with the good old Eastern Europe, where all the people were paid equally, and now I understand that there are some here where it has to be even more crooked, but it was not such a place where the whole thing just ran off and the workers were satisfied. I know you have to build a wall to keep them locked up. So I do not think that is the system to which we should appeal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170711	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and we can move on to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170730	Thank you. The proposal is, after all, an old DF proposal, so it has our full support. Earnings during training are important at a time when it is difficult to recruit prison officers, and the level of wages is also a challenge. Today, more is offered in wages as timber than to go on a gang of gangs, at the same time being subjected to constant threats, and more or less alone one is on guard. This means that too many stop, among others. because they can get better conditions in other industries or they stop because they are burned out. More officers and more colleagues are another element to make it attractive, and with more officers, the joy of work increases, which is why you want to be a cop in a prison, so that you can make a difference for those who are there and not just open and close doors when they go to the bathroom. At the same time, you can mark the necessary limits against the inmates, which is less likely to happen when you are understaffed. Then we need more prison officers, among other things. We have to make sure that we offer pay during training, so that more people want to train. So much support for the motion by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420170857	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420171005	Thank you very much for that, President, and thank you to the SF for the motion for a resolution and for focusing on the working conditions of prison officers. The prisons are overflowing and the prison officers' working conditions are under pressure. The stockpiling rate in prisons is usually more than 100 per cent, it has become more the rule than the exception, but the entire criminal services work hard every single day. Unfortunately, an analysis from the Department of Justice last year showed that many people are moving away from working conditions, especially because many are not allowed to use the professional skills they apply to as a prisoner. Because I sincerely believe that it is because you want to make a difference for the inmates and work with them, among other things, when you train to be a prisoner. rehabilitation. Similarly, I imagine that if you apply to the job as a school teacher, you have a dream and an ambition that the pupils who attend the class should thrive, that they should become good people and that they should learn something. I do not think it is an end in itself to train as a school teacher, to send as many pupils as possible outside the door or as many as possible to the office, as do the prison officers. Political decisions have made far too much of their professionalism in recent years, so that they cannot use the skills of socialisation and the development of people they have learned, and instead they must fight hard against them, and that puts pressure on working conditions. When there are no prison officers, as we see them, it is, of course, a requirement for recruitment, and there is no doubt that during education during school periods su will have a decisive effect on recruitment. For some of the people who among others... If you choose the training and the job as prison officers, you are someone who has just a few years on the back, who may have children and have established a family, and who may for some time make it difficult or even be a barrier to applying for the training as a prison warden. That is why the Radical Left supports the intention and purpose of the resolution. What is needed then is the question of funding behind it, which is why this is an issue which must be raised and which I am sure will also be raised when it comes to the negotiations on a new multi-annual agreement for criminal justice. And otherwise, of course, it is also an issue that can be raised for the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420171312	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420171337	Thank you. It takes human insight and life experience to be a prisoner if the work is to be a success and if you are to thrive with it. It has very major consequences when we cannot attract enough people to the training as a prisoner, both for the general crime in society and for the workplace represented by the Danish prisons, and thus the conditions under which the employees work. There is no doubt that the working environment in Danish prisons is hard pressed. When I read the SF's comments on the proposal during the preparatory work, I was surprised that the number of prison officers per year. In fact, the inmates have fallen from 0.68 to 0.48 in prison per year. inserted. It's a massive fall. I wasn't aware of that. There is no doubt that the working environment in Danish prisons is hard pressed, and it is not about the type of prisoners in prisons, or about the laziness of those who go to work every day. It is about the fact that, unfortunately, as a result of many years of under-priority of the conditions of the employees in prisons, we have entered a vicious spiral in which more and more people are quitting their jobs and fewer and fewer want to train as a prisoner. The last ones left must then run fast and have to cut a large part of the tasks that make the work meaningful, completely gone. The fact that we have prison officers who today can go to work and be alone in keeping track of a whole department is under all criticism. The proportion of prison officers who experience the psychological consequences of being so understaffed is creepy, and something has to be done. One of the things we can do is to ensure that it becomes attractive to train as a prisoner, and when we know that more people drop out of education because they cannot live for a su during the school period there is, it is an obvious place to put in. Because there is no question that it is the people who have just finished the school who are applying and can therefore do well for a su. Often, fortunately, there are people who have been on the labour market for several years and want to be re-educated, and it is a little difficult with house, car and three children to manage for 5,000 kroner. In particular, there is no prospect of making much money in the long term, as is the case with many academic courses. That is why I put my sincere question to the rapporteur of the Left. The problem of lack of prison officers also suffers from rehabilitation efforts. A few weeks ago, we received an update from the Minister of Justice, where we can see that there are fewer and fewer people taking an education while they are in prison. The prison officers themselves also say that they cannot do the important part of their job that rehabilitation is, because of staff shortages, and that this shortage makes it more dangerous for them to be at work because they cannot work as well as the inmates as they have been able to do in the past. This, at the same time as we continue to make punishments every time there is a new headline in the press, also minimises the likelihood that we are letting out people who have the courage to start afresh and become law-abiding citizens. So to ensure that we can get more trained prison officers, the Enhedslisten can support the proposal and will be happy to help find the economy for it. But the Minister himself has helped well on the way. In the comments made by the SF on the proposal, they write: In 2020, Minister of Justice Nick Hækkerup was asked what a conversion of su to pupil's salary during the school periods would cost. The answer from the Minister for Justice was that a total additional cost for the State was estimated to be approx. 6,7 million kr. Annually based on the average school intake for the three previous years, corresponding to an annual intake of approx. 140 students. Then there is a reference to where it stands. I would like to say that there is a long way to go to the 25 million. I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. If it's 6,7 million. kr., it is no more than that most ministers can handle it on a good Monday afternoon and then get it out of the world. SF proposes that the cost of the proposal be financed by the economic space available. We think it is a good proposal from the SF and we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420171826	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Britt Baker, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420171848	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the SF for highlighting this problem. This is a very relevant issue and it is important that we keep following developments in the number of prison officers. This is an area that deserves our attention. The number of prison officers has fallen in recent years, and the prison officers are even a vulnerable group, which in many ways has a really grueling job. One way to ensure continued admission could be to offer a pupil's salary during the school period of the prison service. In particular, this will make training more appealing to those who are in the middle of their lives who want to be further educated but who are in a situation where they cannot make the economy coherent. The agreement for the administration of criminal justice expires this year and we look forward to the negotiations for a new agreement. That is why we are also waiting for the government's initiative and we would like to discuss it before we take a position on this proposal. Because it is important that we identify all aspects of how we attract more students to the subject, and we hope to be able to do so during the negotiations. In addition, the proposers write that the agreement should be financed by the economic space available. We still don't know what the corona crisis has done about the room. The most recent assessment by the Ministry of Finance was that the room for manoeuvre had fallen considerably, and it is therefore crucial that we have the financial consequences of using more of the room for manoeuvre before we can support this excellent motion for a resolution tabled by the SF. Let me stress again that we are very much in favour of the SF's proposal, because the SF raises a problem here that we need to find a solution to. That is why we are looking forward to the negotiations on the agreement for the criminal justice economy, but we will wait for the area to be fully explored in those negotiations. The Conservative People's Party supports the intention of the proposal here, but we cannot support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172115	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172116	Conservatives have, of course, been in the position of the Minister of Justice before the current Minister for Justice had it, and it has certainly been a factor in relation to the many major problems facing criminal services at the present time, because no action has been taken. No provision has been made for the number of extra prison officers actually promised in the last multi-year agreement, and Conservatives, among others, have. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution. So I want to know where the pain line goes for the Conservatives and how bad things have to be in the Criminal Services before we have any negotiations on this. Well, what's the pain limit for the Conservatives? Are we just gonna keep looking at the fact that the D.A. is about to go down in a lack of staff?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172209	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172210	Well, I was actually trying to make myself quite clear. I think this is an excellent proposal from the SF, and I also think that I tried to make it quite clear that we would very much like to look into the issue and that we do so when it is the case that a multi-annual agreement is to be negotiated, and that will be done later in 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172230	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172231	Well, there are always many such benevolent words that I am sure you can get excited about in the field of criminal justice, but I also believe that there is a loss of confidence that politicians actually act on the problems that exist. This was a tool to act, it was a tool to get more hands. Do the Conservatives believe that it is an acceptable situation that is in the criminal services right now, when so many people are going away, because there are not enough hands and where the problems are growing bigger and bigger because it is pouring in with inmates, among other things. as a result of punishments adopted by the Folketing? I mean, where is the pain limit for the Conservatives, and when are we going to act?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172311	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172312	Well, we don't think this is a satisfactory situation. That is why I also welcome the fact that the SF has focused on this area, which is why I also call on the government to do something about this, and that is why we are also in favour of the negotiations on the multiannual economy with a focus on this. We are also going to take this up with the minister in these negotiations, because of course there must be proper working conditions for the prison officers, and of course we must ensure that enough staff can be recruited for the Danish prisons; there should be no doubt about that. For us, this is a priority area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172348	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172349	It is true that the Conservatives have said this many times, but if you look at the figures which the SF outlines in the comments and which I have no reason to believe are wrong, it says that on average in 2015 there were 0.68 officers per year. inmate and that it has now dropped to 0.48 officers per. inserted. This means a decrease of approx. 30% What if we told our advisors in the parties to do the same thing or more by 30%? In the case of less employees, or for those in society, in schools or in day-care institutions, or for that matter in construction sites, they had to do almost 30 per cent. More so, I think there would be an outcry in society. So what we're working on here isn't pretty acute, and isn't SF right in saying that we should do something about this now and not just wait until negotiations are called?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172459	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172501	Now I don't know what these numbers are, as Mr. Christian Juhl refers to here, but of course it is something we must have done about. There is no doubt about that, and that is why I am saying that we are taking it to the negotiations. If it is the case that the Support Parties Enhedslisten and SF think this is so important, then I just think that Enhedslisten and SF should demand a meeting with the Minister. As a support party, we have the right to demand a meeting with the Minister and to ask for these negotiations to be started.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172527	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172528	Well, SF doesn't keep that secret. They say that the Minister's answer in the general part of the Legal Affairs Committee shows that the answer to Question No. 209. It is in the comments on the proposal itself, so these figures are available to everyone. A drop of 30%. There must be some action.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172604	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172605	That is where I only call on Enhedslisten and SF as support parties to act. There you have a certain power as a support party, and I just think SF and Enhedslisten should use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172617	There are no more brief comments and we would like to thank the rapporteur. And after a little cleaning and despriting, it's Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172644	Thank you. Danish prison officers do a grooming and commendable job every day, and they should be very thankful for that. We know that 13.5 per cent. of the current prison officers, masters or transport officers meet the diagnostic criteria for ptsd. 5.4% of the current prison officers, masters and transport officers have received a psychiatric diagnosis for a reaction to severe strain, including ptsd. One third of all prison officers, transport officers and workmen who are in prison craftsmen have experienced situations where their lives have been at risk. According to a study from VIVE, from which these figures are also from, the job as a prisoner has become more demanding and psychologically stressful. Many employees experience several violent incidents. I wonder what this development is all about. One can have one's clear assumption, namely that more than half of inmates in Danish prisons have a foreign background. Specifically, there are 51.5% in the closed prisons. of the inmates who have foreign backgrounds, while 48.5%. is of ethnic Danish origin. In the jailhouses, 51.9%. foreign background, while a total of 67.8%. In Copenhagen prisons have foreign backgrounds. The figures speak their own clear language. It has been a long time since prisoners like Egon Olsen sat and brewed plans in prisons, it has become more raw, and it has become even more dangerous. That is why, of course, we also need to ensure that employees are assured, and in fact we think that the proposed model sounds interesting, especially if it can make more people choose the subject later in life. There will soon be negotiations on the economy of the Department of Criminal Welfare, which we look forward to this year. If we are to be able to attract more skilled staff to prisons, we need to ensure their working conditions, and we do so, among other things. by ensuring that all criminal aliens are consistently expelled after the first sentence. And if they have been granted Danish citizenship, it must be taken away from them when they get an unconditional sentence of liberty, and then they must be consistently and forever. We need to solve the problems of foreigners from the bottom up, and we need to ensure better conditions for employees in Danish prisons, and the two things go hand in hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172913	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the New Citizens' rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420172934	Thank you. As usual, when we talk about Detectives, there are many well-intentioned words, many expressions, but not so much action. I believe that we should have been called long ago for negotiations on the economics of the Detective Service, because it is clear that there is a great challenge to the Department of Justice and that political solutions are needed now, not in half a year's time or in a whole year's time, but right now. Sometimes I wish politicians cared about their prison officers as much as they care about the police. At any rate, it is evident that when it comes to solutions for our prison officers or employees in the Department of Justice, there are no money trees or quick solutions. We are very quick to adopt punishments which mean more inmates, but when it comes to following up the situation that there are too many of them and the prison officers are being pressured, things are not going so fast. The challenges are well known, there are far too many inmates who are tucked into cracks and pockets everywhere in the Department of Criminal Services, and we open capacity as never before. The inmates now live in visitor rooms, gyms, classrooms, cellars, and everything else that has just four walls becomes cells. The number of inmates has exploded, and we simply do not have enough seats. So it is true that the Minister has opened up some new capacity, but who is going to man the new capacity? Yes, that just means that the number of prison officers we have is being spread out in a much thinner layer of the institutions we have before us. In the middle of all of this, the staff of the Department of Justice, of which we do not have enough, suffer the joy of work, and then they stop, and then the result is that we have even fewer. In fact, right now we can hardly even recruit enough to put a plug in the way of prison officers, and that is why there are fewer and fewer of them, and that is a really, really boring situation, because it provides both a poorer working environment, and it also provides less help for the inmates who need to stop their crime, and then it provides less security for the employees and less sense in the task solution. And it may be a little under-lit fact that when inmates actually have meaningful activities and good relations with prison officers, it affects the working environment and safety in the right direction for employees, and that is actually quite essential for a professional group that has a violent degree of ptsd compared to everyone else in this society. The fact is that you simply do not attack someone you know and have a relationship with, and therefore it is quite essential that our prison officers have time to deal with the task. One of the most important tools to increase safety and security is a sufficient number of employees with the time to talk to the inmates. That's why this proposal could make it possible for us to start recruiting more widely. I am aware that there will be some time before we have new well-educated prison officers, but it would mean something if we started the task solution. After all, there are no quickfixes in the Department of Justice, and it is not the case that we can pick up new cops tomorrow, even if we gave the money right now. Nevertheless, it is important that we get to work on finding solutions. I had consultations with the Minister last year, but I was unable to secure more finance for the Department of Criminal Services, and then I submitted a series of debureaucratisation proposals last year after the consultation in which I had the Minister, because when you cannot get the chromed solution, you sometimes have to go with the second best. So I actually got the Prisons Association and prison officers and other staff in the Department of Criminal Services to contribute to proposals for things that could be abolished, that they went and spent time on, that didn't make sense and didn't give any value. I have recently received a fine report from the Minister and, in fact, part of those proposals has also become reality. I think that's really good. However, that is not a whole solution. However, the reason for reintroducing the pupil's salary to the students in the prison service education is, as I have said, that we have to deal with this catastrophic shortage of staff, and today we are only given su during the school period, and we know that if we have only gotten that villa, doggie and Volvo and have set ourselves at some cost, it is just a barrier to go down to su, and that is why this proposal makes real sense. And so it is also the case that the Minister, as he quite rightly mentioned, submitted a proposal for a review of prison service training yesterday, and that includes a recommendation that the diet should actually be abolished and the pupil's salary reinstated. So that is something we come to, and that is why it becomes so much more incomprehensible that we cannot now land on a solution, but I have to accept that. On the 6.7 million. kr. Christian Juhl, who can't understand why it gets taller, I'd say it gets taller because there are several vintages, and this is for one vintage. But then you might be able to make an emergency solution where you take one vintage emergency, and then you solve the rest of the settlement itself. At least I think it is important that we get started here. This weekend, there was a story that the staffing had dropped by 30%. in general in the Department of Criminal Services, when you look at the number of prison officers in relation to how many inmates there are, and that means that there is going to be a really, really strong race out there, and everything else equals it must provide a worse task solution, and that is really, really a pity. In any case, the Left was involved in drawing up a report on pressure on the government to convene negotiations, and I hope that we will be able to come together on that afterwards, because there is clearly a need for action in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420173612	Thank you. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420173633	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420173645	Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. I would like to begin by saying that I have a great deal of sympathy for the motives behind the proposal. It is crucial for me and for the government that victims of crimes feel unfairly treated, and it is important that victims of crimes receive redress so that they can move on with their lives. The proposers propose that in future the Compensation Board should deal with the cases of the Board in accordance with a so-called notification principle. This means that the injured party can only report his injury to the Compensation Board. Once the damage has been declared, it will be up to the court to state the case and to determine which claims the damage may give rise to. Today it is the case that the victim himself must apply for compensation, post by post and period by period, for all the claims that may have arisen in connection with a crime. That is what is called an application principle, contrary to the principle of notification. The proposers point out, among other things, that: that the scheme of the Compensation Board should be changed because similar schemes operate with a notification principle. This applies, among other things, to: For occupational injuries and for patient injuries, where compensation can be sought from the Labour Market Insurance and Patient Compensation respectively. However, the schemes cannot be compared directly with the victim compensation system and thus with the Compensation Board. The victim compensation system is a special system in which the scope relates in particular to compensation and compensation for personal injury caused by criminal offences. Therefore, the claims of the victim against the injurer must be invoked as a starting point in the criminal proceedings against the injurer. It is the courts which decide first and foremost on any claims for compensation and compensation that may arise in connection with the criminal offence. If the injured party is then required to pay compensation and the conditions laid down in the victim compensation law are fulfilled, the injured party has a legal claim for damages and compensation from the State. This means that the injured party may apply for his or her claims for compensation and compensation from the Compensation Board, in the event of the injured party's own failure to pay. Even if the injurer is acquitted in court or if the injurer is unknown, the injured person may nevertheless apply for compensation by the court. Then there are also the claims that cannot be established when the criminal proceedings are being dealt with. In this case, the victim may apply for compensation at the Board, which shall then deal with the case. I mean, if you, for example... In the event of an injury that develops where the final development of the injury has not taken place in the course of the trial, the claim may be made subsequently. The victim compensation scheme is therefore a civil code, and the State is not taking the case on behalf of the victim against the victim, but it is popularly said that the state is putting the money to the injurer, so that the victim will not be in a situation where a crime has been committed against you and there is an injurer, but he cannot get the money out of him. Then we say: Well, then the community puts the money out so you can get your compensation, and then we try to get the money in from the injurer. This means that the State will then be involved in the injured party's claims against the injurer. As the rules are today, as I said, cases before the Compensation Board are dealt with on the basis of an application principle, and this means that even as a victim you must apply for any claims for compensation or compensation you may have. In accordance with the practice currently in force, the Compensation Board will invite an applicant to make further claims at the Board when they are sitting on the case and consider that it is obvious here that the applicant is entitled to further compensation or to more compensation. After all, the mention will not ignore information about requirements which makes it obvious that an applicant may have additional requirements which have just not been raised by the mention. However, the mention does not, of its own motion, raise the question of whether there might be additional requirements that the applicant wishes to make if there is no information that makes it obvious. We must expect that a change to a notification system will increase the processing time. This is due to the fact that cases at the Compensation Board will have a very long run, because there will be a significant task involved in thoroughly clarifying the matter. A notification system could also have the consequence that the Compensation Board will no longer be able to take rapid decisions in cases relating to claims which do not exceed DKr 3,500. It will no longer be able to take rapid decisions in so-called fast-track cases where no further claims are made on the applicant. At the same time, of course, there will be economic consequences associated with the proposal and they will have to be carried out more closely. In other words, it will come with a price if we change the scheme and the question is whether that price in terms of longer processing time and increased costs will be too high in relation to the result that we want to achieve. All victims must be well through the system, and all victims must receive the right compensation. But I'm not sure this is the way to do it. That is why I think we should look at whether there are other options for solutions. For example, we are going to have to do something like this. Take a closer look at the guidance given or the role of aid lawyers? It is obvious that we can support victims of crime throughout the process in which they are engaged, in other words, both in criminal proceedings before the courts and in the process of compensation which may come after them. Of course, all victims must receive the compensation to which they are entitled. This is undoubtedly our main focus in these considerations, and this is really the focus I would like to take forward. However, once again, it is important for me to stress that the Compensation Board, as it is today, is already obliged to ensure that the case is sufficiently informed regarding the claims applied for. The proposers, with the publisher, require the government to submit a bill during the current parliamentary year. Changes to the system such as those we are talking about require, and I think my speech has illustrated this, relatively thorough reflection. The amendment of the application system to a notification system implies a fundamental and fundamental change in, or at least position on, the whole of the existing victim compensation system. It can, for example, be done. the role of the courts in a new system. And to ensure the quality of legislation, it is not reflections or changes that can be over in a few months, and now, in fact, there are less than a few months left of this parliamentary year. It will also be a change which, as described, could mean longer processing times at the Compensation Board, and no victims can be served with that. Long processing times and therefore long waiting time to move forward in life are not the wish we have for how victims should be treated. Against this background, I would suggest that the proposal could end up with a report in committee. I would like to commit myself to returning to the Committee on Legal Affairs by the end of 2022 with possible solutions. This is an important matter. But it is also important that we get the right solution. We owe it to the victims. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174455	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174458	Well, I think it sounds good if, after all, the Minister will be willing to investigate some things. I don't know if I heard right. 2022 • it seems that there is a very long time to go. But the Minister can say something about that. The minister says that all victims must receive the compensation they are now entitled to. The only problem is that they do not get it, and the Institute for Human Rights has documented it. They've gone over 100 cases, and this is a case of violence and rape. These are some of the most common things that they have looked at here, and the challenge is that the right things are simply not being sought. It is because it is the wrong person himself who has to take care of this, and in many cases the work of the welfare lawyer has ceased, and then the victim stands with it himself. And I hope somewhere that the minister can see that's not fair. And we need to resolve it so that we ensure that the victims are, of course, given what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174603	I agree with that. In other words, we are in a situation where the study, which I have also read, documents or at least makes it probable that this is the case. I think we should also consider what kind of grip we are taking. Now, in the second context, we have been talking about how to develop the assistance system, which is, of course, support during the trial at the moment for the victim in the case. And one might well imagine, and I am not saying that it should be the solution, that the lawyer who followed the victim through the case from the notification and perhaps even with some of the new rape initiatives before the notification and forward could follow the case further and thus ensure that the demands were raised. It is just another possible way forward to ensure that you get the compensation that is needed without necessarily having to break up the whole system we have now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174700	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174709	In any case, I believe that we would come a step along the road of the aid attorney following it to the door. For what is the challenge, as the Institute for Human Rights' report shows, is that especially those people who have cognitive or mental disabilities or illnesses simply cannot take care of this task themselves, and that means that they are left on the platform. Well, they give an example with a girl who is sexually abused, and what you can actually read from her case is that she has been given lasting but, but that never is applied for, probably because she has to do it herself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174743	Well, as I recall, the study and report that has been made and referred to here were precisely these situations of victims with cognitive or psychological challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174754	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174756	Thank you. One of the things I was most surprised at was this investigation, which shows that out of 100 cases, only three cases in one category claimed compensation for lasting damage. And then, in those cases of very serious crimes, such as repeated sexual abuse, no claim was made for compensation. It's pretty violent. Now I am more familiar with the system of occupational injury and with the crimes committed by employers against their employees against their health. After all, no one came into a union without a thorough investigation into the possibility of compensation. And if you stand all alone, you can imagine how difficult it can be when you are in that particular situation where you have really had an experience that sits in you for your whole life. So something has to be done. So I would like to ask the Minister: is it true that it is only at the end of 2022 that the Minister will deliver? Isn't it possible to do something at the end of 2021? We risk having a bourgeois government before that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174907	Ah, the risk I think is obvious. When I say by the end of 2022, it is not because I mean Christmas Eve 2022. In other words, to be honest, I think my speech was long and complex, and it is just an illustration of what a complex system we are dealing with and what some issues need to be dealt with. So, instead of saying that we do it quickly, I think we should shake hands with each other, it would be my call to the Legal Affairs Committee to write a wise report which puts this work into practice and provides a time frame, so we believe that the solution we find also takes into account all the elements and problems that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174956	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420174957	Okay, there is, of course, mostly a chance that we will have a choice by 2022, and that, of course, this could also help to prolong the process. Imagine if the minister wasn't ministers in this field anymore, but that he was somewhere else... we were about to start convincing a new person. And I recognise that the Minister has given a hand to the SF with this good proposal, and I also recognise that it can be complicated matters that we need to work on. But the replacement part is described, so it's pretty easy to go to, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175040	No, I think using the wording, that it is fairly easy to go to, maybe it is enough to tighten it up. I mean, I actually think this area is complex and I think I have also pointed to some of the issues that we need to address and which give it this complexity. So instead of trying to pretend that it can be fixed quickly, I think we should be realistic and expectant in relation to what can actually be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175106	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief comments. And then we'll get ready for the first rapporteur, and that's Mr. Henrik Møller of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175129	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the Minister that it was a long and a little complex speech in relation to the matter. And on this occasion, of course, I should also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for this. I would like to start by saying that, of course, we in the Social Democratic Party agree that victims of crime must receive proper treatment. They must, of course, be taken seriously throughout the legal system and helped well in life. And here we also recognise that compensation plays a crucial role. Like the Minister, we also agree that all victims should receive the compensation to which they are entitled. And there we got a question which showed that there may well be some challenges at that exact expense, and of course there should not be. What the proposers are proposing is that, in future, the Compensation Board should deal with the case of the Board on the basis of a so-called notification principle, contrary to the application principle that is the case today. I would like to say straight away that this sounds sympathetic, but as the Minister also mentioned, we are not 100% sure that this will necessarily be the best way to help the victims. And it is a bit of a starting point, for example. could help to create a longer processing period, but could also be costly. In addition, it is of course also important to maintain that it is the case today that if the mention is aware that the applicant is entitled to further compensation or compensation, then, according to current practice, the mention will invite the applicant to make further claims. However, as the Minister for Justice has explained, we are open to discussing the issue and to see if we can find a solution together. But it will certainly require careful consideration because it will involve a fundamental and fundamental change in the existing system. I also think it is important that we ensure that this will be a real improvement for the victims; that is, after all, the most important thing. So in these words, we agree with the Minister for Justice's proposal to make a report in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175341	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175344	Thank you for the floor. It is not long ago that there was a proposal in this Chamber and there it was unfortunately not the same rapporteur who had his roots in the so-called Se and Hør case, where some politicians were subjected to defamation and ended up not getting paid anything in compensation. We all thought this was a huge problem, and we had had the Minister agree to get some compensation here, and it came into a legislative proposal, or that means that we could not solve the specific issue, but we certainly solved it for the future. Does the Socialist rapporteur not think that there is something rather strange about us being very quick to provide compensation for politicians who are subjected to violations, but when it comes to victims of violence and rape, things are going a little slower?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175439	I would like to refer to what has been said here, namely that we are willing, in a report, to look at this and to work through something that is connected, not only for politicians but also for ordinary citizens. Now I think that, as politicians, we are ordinary citizens in relation to this compensation system. So we're open to it. Well, I cannot recall the case referred to in relation to Se and Hear, but when it is put up in that way, it does not of course sound reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175513	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175515	I do not think that is very fair, and that is why I think that we have a common interest in ensuring that victims actually receive the compensation that they are actually entitled to, and that is just not happening today. I would just like to ask the rapporteur because the rapporteur said that it was not certain that a principle of notification instead of a principle of applicant was the right one: does the rapporteur not think that a principle of notification is sensible when it comes to patients' injuries or occupational injuries? Is it not very reasonable that there is, as it were, an automatism in getting the compensation you need?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175554	Yes, but what was the starting point was both the cost-intensive but also the time-process, and that is what we need to ensure in relation to the report and the further work that needs to be done, in the same way as what Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt refers to here. But that is a change in the system, and that is what we need to take some time to resolve.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175617	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175634	Thank you for that and thank you to the SF for bringing the question up here today. It is, of course, a factually based proposal. Too many people are being cheated on the rightful compensation due to them in the eyes of the goose. The most recent study shows that too. You should do something about that. When we have provided in here for people to be compensated, they are supposed to have it. It does not mean that the system should subsequently be so complicated that no one can find out. Nevertheless, we have to say that the Compensation Board has not been conspicuous by an extremely flexible procedure over recent years. At any rate, there have been so many cases accumulated that one eventually had to have assistance from the Chamber Attorney himself, where an employee traveled from Vester Farimagsgade in Copenhagen to Viborg to help deal with some cases. Apparently no one else could find out, although I have to say that this type of case is in the lighter part of the law. That's where I'm gonna have to give Mr. Kevin. Christian Juhl is absolutely right. After all, these are the types of cases that you sit in a trade union office and arrange for Members, and these are the types of cases that are fairly clear. It is therefore surprising that so many people do not get what they have to do, but that is the case. In this connection, I cannot help mentioning what appeared last week, on 15 April, at all the Danish civil service lawyers' offices, namely that now the compensation board has also used compulsory self-service solutions, both for citizens and for party representatives, that the digital self-service should be the primary channel of communication, etc. It is, of course, entirely in line with the state's strategy, but that does not make it any easier for Mr. and Mrs Jensen to report their demands. We might as well say that out loud. So, yes, it is a problem that people do not get what they need and that it is simply too complicated and that, by the way, it takes far too long to get it. The question is what to do about it. What the SF is proposing here is one model. I miss in this model an overview of how much extra time that model will take and what it will cost, because I think that in the current circumstances, if you ask the Compensation Board to do the work, it will take a very long time and cost a great deal of money. Perhaps one might consider, as the Minister of Justice also mentioned, that the legal title of the criminal case is extended to report these things as well and to carry out what should we say in simple correspondence on this matter. In fact, I think that would be a cheaper solution. So summa summarum: The left is happy to share in a story. It is, of course, free to say here, because what is really important is what the report says, but I think that we have the same intentions, namely to get this right, so that people can also get the compensation to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175953	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420175955	After all, it was the Left who put forward the proposal to ensure compensation for politicians who are subjected to defamation. Does the Left not think that it is a little bit strange that, when it comes to securing victims' compensation, which they are actually entitled to, it goes a little slower? And should we not all take responsibility for giving victims the compensation they are entitled to? After all, these are victims of violence and rape. In other words, these are very crude things, and I think, after all, that it may be in a slightly different league from politicians who are subjected to defamation. But I'm not supposed to be here sorting out crimes, but just say that I think we should be as good at getting this done as soon as possible. After all, the Minister has already put forward a proposal on this matter. We have done so. And this has a long-term outlook for over a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420180053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420180054	That is the thanks you get for standing and commending SF for making a good proposal, so that so many mistakes are put into an issue as was the case here. The proposal on tort that we have been debating was not for politicians. It was based on a specific case of a politician who was on display in Se and Hør, but I should like to say that this is a general proposal that the SF also agreed with, so that we should also regulate the situations where what is called tort can be implemented, namely where there has been damage that cannot be done financially. So that was one thing. The second thing is that it was a change in law behind it. What we are talking about here is the procedure. Let's not dig the trenches any deeper than we have to. We fully understand that this is going too slowly and that it needs to be improved. The second proposal on tort should now also work in its field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420180149	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420180151	Well, I just want to finish by asking if Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen believes that it will provide greater certainty that you will have what you need if there is a principle of review instead of an applicant principle. Will it provide greater or less certainty that you will have what you need if we change the scheme, so that in future there will be a principle of review, in which it is actually the Compensation Board that is responsible for the fact that the case is disclosed and that you will get what you need?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420180223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420180226	It will certainly give you greater certainty that you will get what you need. There is no doubt about that. Whether it is economically the way to do it is quite a different matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420180235	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420180256	Thank you. There is no doubt that compensation must be made easier for victims. It is hard and expensive for society in the long run that one is not entitled to compensation if one does not equal ability or ability to apply for what is right or relevant. Compensation must also be granted more quickly than is currently the case. We support the proposal, but we reserve the right to supplement it with various improvements, for example. automatic provision of psychological assistance if you have been subject to personal risk crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420180341	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420180437	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the SF for the motion for a resolution, which proposes to move from a so-called principle of application to a principle of notification when it comes to compensation for victims of violence. Today it can be very difficult for the victim of violence. Not only are you exposed to the terrible experience of being subjected to a violent incident, but then when applying for compensation to the Compensation Board a whole lot of work has to be done and you have to go down to the details of everything from period to period and post by post in what you are applying for, there is a risk that it will lead to a restraint in relation to who is applying for it here. This may mean that there is a different legal situation when it comes to compensation, for people who have the resources to seek mail for post and period for period, and people who do not have the skills and resources to seek mail for post and period for period. Therefore, we must be honest that it is a huge problem that there are people who do not have the resources to search in the right way. I would therefore go further than those who have just said that this is a sympathetic proposal and say that it is a proper proposal to create the necessary legal certainty for more people. The only thing that the Radical Left has in this connection is that it will require some funding to have more cases dealt with and more case handling. That is why we fully support the intentions behind the very important motion for a resolution here, but we must first get some funding to put it into practice. So we fully support the intentions of this motion for a resolution, and we also support the work of drawing up a good report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420180701	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420180730	Thank you. Thanks to SF for focusing on this serious problem. Of course, when you have been the victim of a crime and have the right to compensation, you must also have it. It is important that we as a society do not make it more difficult than it needs to be. I mentioned before that I have worked in other contexts with substitutions. After all, I do not have a high level of education and certainly not a degree in law, but I think that we must find a solution that can help those people who are so much in trouble, as this study mentioned in the proposal shows, particularly because there are many situations where the victims are marked by the consequences of what they have been exposed to for a long time to come, in the form of, for example, the death penalty. stress, depression and anxiety. All these things can make it really difficult for the individual to make an adequate claim for compensation himself, and even if it is for a public authority which has a duty to provide guidance, it is not always the case that the person concerned is able to do so. Applying a notification principle instead of an application principle would seem to be a good way of resolving it. I certainly believe that shortcuts can be found in this way, because then there is a case officer from the start who can help ask for the relevant documents and guide on how to find these documents. I think that many of those who are entitled to compensation have a lot more to think about and that it is therefore difficult for them. I believe that compensation in many cases helps to make the subsequent course of a victim a tiny bit easier, and I think that we in here at Christiansborg should help to support that. Often the debates in this room are about how we can punish the criminals harder and lock people up for longer, but the whole focus on the perpetrator makes us often forget about the victims. And of the things we can do for the victims, this is just one step. Some of the other things we can do are to ensure that digital violations are properly covered by the criminal code, that the police have the resources to investigate such cases and that they have the training necessary to deal with the victims of physical or psychological attacks or violations better. I hope the Minister will not use that to say that we will have to have even more time to find out. At least these are some things that we can focus on. We should also focus on preventive work, and it is not only to create special clubs for young people who are having a hard time, although it is also important. However, we must ensure that children are already taught what is right and what is wrong in primary school, because unfortunately, the new digital reality has shown that many more people are exposed to liable crimes than have been the case in the past. Where there was one perpetrator and one victim in the past, for example, the sharing of naked images can quickly involve many thousands of perpetrators, all of whom violate the same victim, and one can well imagine how violent it can be. I do not think that anyone in here will be able to look herself in the eye if they say to a 15-year-old girl who has been the victim of such a crime that she herself must make a full application for compensation. This must, of course, be something that a public authority helps with. I think it is a good proposal that the SF has put forward and the Enhedslisten can support the proposal. We would also like to appeal to the Minister not to extend it until 2022, but perhaps even during the summer some clever people in the Ministry will have some thought to do so, so that work can be started as soon as possible. There seem to be a great many good people in the committee who can contribute, and I think it can only go too slowly to get started on such a good proposal as this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181150	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Now the Enhedslisten has been cleaned up and we welcome the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181212	Thank you very much. I am, of course, what is known in the SF as the substitute worker and note that I fail to say more in the sentence ^ as Mads Andersen unfortunately is on sick leave today. However, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the SF for submitting this motion for a resolution, and I would like to thank my excellent colleague Karina Lorentzen, with whom I am elected in the great circle of South Jutland, for making the proposal. It is proposed to strengthen the right to compensation for victims of violence, and there we are very much in agreement with the intention behind the proposal. Today, when a case has been sentenced, aid for victims of violence is dropped. The victim shall not be represented by any assistance lawyer after the case has been referred to the Compensation Board. And that means that victims of violence must find out for themselves how to get compensation, and it is not straightforward at all. Rather, it is a rather complicated process. A recent survey, which we also heard about earlier in the day, or the evening, shows that the victims do not apply to a large extent for relevant claims, and that study was based on 100 cases back in 2017, which showed that only 3 out of the 100 cases claimed compensation for permanent damage. In cases involving very serious crimes, such as repeated sexual abuse of minors, no claim was made for permanent harm in any of the cases. In the Conservative People's Party we share the intention behind the resolution. Victims of violence must be able to obtain the rightful compensation even if the victim himself is unable to seek compensation. However, we believe that there is a need to clarify the consequences of dealing with the claims board in accordance with a notification principle. We also believe that the Compensation Board should be neutral. So we want the government to call for negotiations so that we can learn more about the arguments for and against the principles of notification. We cannot therefore support this proposal until we have clarified the consequences of a notification principle, and we look forward to getting this from the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181419	There is a brief comment from Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181422	I'm gonna want to ask you a question for the temp anyway. It is because there are others who have said: Oh, it may be such a bit costly etc., and maybe it prolongs the time for all the other cases etc. Does the Conservative rapporteur think that it can actually be too expensive to provide people with compensation which they are entitled to but which they do not get because they are not able to apply for it properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181455	People have to get the compensation they're gonna get. Whether it will be too expensive is one of the things we need to clarify in the questions we have to the government, but as a starting point people must have the compensation to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181506	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181508	But it is, of course, a question of economy, and I just want to know whether victims of violence and rape, whatever it may cost to deal with their cases, must be given better access to the right compensation as well. We see that it just doesn't happen in every case today, and so we leave these victims on the platform. So can it be too expensive? Can there be a price that is not worth paying to ensure that people get what they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181544	I think I replied to that in my previous reply: it should cost what it costs for people to get their compensation. That's gotta be it. What the price is and whether it is possible to make at all because it is a rather complicated proposal • we must, of course, clarify when the government calls into the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181605	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181626	Victims of violence must be helped. When you have been subjected to an attack, you have to be able to rely on society to take over, catch the attacker and punish him. At the same time, as is possible today, we must be able to obtain compensation. And there is probably a lot to be said about the current model, but let us try to reverse it a little. How do we ensure that far fewer and at best no one is subjected to rape or violent assault? We know that male non-western descendants are more than twice as criminal as Danish men. We know that male descendants from non-western countries are more often sentenced to a custodial sentence. We know that almost one in four who were convicted of rape in Denmark in 2020 were foreigners, with no Danish citizenship. These are explosive overrepresentations time and time again. If we are really to guarantee future victims of violence justice, we must also ensure that foreign policy is resolved from the bottom up. An asylum freeze must be introduced, foreigners must support themselves, and criminal foreigners must be deprived of their Danish citizenship and expelled. Danish citizenship should not be granted to foreigners from Muslim countries who are over-represented in crime statistics. The punishment for violence, rape and threats must be increased. The concern for the safety of the Danes must be higher than the consideration for obsolete conventions. It does not seem that the current model is working optimally and other proposals have been put forward during the course of the debate, which I actually find interesting, for example by extending the appointment of the appointed lawyer until the victim has received his money. That is why New Citizens will also look forward to the committee's proceedings and, hopefully, how we can solve this problem in the best possible way, so that the victims of violence can get their own compensation. Once again, however, it is also a question of ensuring that the number of victims of violence is reduced, and that is precisely why we in the New Citizen are fighting so hard to resolve immigration policy from scratch. We owe it to the Danes, both today and in relation to all those who are coming after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181843	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420181904	Thank you for your fine treatment and thank you for many fine indications that we have a problem here that needs to be resolved. And I look forward to having a report on this, of course, and to the Minister of Justice setting in motion a work which, I hope, will result in helping victims to get the compensation they need. I think that justice should never depend on who you are. But it is just a fact that it does, because it has been documented by the Institute for Human Rights and VIVE. If you want justice when you have been raped, it is clearly best not to have a cognitive or mental disability, for then the risk that the case ends with a plea is four times higher than if you do not have a disability. And if you're right, the differences won't stop, because your access to compensation is probably also significantly lower. At any rate, we can see that victims generally have problems in obtaining what they are entitled to, and we must expect that this problem is even greater for people with cognitive disabilities because they simply find it difficult to understand what it is that they have to collect documentation and what deadlines they have to meet. It simply does not work in a community governed by the rule of law. And that is no good at all when, at the same time, we know that people with disabilities have a greater risk of being subjected to violence or rape than the average of the population. In fact, one in five victims of violence or rape is a person with disabilities. And so they are over-represented, over-represented, even over-represented, in our legal system. But back to the question of compensation, which is, of course, the focal point of this proposal. It is Elmer Lawyers who, on behalf of the Institute for Human Rights, have gone through the practice of 100 decisions at the Compensation Board for Victims, and it is important to say here that they focus on victims in general, not only on victims with disabilities. They have looked into whether the expected claims for compensation and compensation were raised in the cases they were examining. The 100 cases were randomly selected and Elmer Lawyers found that in about one fifth of the cases examined it cannot be ruled out that the victims would actually have been entitled to additional compensation and compensation than that applied for and awarded. Only in three cases had compensation been sought for lasting but. In other words, victims are in danger of being cheated of compensation. They are not being applied for themselves and, as I shall explain later, they are, in fact, alone in the task of doing so. In examining these 100 cases, it has of course not been possible to select cases of victims with disabilities, but the reporters' expectation is that if it is difficult for victims in general to obtain proper compensation, there will be correspondingly greater difficulties for the group with mental and cognitive disabilities because they will have fewer resources to speak their own case and they will also have special challenges in understanding written communication. And as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen said a moment ago, it is now necessary to upload everything digitally, and it is to be expected to constitute an even bigger barrier. This report has also asked the aid lawyers how they see it here, and half of the aid lawyers say that they agree that the victim's own resources are important in terms of compensation or compensation. And that cannot be reasonable, because it suggests that there is very fragile legal certainty. The challenge, as has also been mentioned today, is that the task of the aid lawyer will be completed once a judgment has been handed down. And that is what happens, even if the claim for compensation has not been finalised and forwarded to the Compensation Board. And in the report, half of the aid lawyers say that they are often contacted by their clients after the appointment has expired. In short, they need help to seek compensation, but the help is not there, for the appointment is over. So we have a problem that we must address, both for victims in general, but I think we owe it to victims in particular to help with disabilities. The very big problem, as has also been suggested, is that the rules on compensation for people who are victims of dangerous crime are based on this principle of application. This means that the Compensation Board only deals with the claims applied for by the victim and that you have to explain your claims very specifically and document them. It requires quite a lot of overview and knowledge about how and what to apply for, but also about finding the documentation. And since the appointment of the welfare lawyer and the lawyer generally ends at the end of the trial, the victim is left with the sole application. And here there are a number of information and deadlines which the victim himself must keep informed of victims with special needs, who may not understand it either, and this may lead to the failure of the demands that he has actually made. I would like to give an example which is in this report. It's about a young woman who's diagnosed with lighter-grade retardation. She's been sexually abused since 12 years of age. It appears from her explanation in court that she has tried to educate herself on vuc, but that she has had to give it up. It also appears that she has been medicated, probably due to mental illness. A remuneration of DKK 75,000 has been awarded by the court and then by the Compensation Board, but nothing else. No further compensation or compensation has been claimed. It has not been examined at all whether the abuses have caused her a lasting mental illness, but whether she will actually be entitled to compensation for loss of employment. And it's quite strange, all the time that we know that a lot of victims who have been sexually abused suffer with late followers. They're affected for the rest of their lives. Moreover, the principle of eligibility by the Compensation Board is in contrast to the principle of occupational injury and injury to patients. In fact, this applies to a principle of review rather than to an applicant principle, and once the damage has been notified, the authority takes over, and then they are responsible for informing the case, and it is also their responsibility to examine the claims for damages. I would like to set another example, and for example the review showed a case with a woman who had been subjected to partner violence and she was also in alcohol treatment. She is asked to submit additional documentation in order to obtain compensation. She never does. Why do we not know, but I wonder if it is possible that her whole life situation and the fact that she herself is facing the challenge of seeking and obtaining that documentation mean a great deal. I think so. And that is why I think we need a reviewer principle; secondary it would be good to have an aid lawyer who also assists the victim throughout. It is just as important for a victim with a disability to get redress and feel that justice is done both by punishing the perpetrator, but of course also by getting the compensation for pain and pain and the possible lasting but, as has been done. And I think it is politically a little strange that we are very quick to put up the penalty and argue that this is what we are doing for the victims, but that when it comes to concrete initiatives to help the victims move forward in their lives, things often go a little slower, and sometimes I think we are failing the victims. But after all, I do not think that we should talk ourselves into a hole because we have moved one step further today. And, of course, I would like to thank the Minister for setting work in motion, and I hope that we can provide some solutions, because that is just what we need for the victims. It is quite awful that you are cheated on a compensation to which you are entitled when you have been subjected to a very serious abuse. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420182759	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420182812	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 22 April 2021. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF, for the explanatory statement of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420182846	Thank you. We and the Left have asked for this question debate because we can see that there is a problem with the local lanes and the financing of their maintenance, and especially with the local railway East. This is how a local railway is the lifeblood of the province and of the areas they serve. The railway in Denmark is not only the main network between the major cities, the railway in Denmark is also the local lanes. I grew up in an area with a local track, I grew up on Lolland, where the Lollands track runs between Nakskov and Nykøbing Falster, and when I grew up as a school student and a high school student on those edges, I was completely dependent on the Lollands track both to get to school, but also to see my friends in my spare time. Similarly, there are people who depend on the local lanes elsewhere in the country right now. The East railway on Stevns is used daily by a great many people who are going to work or school, and in fact 1 million passengers use the East railway, but right now the East railway has to get new rails, and if not the East railway for new rails, it will stop being able to drive. This will mean a breakdown in everyday life for those who depend on the local and eastern lanes. Therefore, we would like to have a discussion on how we can solve this problem. There should be no doubt that we may disagree in this regard on the means, but in the SF we believe that we must save the Eastern railway and we must ensure that this problem does not arise on other local railways. I would like to read out a text which we, together with the government, the Social Democratic Party, and the Radical Left... Fourth Vice-President Sorry, the text comes after the Minister has answered the question, where the rapporteur is given the opportunity to come up to the floor and put forward a proposal for adoption. This is only the reason for the question). Okay, fine, then I won't read a text. But I look forward to a debate in which I hope we can agree that at least the situation of the East Railway will be resolved and hopefully also that this problem will not arise on other local railways, which are of course extremely important for those who use them daily.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420183133	Thank you for the reasons for the question. We now come to the answer to the question, and the first to speak is the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, I see. That is the order in which the ministers have chosen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420183150	Thank you. It must be attractive to settle in rural areas and therefore it is necessary that we have well-functioning public transport. That is what we in the government mean, and we particularly think so when we say, of course, that Denmark is too small a country for big differences. It is a condition in the country that there is longer between people, because it is more sparsely populated, but it must also be the case that you can get to your youth education, your work or your leisure activity, even if you live a little further in the countryside. It must not be the case that families living in those areas have to have more cars in order to take care of ordinary activities. And we think that public transport is important, whether you live in Towerby or if you live in Tøllløse. Concrete traffic plays an important role in maintaining citizens and businesses in the area, and at the same time it can help new citizens and new businesses to find it attractive to move to. Local public transport supports local development and the balance between the country and the city. The regions have been given responsibility for the regional development area and, within that area, the regions are responsible for tasks involving regional transport companies, the development, operation and continuous maintenance of the railways locally. It is an essential strength that the responsibility for these areas lies with the regions, because they can adapt their priorities in the area of development to the local wishes and needs that may exist. Priority being given to citizens is helping to increase the value of decisions taken. At the same time, the development tasks of the regions are fully financed. In 2021, a State block grant of approx. 2 billion kr. On top of the block grant comes the municipalities' development contribution and a state investment grant. The investment grant, granted by the Ministry of Transport, is precisely intended to ensure the maintenance and investment of the runways on an ongoing basis. At the same time, the regions have several opportunities to borrow. This applies, among other things, to: loans towards the cost of investing in passenger rolling stock or the cost of investments in railway infrastructure. It is the responsibility of the regions to give priority within the economic framework, and this means that each region can give priority to the needs and wishes of the individual region, but it also means, of course, that there is a responsibility to make the most of the money, among other things. by continuous maintenance of the lanes. Local railways in some parts of the country are of great importance for the movement of citizens and local development. It is an important task that we have put in the hands of the regions and they have a financial framework to give priority to tasks within. That is why I also hope that the regions will continue to shoulder their responsibility to give priority to the framework in the area of development that they have every year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420183439	Thank you. And a brief comment from the rapporteurs is now available, and Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left asked for. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420183452	Thank you to the Minister for the Interior, as it may be in this context, but thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing for the presentation. I would just like to ask in concrete terms whether the government recognises that there is a challenge with the local railways in relation to funding, in other words in relation to the fact that in the regions it is the responsibility that you have received an ongoing operating grant to keep it up to date, but that at some point you need to make a bigger investment in a replacement of the rails. We know it a little from our cars, for example; you send it to the workshop, it is serviced, the filters are replaced, but at some point you have to go and get a new car if that's what you need. So does the government recognise the challenge, and hence the fact that there is a special situation that cannot be covered within what we know today as the regional operating grant?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420183533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420183536	I'd rather not go into the railway engineering part of it. But I can certainly say so much that since the questioner's own party colleague Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt, Minister for Transport, made a report, a very thorough report which said that there was no need for it. Now I have not been as long in the Folketing as the questioner has, but I have been in here for a long time enough to know that if there is someone in here who cares about ensuring proper conditions, including in rural areas, then it is Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt, and his report showed at the time that there was no further need beyond that. But that does not mean, of course, that it is necessarily valid today, but it was the assessment that was in around 2016-2017, and after all, it is also necessary to take that into account in the equation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420183614	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. The next person to answer the question is the Minister for Transport. We're having a little trouble getting our butt on the platform running up and down. It locks a little, but I hope there won't be any back injuries from it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420183648	It may be that I have to kneel in order to be properly heard. Thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, and thank you for inviting us to today's debate. I've been looking forward to it. The privacy lanes are a subject which is very close to both the Minister for Home Affairs and myself. It is an important element in the cohesion of our country. Private lanes are not the largest part of our public transport. Overall, they cover over 510 km of track spread over 13 lanes. Measured by the number of climbers, they accounted for about 4 per cent. of the total train running in 2019. It doesn't sound like much, but the private railways still play an important role for the local areas. Privatbanerne meets several needs. For the individual who makes use of them, they can make everyday life hang together without a car, thus facilitating transport to work and school. For local areas that can attract new inhabitants, and for trade and business, they are important, and also for society more generally, as they support a link between city and country. In other words, the private courts are central to ensuring that everyday life can be linked in the local areas and for the cohesion between the country and the city. I consider this to be a very high priority as the Minister for Transport, and I know that the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing do too. It's a high priority to the government. The economy for the operation and maintenance of the 510 km private orbits comes largely from the annual state subsidies to the regions. Part of the funding, the block grant for regional development, falls within the Ministry of the Interior and Housing, as the Minister has just said. However, the investment grant for the private railways is a matter for the Ministry of Transport, which is why I would like to say a few words about it. As a result of the municipal reform, the investment subsidy in 2007 was passed on to the regions, as the regions also took over responsibility for the private railways from the counties. According to the initial agreement, the investment grant was to be transferred to block grants in 2016. However, the then government decided that the investment grant should continue unchanged. I therefore understand that this was in order to secure funding for the regions. The regions are therefore still receiving investment grants to this day. It amounts to 115,8 million in 2021. kr. Including the grant to Lille Nord. The subsidy is distributed to the regions according to the same distribution as when the regions were formed in 2007, in fact according to the same distribution as when the counties took over the private railways, and that was 20 years ago. Together with passenger revenue from the tracks, which in 2019 amounted to approx. 210 million In other words, it is these grants that ensure private railway operations. At the request of the Ministry of Transport, a report by Rambøll and Struensee & Co was prepared under the previous government in 2017. This described the infrastructure of the private railways, both the current state and the need for renewal. Overall, the conclusion was that the situation on the private lines was satisfactory. However, the report also concluded that there were two lanes left behind. One of them was the Eastern Railway, which has already been mentioned here in the debate and the other was the Lemvig Railway. But in general the condition was satisfactory. Danske Regioner has informed the Ministry of Transport that they have initiated an analysis through Rambøll, which will update the analysis from 2017. Therefore, the regions will have the total investment needs of the private runways calculated from 2021 until 2050 with a particular focus on the period from 2021-2035. The analysis is expected to be ready in a short time. If I understand correctly, it is probably already around the end of April that it will be ready. I look forward to an up-to-date basis that the regions will hopefully be able to use in their priorities in the coming years. We must take it very seriously that there has been a backlog on some lanes. In this context, I would not rule out the fact that it is time to consider a new allocation of investment subsidies, that is to say the distribution across the individual regions. As I have said, the distribution has remained unchanged for many years. Twenty years and I will not rule out the fact that time has run out of the current distribution. If the regions consider it a good idea to adjust the distribution across regions so that it better matches investment needs across regions, the government will be open to look at it I have also been asked to explain the government's view that more lanes are facing having to replace rails. Here I think it is important to look at it historically. According to the report I mentioned earlier from 2017, 389 km of private railway tracks were renovated between 1972 and 1991. Since the normal life of such a railway is 40-45 years, it is natural that several lanes face a replacement or refurbishing of rails. Since the regions took over the private lanes in 2007, and until the aforementioned report was drawn up in 2017, tracks of 10 km were renewed over the next 10 years. It is the government's view that, with the 2007 municipal reform, the regions accepted responsibility for the private railways under the conditions laid down, and it is therefore the government's starting point that the financing of the private railways is also the responsibility of the regions, with railing in mind. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that the government considers the private railways to be an important part of Danish infrastructure. They are important for the individual citizen, for the local areas and for the cohesion of society. Responsibility for this must remain local and regionally anchored close to where needs can be felt. This also applies to the priority of funding. However, we hear the concerns of the regions, and it may therefore be necessary to look at the distribution of the investment subsidy so that it better matches the distribution of the current investment need. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420184333	Thank you. A brief comment can be made by the rapporteurs. The first is sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420184341	Thank you very much. Can the Minister confirm that this state subsidy for which the Minister is responsible has not been indexed since 2007?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420184358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420184401	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420184403	There's only one brief comment in this round. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420184408	Then I shall try a question which might give a slightly more detailed answer. But the answer was, of course, very precise, we must give it to the Minister. I would like to thank the Minister for his speech in this House as well. I am really looking forward to hearing a little more about what the Minister is now opening up to, that is to say, this distribution. So it is true that there may be a difference between the distribution known today over the block subsidy, in relation to the rail kilometres, you might say, per. region. But I really look forward to hearing the Minister's explanation of that. Now the Minister says he would like to look at the historical as well. I would rather look forward and ask the Minister if he does not recognise that there is an urgent challenge. Now the Minister also mentions the Eastern railway. There may also be others who will be here shortly and stand in front of having to replace the rails. You can already see that the speed has been slowed down simply for safety reasons. That is not something you can just lift in a region, because it costs perhaps half a billion dollars, by being able to adjust a little in a block grant. Does the Minister not recognise that there is a particularly acute situation in these years precisely because it has reached an age when the rails on many of the local lanes are about to be replaced?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420184511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420184512	It is generally the case that there is a very long depreciation time on the railway, precisely because the service life is so long. That is why it is also clear that the subsidy granted can also be notified in combination with the loan possibilities which, among other things, include: can be secured through approval by the Ministry of the Interior. It is, of course, an overall picture that needs to be looked at there. I don't need to explain that to you, sir. Jacob Jensen, because Mr. Jacob Jensen also sits in a regional council on a daily basis with some of these tasks of finding the total distribution here. If we have not looked at the distribution of investment subsidies over these many, many years, then it is also clear that the investment needs that exist have not been taken into account in the process, and I fully recognise that there are two concrete paths which have relatively urgent needs. In addition, however, there are also a number of routes which will have an investment need in the slightly longer term. This is also what Danske Regioner's analysis needs to clarify. Therefore, I think it makes good sense to look into the figures and then compare it with the subsidy given and possibly recalculate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420184627	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. There are no more brief comments in this case. Now we are going to the debate and the general rules for short remarks, and the first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Valentina Berthelsen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420184706	After all, the East Railway is a life-snare in the area it serves. In our opinion, it is all the local lanes in the SF, and it may well be that there are more passengers who take the train on the main rail network every day between the major cities and that there are a lot of people who prefer to get in the car, but the local lanes are extremely important to those who use them every day. This applies to those who every day need a local railway like the East Railway to go to school, just as I had to, when I was in high school and in primary school and had to go with the Lollands track. This also applies to those who are going to work and who do not have a car or where the only car in the family is used by someone else. Just as my mother had to go with the Lollands track to work in Nykøbing Falster, there are also people who every day depend on the East track to get to their jobs. That's what keeps the local areas alive that these local lanes serve. We know that people live by where there are rails, where there are stations and where people can get around with public transport, and that is why the East Railway and other local railways are extremely important for the areas in which they are located. That is why we have been extremely concerned that the East Railway is now in a position not to be able to drive any longer and lack new rails. Region Sjælland says they don't have the money themselves, and we understand that. After all, we can listen to Danske Regions and the hearings that we have held, which highlighted the problem, that there is a maintenance delay on the local lanes, and that there is therefore good reason for this if some regions do not think they have enough money to maintain the rails on their local lanes. We believe that we must do something about this, and in the SF we have always said that we think this should be addressed in the infrastructure negotiations. Fortunately, we have been called for some infrastructure negotiations, and we are therefore delighted to discuss the subject where we believe that an increased maintenance grant should be found for the local lanes. It is of course surprising that we should be all this way, that is to say to stand in the Chamber today, without any solutions being found to the problem of the East Railway. It has created uncertainty in Region Sjælland, and it has created uncertainty among those who use the East Railway daily, and if it were all sorts of other local railways, the same would happen. I can't let that happen. We must be sure that our railways work and that the people who depend on them can get back and forth to school and to work. So it is no good for us to end up in a situation like the one we are facing today, where the East Railway has still not got new rails. That is why I am pleased that we are taking the debate. I also hope that we can agree on a solution, and I will read out a text for adoption, which we in the SF think will certainly take the first step. It is on behalf of us in the SF, of the Social Democratic Party, of the Radical Left and of the Enhedslisten that I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the operation and maintenance of the private railways are the responsibility of the regions. The Danish Parliament also notes that it is Region Sjælland's assessment that, with the state of the East Railway, there is a particular challenge for Region Sjælland, where it is necessary to renovate the rails in order for the functionality to be maintained. The Folketing further notes that the region does not believe that it can carry out this task itself and that it is an urgent task. The Danish Parliament notes that the government has presented a proposal for an infrastructure plan for state investment in infrastructure up to 2035 and that the government has invited the parties of the Danish Parliament to political negotiations on this subject. The Danish Parliament notes that, in the context of the ongoing infrastructure negotiations, the Government will present a proposal for possible priority for the rail network to the East Railway and other local railways. • V 111).
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185206	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185211	Thank you. I would actually like to sign the rapporteur's speech. This is an important issue, and the SF must indeed have the cadeau when it comes to the specific situation we are in. However, I also think that the rapporteur should probably try to look inwards, because if you look at the Rambøll report that came in 2017, you have known for quite a number of years now that this maintenance delay is actually so serious that the train stops driving in 2023 because even at reduced speed, fewer seats, and what else they have come up with, then the rails no longer work. I am surprised that the SF has not been more insistent in relation to, for example. to bring this in as part of the Finance Act the last two times. So I would like to ask the rapporteur quite specifically: how much has the Socialist People's Party actually done to resolve this urgent problem as a bottom-up task in relation to the two latest financial laws?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185312	It is a very good question, and I would like to say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that the Socialist People's Party fought so that blood splashed. Both we and other parties did so, but unfortunately there was no support for it in the negotiating room at the end, among other things. because we were faced with the forthcoming infrastructure negotiations. Although I was distressed at the time that I am pleased that the government is now prepared to make a proposal in connection with the infrastructure negotiations, which are currently under way, on how we can prioritise this rail network and the survival of the East Railway.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185348	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185351	So after so many years and after so much blood spilled and everything else, the SF is satisfied that the government would like to come up with something in a debate that has barely begun, when the SF itself could easily have included it as a perfectly logical topic of negotiation during these infrastructure negotiations? Is that really enough to please the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185418	No, certainly not. We still believe that we need an increased maintenance allowance for these local railways, and when it comes to the government's presentation, we want to see it before we believe it, as to whether it is good enough. But it is a better step on the way, after all, that we should take it up in the infrastructure negotiations that are under way and that the government is willing to look at it than it would have been if it had been postponed to the economic negotiations, which I have not yet started.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185444	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185447	I would like to start by thanking the SF for the cooperation on the consultation which was initiated by the Left and the SF, but of course with the support of the whole parliament, in the Transport Committee here earlier this year. That's when we got some data and some facts about these things. Thank you, too, for now being able to put this question. No matter how it ends, I think that's what I hear from the adoption text that was read out... you're starting to move, including from the government, in one direction or another. Of course, we will also sign for that, and we will look at how we can find a solution. I just want to ask whether it is crucial for the SF, from which box, if you like, the money comes from, i.e. whether it is in the infrastructure negotiations that have started so little, or whether you could imagine it might be somewhere else, for example in the economic negotiations, which are being made once a year, between the government and Danske Regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185539	I would say, as I have said all along, that it makes better sense for the SF to find the money in the infrastructure negotiations, because in the economic negotiations there is no 170 billion. kr., which we can prioritize to the railway and to the local lanes, if we wish. In the economic negotiations there is a health service and some regional buses that we must be careful not to downgrade in order to solve the challenges of the local and eastern lanes. That is why I am actually happier about the idea of taking it in the infrastructure negotiations. That is what I hear from the government and that they will even offer a solution, and then we will have to take it from there. But should it fail, Jacob Jensen must invite SF for a cup of coffee on the economic negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185627	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185628	I am always prepared to drink coffee with whom it should be, of course also the SF rapporteur. My point was that, in the economic negotiations too, there must of course be a priority between the various tasks and the framework that is laid down. That is the case, and it applies both to health tasks and to regional development tasks. Similarly, there must also be a priority in the infrastructure negotiations. There is, of course, some sort of framework that can be negotiated, but in that too we must give priority to roads, railways, bicycles and other things. So it was only an open question about whether it was very crucial for SF whether it was in one place or the other place. I have received an answer, but the rapporteur is, of course, welcome to repeat it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185703	I think I will not repeat it, but I would like to wonder why the Left has not been able to find it in its heart, that it would give priority to the local lanes in the infrastructure negotiations, where there is a totally abnormal pile of money precisely for installations and infrastructure projects such as this. the railways and the local lanes. I simply do not understand that. I was actually hoping that the Left would think that there was room for the local lanes in a debate like infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185736	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Thomas Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420185752	In the social democracy we are concerned with creating more coherence in Denmark and reducing the differences between the city and the country. The local lanes are important here because they play a key role in life outside the major cities. The 13 local railways are important for commuters using the train to and from work or the educational establishment, and in other words, the local lanes make everyday life for many people. They are important for mobility, as local lanes are also feeding lines into the state rail network. They are important for development because they attract settlement, growth, trade and business. They create life in the smaller urban communities and ensure cohesion throughout Denmark. The condition on the local lanes is generally considered to be satisfactory. It shows a report from Rambøll from 2017. Having said that, we know that there are regional differences. Some local lanes run very well, while other local lanes are challenged. The eastern track at Stevns is one of the places where there are particular challenges with delays in maintenance, the Lemvig track is another, and therefore there is a need for rail renewal in the coming years in order to maintain a functional train operation. Responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the local lanes rests with the regions. This was set out in the 2007 municipal reform, and the economy comes largely from the annual state subsidies to the regions. It is therefore also the responsibility of the regions to give priority to the overall resources in order to ensure the operation and maintenance of the local lanes so that they run optimally and efficiently. We believe that it is most right that responsibility lies locally and regionally, because in this way decisions are close to the wishes and needs of the citizens. At the same time, however, we understand the concerns of the regions concerned and the users of the lanes in relation to these worn-out lanes. We take this seriously, and we are very aware of the importance it can have for both the individual and the local community when public transport lags. In conclusion, I am pleased that we have taken this debate today and that we are focusing on the importance of good and well-functioning local railways. Too many citizens and the local community are an important prerequisite. I am also very, very pleased that the Social Democracy, together with the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left, can create a joint adoption text for this debate, so that we can jointly establish what we want for the local railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190032	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190037	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. I would just like to ask what the Minister of Transport has kind of lifted a bit of a veil or, at any rate, suggested that the government would like to look at, and therefore also on the part of the Social Democratic Party, I am assuming that an adjustment of the key known today. Can the Socialists' rapporteur say a little more about what lies behind it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190101	It is, of course, as I understand it, that the distribution key between the regions, and hence the local railways of the various regions, dates back to the time of the counties in the year 2000, and has then been cemented with the municipal reform in 2007. And it may well be that over the years there have been some slightly different developments on the individual local railways and in the individual regions. So it may be, when we get a better light on this, that it gives rise to a different distribution between the regions. But the prerequisite for this is that it is done in a proper way where such things are usually discussed, and that is precisely in the annual economic negotiations between the Ministry of Finance and the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190148	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190149	Yes, and the latter gives me just the opportunity to ask the following question: what does it mean in relation to the proposal for adoption, which the Socialists are also behind, that we want to take it up in the ongoing infrastructure negotiations? Does this mean that it is like the model or that it is the proposal for a model to be looked at, or is there also priority funding for any further investment in the local lanes? Is that how it should be understood, or what is the meaning of that wording in the text of the adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190218	In other words, the government has come up with a proposal for an infrastructure plan using 105.8 billion. kr. on infrastructure in Denmark for the next 14 years. And then we have set out that there is a negotiating reserve, and there all the parties of the Folketing can bid with wishes, and then we listen from the Social Democrats to what they want. And then we hope that we will be able to reach a broad agreement together. And if there is a broad desire among the parties to give priority to this, we have indicated, with the text of the adoption, that this is something that can be looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190256	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur. As I understand it, the rapporteur of the Left is ready for a rapporteur's speech, and that is Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190319	Thank you for the floor and I would also like to start by thanking my co-author from the SF for the question. I don't know exactly where Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen is. She's down there, so she can hear my gold grain from the platform. Thank you to the SF for asking this question, which one can say is a superstructure at the hearing that we had in the Folketing not so long ago. It is clear, as several have said, that local railways are very many places of life in public transport. It's not just around the big cities. On the contrary, it is primarily in rural areas, and to illustrate this, I can quickly run through the 13 local lanes we have in this country: Hirtshalsbanen, Skagensbanen, Odderbanen, Lemvigbanen, Vestbanen ved Varde-Nørre Nebel, it is Lollandsbanen, Tølløsbanen, Odsherredsbanen, Østbanen, which we have talked about, Nærumbanen, Frederiksværksbanen, Lillenord ved Hillerød-Helsingør and Gribskov- og Hornbækbanen. It is just to emphasise that what we are talking about here is also rural policy. That is why we also have the Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs with us today, and I know that this is a subject which is very close to his heart, and it is also with us in the Left. As has already been said, it is the task and responsibility of the regions to run the local railways, but it is also the case that once in the next few years the railway body on which they are driven has to be replaced, and we can see that there are places on the eastern track which are currently in place, but in the years to come there are probably other places in the country where they need to be replaced. This will require exceptional investment, and the regions, fortunately for that, do not have tax law. That is to say, you are dependent on the financial framework that is negotiated once a year with the government in office at all times. That is why we believe that it might also be appropriate for the negotiations which will be taking place here very shortly, and we are certainly already preparing them in government offices, to look at how an economy can be organized so that we can resolve the problem which we know to be on the Eastern railway, but also on other local railways, because the problem will arise in the coming years. We hear from the regions themselves that they believe they need some 105 million. kr. annual. It is a figure which, of course, needs to be further qualified. I also know that the Ministry of Transport is currently counting on the size of this. We also know that it will cost 0.5 billion in the region. kr. To replace the rails, and we also know in concrete terms that on the Eastern railway they have been slowing down for a long time. This means that the service to the approx. One million people who use the East Railway per year have simply deteriorated because they are slowing down for safety reasons, and almost 10 years ago they began to pull the seats off the trains because they couldn't handle that much weight, and that was also for safety reasons. So this is something that has been going on for some time, but it is now that it is urgent. This is where it's become acute. That is also why we have been involved in this question. It is precisely in order to focus both on the Eastern rail network it is urgent but also on the other 12 local railways, which in a few years' time will probably face something similar and will have to replace parts of or all of their train tracks. There is then the question of the model you can choose. I hear that, and I would like to acknowledge that the government is already open to looking at the model, that is to say, both looking at the key that applies and which must be applied in the future, so that it might be more appropriate, in relation to where the rail kilometres are, and in relation to how the costs are actually distributed, but also looking at the extraordinary investments that will of course have to be made when these replacements come. It's not enough just to polish it. There, of course, we also have to look at these major investments. We would also like to be involved in discussing how this can be done. We're not locked on the model. We're just interested in finding a solution. As I said, we see that it is the responsibility of the regions to deal with it. That is why we also see that it is most natural to resolve this in the context of the economic framework that is agreed once a year between the government and the Danish Regions. It is against this background that I, on behalf of the Left and the Danish People's Party, will make the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the regions have a financial delay in replacing worn rails on several of the 13 local lanes around Denmark. The Danish Parliament also notes that the local lanes serve several million passengers annually. The Danish Parliament notes that it will result in further passenger flight from public transport if local railways such as the East Railway do not run optimally and continue to serve the passengers in the future. The East Railway alone in East Zealand serves over 1 million passengers a year and is a central part of public transport throughout the area. The Danish Parliament therefore instructs the government in the economic negotiations with Danske Regions this summer 2021 to prioritize the necessary funds so that the regions can plan with the necessary rail replacement from 2022 and the coming years. • V 112).
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190824	Thank you. The text of the adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190833	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen to raise this debate, partly for the rapporteur's speech. Now I could hear that the proposal for adoption by the Left used the wording that the government was required to resolve this in the annual economic negotiations between the Ministry of Finance and the government and the regions. After all, the negotiations between the government and the municipalities and the government and the regions are quite determinative of what is to happen in the Finance Act when we arrive at the month of August. That is why my brief question is this: what funding does the Left propose to finance this delay in its draft budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420190914	First of all, we don't know the size. That is what I was also trying to indicate in my rapporteur's speech. Danish regions have indicated that it is 105 million. kr. annual. I don't know if that's the right number, but you could imagine that. That is precisely why we have asked for an agreement that the Ministry of Transport should look at those assessments and see if they are right, and then see what the Ministry of Transport will come up with. So it is clear that the fact that we know what it really is for a size is, of course, part of the basis for us to move forward at all. And then, of course, there's something about how fast this is going to be. There are places where it can go fast and there are places where it can go several years. So it's again about which model you choose. Is it a loan model, or is it a repayment model over a shorter or longer number of years? So there are many different options, and before we know that model, it is hard to say what it really is for funding to be used. However, it is clear that it must of course be financed on its own merits.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191006	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191007	That is exactly right. Either way, it has to be financed, and there is my short question: what funding will the Left give? Whether it's the 105 million. kr. We should like to point out that this is not the case at the moment. And I think it is quite objective, given that we have such a good debate here, which has been raised by the Left itself, that we have also thought about what kind of funding we want to use. Should there be cuts in some places, should new taxes be levied, or how will the Left finance this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191035	It is, of course, the case that there is funding, that there is also a priority, and that there are also things that can be done and that there are things that cannot be done, within the economic framework I can understand now that one is willing to look at it in the infrastructure negotiations. When you finance the financial framework that is being created once a year, as Mr. Thomas Jensen knows, between the government and Danske Regionser, that funds are found which are, of course, set aside in the Finance Act and, moreover, implemented in the Finance Committee as an act. It is also a priority within that framework, and it is, of course, a global priority within a financial law, which we will, of course, also point out when we get that far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191111	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191116	Thank you and thank you to the Left for calling together with the SF for this inquiry debate. Now it can be said that the infrastructure negotiations are slowly starting. At any rate, I have heard in the press about a large number of motorway projects which the Left would very much like to have included in an overall agreement, but I have not yet heard whether the Left also has the local lanes on their priority list in the infrastructure negotiations. Can the rapporteur clarify this for me?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191147	Yeah, I can clear that up. We do not have that in the infrastructure negotiations, but we do, in relation to the agreement that must be made between the government and the Danish Regions, because we believe that this is the right place to put it, precisely because it is the responsibility of the regions. That is why, in our view, we should not confuse these things. It may of course be difficult for outsiders, because an infrastructure is probably an infrastructure, whether it be one or the other, but there is just a task and a responsibilities that we think it is important to hold onto. On the other hand, we also believe that it should be resolved within that framework and therefore also with that model. I hear that the government is up to adjusting something in the current model. It could be other things that need to be included, new money or other, depending on the number and size that the Ministry of Transport comes back with on the issue that Danske Regioner put before the Danish Parliament's Transport Committee earlier this year in the hearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191233	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191234	I think that is a pity, of course, because it can be said that the more we are pressing for a solution, the better. We need clarification at the moment with the Eastern Railway by June at the latest, and there is certainly a chance in the infrastructure negotiations. And then I just have to say that despite the fact that there are 105 billion. kr. To work with, the Left will not prioritize that there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191300	It is not quite right to say that there is only that chance. That is why we are proposing in our text for adoption that it be possible to do so precisely in the context of the regional negotiations that will have to take place between the government and the Danish Regions, and they will have to take place before the summer break. So it can be said that the time course is the same, and by the way, the money will probably only come out and work in 2022, whether you choose one solution or the other. So in reality it will be the same. We just think that it is important to have that division of responsibilities, also in relation to where we find the funds in one agreement or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191332	The next brief remark is on Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191337	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. After all, we agree on long stretches about how important the Eastern railway is and that it needs to be saved and on the importance of the local lanes. But I pointed a little at my colleague from the Enhedslisten's question to the Left. I understand that we disagree as to where it is best to take up this case, where it is best to find money to save the Eastern railway. Therefore, I would like to ask the Left: now that the message from you is that you believe that they should be found in the economic negotiations, which are only going to start later than the infrastructure negotiations, does this mean that you will oppose when we in the SF and perhaps other parties come to the infrastructure negotiations with a desire to save the East Railway?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191427	No, I mean, we are not going into any infrastructure negotiations with ultimate demands; it would look really bad to us in the Left. We are going in with our priorities, and that is also what our transport rapporteur will of course present when we sit at the negotiating table. He may have done so at the first set-up meeting; I cannot say that, because of course this sort of thing is going on in a closed room. But, of course, we will not oppose that. We would just like to see and that is also what I am trying to repeat here and tell you where we see that it would most naturally be that a solution to this issue was found. However, it is clear that all parties are bidding in, and we are inviting in with our priorities in the infrastructure negotiations, and we believe, as I said, that the solution to a regional issue should lie in an agreement between the government and the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191506	Before I give the floor to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen for another round, I would just like to provide the service information that using the terms you and yours is also directly indictment. But here's to Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen for another round.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191523	Thank you. It is good to hear that the Left will not necessarily oppose it, but does this mean that we can count on the help of the Left? After all, there is a proposal for adoption, which the government is involved in, and which offers a suggestion as to how this problem might be resolved in the infrastructure negotiations. Whether this is the right model, we don't know yet, but as it gets taken up and there's a chance that we can do something about it, can we count on the support of the Left for us to do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191556	Well, I think it's very, very important, and I think it's good. And that is what I am taking as the expression of this question: we have jointly helped to push for something to happen and the government has moved forward. Because the government didn't want that. I know that the SF has fought for it together with others during the financial negotiations, and nothing came out of it, and it was because the government did not want it, simply. Now the government wants to look at it, to look at the model, the distribution and these things, and then also to look at how to solve it. That doesn't mean you find the money. I didn't hear that. I heard that there was an opening to it, but I did not hear that it was an indication by the government. So, of course, we will be very, very open to looking at what the solution is. I have just pointed out where I see the most natural thing about finding the means, but it should not separate us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191638	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left. And thank you for just getting the platform ready for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420191710	If we go back in time and look at when we made a municipal reform back in 2005-2006, they had a lot of questions that had to be resolved in relation to can and should institutions in municipalities. Some of them should be able to do the same in relation to state road networks, regional road networks and municipal road networks. If you go down and look at the individual municipality, many may recognize that when a road is reclassified to be a private common road for example, there is an agreement that means that the citizens of the road, in order for the municipality to give the gift to them, must deliver the way in flawless, newly renovated condition. However, this was not the case back in 2007 in relation to the local railways, because no one was given entirely new rail networks on the local railways in connection with the transfer of responsibility to the new regions. There were some who took over some grid that was newer, and some who took over something that was older, and there was no private common road model in this situation, and now here in the Folketing we are getting a little caught up in the sins of the past, because that is what we are more or less experiencing in relation to the discussion that we have today. I fully agree that both the rapporteur of the Left and the rapporteur of the SF, who has raised this question, have a certain preference for the East Railway, perhaps also because they are both elected in the area • I come all the way over from the dark Jutland, and I do not have any shares in that part of it • However, it does mean that we must of course acknowledge and acknowledge that in our view we have not got the right start on the transfer of these local railways and their well-being. We in the Danish People's Party have pointed this out on several occasions, and I have also said on repeated questions that we share the frustration that it is. We think it would be quite right to deliver them in a better way than we did, and to make the sins of the past less one might perhaps start by making an agreement where the whole bill for the handover of some semi-old rail sleepers is not just in the individual region, but that the state also assumes a certain share of the responsibility for this transfer. It could, for example, be done. We recognize that you got an average lower grid than other regions that have taken over local railways and so on, and we would actually like to make this right by making one into one-financing, where the state, if the region comes with 100 million. kr., then also comes with 100 million. kr. Or it could be another model, I'm kind of open to that. However, it could have been refreshing if the model had been taken into the economic negotiating room or had alternatively taken it into a financial law debate in connection with the creation. But unfortunately we have not got that, as it is now, and I would like to say there, in order not to bother anyone, that it could have been resolved before the creation of the present government, because it could actually have been resolved under a Left Government. It wasn't. If you look at the Sustainable Transport Council and their approach to it here, you can see that they have repeatedly struck at the fact that there has to be a greater subsidy for the private railways. There must be both here and now and in the future, and so it is clearly described in the report from Danske Regioner, the importance of the Localbans in rural areas and results, which are back from April 2016. One can also look at the analysis of the infrastructure of the private railways from 14 November 2017 prepared by Rambøll at the request of the Ministry of Transport, which clearly demonstrates the need for additional investments in the lanes if they are to be well functioning in the future, and these accumulations should not arise in connection with massive maintenance investments. That is why, of course, it is a little too bad for us in the Danish People's Party that the only thing we have come up with now, after all the many years that have passed since 2017, is that the government has been able to agree to sign the agreement in relation to the agreement on the region's economy from 2020, that the government is aware of the need. It was then back in September 2019 and, of course, I am glad that the government recognises that they are aware of the need, but that does not change the fact that we have to insist on finding a long-lasting agreement on this. We in the Danish People's Party would very much like it to be in the context of economic negotiations or, alternatively, in financial law negotiations, and if there is no room for that, of course we are also satisfied that it will end up being part of the negotiations in connection with the infrastructure negotiations. That's gotta be it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420192248	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420192322	Thank you for the floor. After all, the private courts are a little bit motherly treated. Unlike the other lanes, they are not located at Banedanmark, and they are not run by DSB, which means that there are no similar conditions for funding tracks across all lanes. And one of the consequences we see now, and that is that the East Railway is hanging and you do not know who is going to finance it. The roadmap has deteriorated, capacity has decreased, and this is all because of the maintenance standard. As a consequence of this, train commuters are being pushed into cars, of course, and they contribute to congestion, and local passengers are only at a disadvantage. Thank you for the fact that, with today's adoption, we are getting the light on investment needs and that we will get it done in time before we close the infrastructure negotiations. For I believe that we and the Radical Left believe that we must renovate the East Railway and the East Railway must be part of both local and commuting traffic. The same applies, of course, to the other local railways, and we must ensure fair conditions. We will work constructively with the government for this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420192429	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur, who is ready and who is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420192532	Thank you. The number of passengers on the local lanes has increased by 25% since 2007, so today there are 12 million passengers per year and more than 80%. the rails of the local lanes are approaching the last date of sale at the same time. According to the Danish Regions, 80% of the population is in the region. of the rails on which local trains run, i.e. between 25 and 41 years old rails. Railway tracks usually have a lifespan of 40-45 years, and the rails of the aging local railways clearly show that for too long the local lanes have been underfunded. It is now so glaring that 4 out of 14 local railways have such poor rails that it requires investment now or within a very short time if trains are not to drive slower with fewer departures and at greater risk of delay. Most acutely, the problem for the Eastern railway, which has been mentioned several times, is that it will close before that very long, unless money and a solution are found now. But Hornbækbanen, Gribskovbanen and Lemvigbanen are also seriously worn out and have high investment needs. The current state investment grants were established in 2001 and they followed over when the regions took over responsibility from the local lanes in 2007. They did so on the basis of the then Railway Inspectorate's assessment of the need for investment in the individual runways in the period 2000-2009. The basis for calculating the investment subsidy has therefore been exceeded by more than 10 years. As DF's rapporteur also mentioned, in 2017, Rambøll produced a report which described that up to 2026 there is an investment need of at least twice the current investment grant from the state, that is to say some 230 million. kr. annual. If the Danes, who take 12 million journeys annually with the local railways, do not have to stay on the platform or buy a car and fill up on the roads, there is a need for the investment grant to be significantly increased, and a new and far larger investment grant must all be based on the actual need for the individual lanes and not, as today, only on the principle of how many kilometres of local railway there is in a region. There is now a need for a solution for the East Railway; it takes Enhedslisten as a requirement for the infrastructure negotiations, but there is also a great need for an overall, stable and long-term solution for the financing costs of the local railways. It is essential for Enhedslisten to ensure a strong local track throughout Denmark in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420192822	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420192829	Thanks to Enhedslisten for the speech. I just need to ask you something, because this is not the first time that Enhedslisten has had the opportunity to, you might say, press the government to find funding. There have been financial negotiations, and I also know that I sincerely know that this is something that Enhedslisten has brought to the table, but why not? Is it not hard enough to put pressure on, or was it not a high enough priority among the things now being brought to the financial law negotiations? Or how am I supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420192853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420192854	Now I've only been in here for a few months, but it's true: The Enhedslisten has been fighting hard for the East railway and the local lanes for a long time, and unfortunately we just haven't managed to get through with it. But the challenge is that we must find a solution for the East Railway by June if the trains are not to stop driving. And we think that is quite obvious, even with the text of adoption that is to be taken into account in the infrastructure negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420192919	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420192920	But I very much agree that a solution must also be found for the Eastern railway, and that is also why we are trying to make a proposal for it. So I would just like to put a question to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, because it does not appear from the text adopted by Enhedslisten that there is any guarantee that this will happen. One will look at it, i.e. look at a model and a solution and something like that during the infrastructure negotiations, but it is not the case that x number of millions of people have just been added to the purpose. But if it does not succeed, will the Enhedslisten support a proposal such as the one we have put forward, which will tell the government that it will have to resolve it in the context of the economic negotiations with Danske Regions here before the summer break?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420192952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420192953	Well, as I understand it, there's a pretty big wish in the Folketing that we solve this problem. We are all invited to infrastructure negotiations, and if the Left wants to help push, I am quite sure that we will get the country a very good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193007	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. I can see that the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party is ready in the booth. If the speaker desk is too tall, it can actually run down, but it just can't run up again. Niels Flemming Hansen No, I think it's okay). Here you go, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193025	Thank you very much and thank you very much to the SF and the Left for asking this question. It is a question that makes sense. Now a lot has been said, so I shall try to be brief, but there is no doubt that the local lanes cover a large and increasing transport needs in the rural areas of Denmark. The regions have therefore since the takeover of the local lanes in 2007 also strengthened regional public transport: new trains, higher speeds, more frequent departures, shorter travel times, more comfort for passengers and now electric trains and hybrid trains. Add to that a better connection with public transport. It is so true that there are a few areas in Denmark where the rails are worn out. I believe that DF's rapporteur said something about him coming from the dark Jutland. Now I come from the bright and happy Jutland myself, which is why I also think that we need to find a solution to this. However, I am thinking that the government should have a little room for manoeuvre in the negotiations to be held with the regions in the summer of 2021. That is why we are putting forward a proposal for adoption. It reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the private railways are the responsibility of the regions and that the funding for this with the municipal reform in 2007 was set at part of the block grant for regional development and the municipalities' development contribution in addition to the investment grant for the private railways in the Finance Act. It is up to the regions to give priority to grants and to ensure the optimal operation of private railways. Therefore, the Danish Parliament calls on the government in the economic negotiations with Danske Regions this summer 2021 to find the necessary funding so that the regions can plan with the necessary rail replacement from 2022 and the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193229	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. I do not see that there are any brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, so I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and the text of the adoption. Since there are no rapporteurs present from either the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, can I give the floor to the Minister for Transport, is it correct to understand that it is the Minister for Transport who is taking the final round?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193303	That's right. The Minister for the Interior and I have agreed that I will take the final round unless specific issues arise in the final debate which concerns the area of the Minister for the Interior. First of all, I would like to say that, as I have said, private railways are important for the coherence of local communities, and they are also important for the government. And as was also read out in the proposal for adoption by a majority in the Folketing, the government will present a proposal for a possible priority for the rail network for the Eastern railway and other local railways in the context of the ongoing infrastructure negotiations. I am not going to prolong the debate any further, but of course, as it should be, I am making myself available to more than the one question that could be raised in the introduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193355	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193400	Thank you for a commendable short concluding speech... many excellent things have also been said in this debate. My question is whether the Minister of Transport can go into more detail about what kind of thoughts are being made. Well, what do you want to put forward? Is it a model, or is it new means? The government will choose to prioritise funds out of the overall framework, for example. Is there a part of this so-called negotiating reserve that has not been named? Is that where you want to find the means to solve this problem? Or how do you plan to solve it here and find the money somewhere else? Can the Minister of Transport elaborate on these considerations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193440	As can be seen, the government will present a proposal, but it is also clear that an agreement on infrastructure by its very nature is something that needs to be agreed at the negotiating table, and I will not go into it here. I think that the negotiations have got off to a good start, and I shall now look forward to doing so with the many parties who are at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193503	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193504	We very much appreciate that too, and we look forward to those negotiations. It is more because it is not clear from the proposal for the infrastructure plan that the government has been playing out on this issue not so long ago that this issue would be given priority. So the question is more whether the government has come up with any other ideas, or whether it is part of the considerations that have been made since the proposal for the infrastructure plan was put forward, that it is now saying that it would now like to look at finding funds for this purpose. Can the Minister try to elaborate on the movement that has taken place there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193533	As I have indicated, we are both prepared to look at the subsidy granted and the distribution of it, and we will also look at other elements. That is something we must look at together, and we will then come up with a proposal for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193550	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday, 22 April.
ParlaMint-DK_20210420193610	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 21 April 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00.
