ParlaMint-DK_20210521100002	The meeting is open. From a member of the Folketing of Sjúrður Skaale, who is on leave, I have received notification that from 24 May 2021 he will again meet in Tinget. Barbara Gaardykke Apol's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Today there are the following reviews: Morten Dahlin (V), Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), Marcus Knuth (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Inger Støjberg (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 298 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the stop for the departure centre Holmegaard on Langeland). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). With the consent of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the resolution be referred directly to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Members of the Folketing Mai Mercado (KF) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following proposals: proposals for a parliamentary resolution on the strengthening of the usefulness of child certificates in society. B 280). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521100124	The debate is open. The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521100139	Thank you for that, President. Today we are starting the day in the Parliamentary Chamber to deal with this motion for a resolution. It is a proposal to introduce free psychological assistance to victims of psychological, physical or sexual violence. It is a proposal that will require the government to submit, before the end of this parliamentary year, a bill that will, from 2022, provide free psychological assistance to victims of psychological, physical or sexual violence, and, according to the proposers, this will be done by the victims of violence of these types following this proposal. My understanding of the proposal is that in this way the proposers want to remove the self-payment for 1 of the 11 groups we have received, I come back to them in my review here and which is covered by this psychological assistance scheme. For one of them, you will remove the degree of self-payment that is there. The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that victims do not, for economic reasons alone, opt out of psychotherapy by private practitioners. I would like to start by saying that it is very difficult to disagree that the economy of the individual should not stand in the way of receiving the right support and treatment. The Government does not agree that it is appropriate to remove the own-payment for 1 of the 11 groups currently covered by the psychological assistance scheme, and this is partly due to the fact that, here in the Folketing, we are going to create a non-professionally justified discrimination in the grant scheme; there are other groups that will be placed at a relatively disadvantage than this group. This is also due to the fact that there are already a number of support and treatment services for victims of violence across the social, justice and health sectors. I would like to explain the reasons, but first of all I would like to outline briefly the subsidy scheme for psychotherapy that we have today, which is far from perfect. That is the arrangement that we want to change in this way, and there I think there are some fundamental and important issues that we need to address, including in today's debate. The subsidy scheme is often merely referred to as the psychological system. It is a health practice system, and it is the same in technology as treatment in, for example, the United Kingdom. Physiotherapists. The scheme is governed by a regulation under the Health Act and by the Agreement on Psychological Assistance. It is a scheme based on target groups and, as I said, it deals with the 11 different referral groups. The first nine groups include people who have been exposed to certain serious life events. Then there are 2 additional groups, and they differ by including people suffering from mild to moderate depression or anxiety, and for whom it has thus been based on diagnoses rather than incidents. That's the group number. One, we're talking about here. It covers the victims of robbery, violence or rape, and it is the group that is the subject of this motion for a resolution which seeks to eliminate the degree of self-payment that exists for that group. The other eight groups in the scheme, which have various other specific life events, include, among other things, and I am going through a few of them here, victims of road accidents and victims of other accidents, people who have attempted suicide, relatives of death or serious mental illness, victims of incest, etc. Together it becomes 9 groups plus the 2, and then we have 11 groups in total. In order to receive subsidies for psychotherapy, one should be referred to by one's general practitioner. The grant is 60%. of the psychologist's fee, which means that there are 40 per cent. (ii) the possibility of receiving grants of up to 12 consultations. In addition, the patient is required to develop a so-called mental pathological reaction with moderate impairment of function, i. e. that the patient's ability to function in the contexts in which he or she is part of everyday life is influenced by e.g. to have been subjected to violence or the other events I mentioned. In the psychological system there is also a time limit for reference to psychologist. One cannot be referred back if more than 12 months have passed since the incident to be dealt with has taken place. It is to ensure that the event is actually the cause of the psychological challenges. It is also a requirement that the treatment should be carried out by one of the private practitioners who has an outer number in the psychological system. The psychologists who deal with the scheme are authorized. They are not necessarily specialists in e.g. the treatment of victims of violence; they must be able to cover all the referral groups of the psychological system. It was quite generally about the psychological system, and now I will move on to the reasons why, as a government, we have very, very much sympathy for the intention of helping the groups in the best way possible, considering that we will not be able to agree to this resolution itself. And one of the arguments is that, as I said, there are eight other groups in the psychological system. This includes people who have also been exposed to serious life events, which we know can mean that you have mental problems. And I think it would be a slippery plan to start introducing discrimination into the scheme, because if we remove the self-payment from 40%. 1, we will then create an inequality which I believe the Folketing will have difficulty defending against the people who are in the other groups. And it is, of course, people who are relatives in connection with deaths, people with serious mental illness, victims of incest, victims of road accidents, people who have attempted suicide and others. These are the groups we are talking about. I think the Danish Parliament will find it difficult to answer why they should then have a certain self-payment when you take one group out of the 11. That is why the logical question is • and I might as well start here rather than wait for me to get it from the rapporteurs • why we then not just remove the self-payment from all psychotherapy in the practical sector. And I also believe that in the best of all worlds it would be a solution. At the same time, of course, we have to give priority to our funds, and if we were to remove the own-payment for all the first nine referral groups, it would amount to a cost of several hundred million kroner annually. I do not take a position on whether or not it will be a good investment. It will certainly help many, many people. But that funding will then also have to be found, and that happens when you sit and assess what needs to be invested in our society. Then I would like to point out that we have own-payment in several parts of the health service, and if we are to do so, it requires priority in the health sector or towards other areas, and that priority is therefore lacking here. It would, of course, be an argument for prioritising the removal of the self-payment of psychotherapy, that there were no other offers for the target group, but fortunately there are. There are other offers when talking about victims of psychological, physical or sexual violence. And that's why it's not for me to see the first place we're gonna get rid of the own payment. Across the social, legal and health fields, there are diverse offers of support and treatment for victims of psychological, physical or sexual violence. And I cannot read out all the offers, but it is important to emphasise that there are both specialized and targeted offers for example. persons exposed to violence in close relationships, or rape victims, and offers of a more general nature, such as: Vocational counselling and the above-mentioned health psychologist system. I think it is good that we have many different offers for people who have been victims of this type of physical, mental or sexual violence. They may have very different needs, and it is good that exactly that is reflected in a wide range of support and treatment offers. It should be borne in mind that psychotherapy in a practicing psychologist is not necessarily sufficiently specialised for all victims of violence, especially rape victims, and a more specialised offer may be needed. I understand the concern that some people who have been subjected to violence of one kind or another do not get the help they need because their purse is not for that. This applies equally to the other groups who are currently eligible for subsidies for psychotherapy. And when we know that there are other offers, including other free offers, I find it hard to say that this is precisely where we have to start. And that is absolutely crucial, I believe, that there are alternative offers which, for the individual, may even be more relevant than treatment by a private-sector psychologist. The authors also point out in their material that there is a social battle side when it comes to the subsequent consequences of having been the victim of violence. It is the case that people with fewer socio-economic resources are not only more victims of violence, but, as the proposers emphasise, there is also a greater risk that they will have repercussions, for example. mental illness. Of course, it is not just one's ability to pay that maintains such unequal conditions. Unfortunately, in the field of health, we see such inequalities. This is not only due to the self-payment, because as you are aware, a large part of our health care is free of charge for the individual. Systems are hard to find around in if you're not trained in it. And when there is a wide range of offers across the whole of three ministerial areas, we have to admit that although the offers can be good and many of them are that we know about in many parts of the health service, and we know about that too here. Those of our fellow citizens who are less resourceful will probably find everything else even harder to get the necessary overview of support and treatment offers, and that in itself may be the reason why you do not get the help that you stand and need. In other words, lack of knowledge of the aid and treatment offers that are actually available, both those that are a certain degree of self-payment in and those that are free of charge, can in itself be a barrier to receiving the right treatment. That is why we want to set in motion a systematic coverage of the support and treatment services for victims of psychological, physical and sexual violence. The aim is to create an overview of existing offers across sectors and their content, target audience, etc. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101259	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101303	I have asked the Minister how much it costs for the own-payment and the answer has been 7 million. kr. kr. In principle, it costs to help this group, so it's free. Then it is estimated that it will rise to 22 million. kr., and I think that is the best proof that there are some people holding back on the basis of economics. So does the Minister not think that it is a problem that those who are affected by perilous crime • one of the most serious things that can be imagined is in fact also those who cannot afford to pay for it? Because we know that from investigations. Is the Minister not concerned about this inequality, and would it not also be good for us to have equal women here, who can in principle receive this help at shelters, and then men who are also subjected to violence? This bias will actually correct this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101405	Yes. I can, and that is also what I tried to address in my speech, follow the thinking behind it and we must do what we can to help those people who are in such a difficult situation. It is true that the additional cost of removing the own-payment here is estimated to be 21-25 million in the long term. kr. If you then go further and say that it should not only be this group, but also those who have been exposed to something else I mentioned, incest, suicide attempts, serious road accidents. So these are very serious life events, you are completely blameless yourself, and who hit you and can really have serious consequences and give you a need for help, and who are part of this arrangement, should they be told by the Folketing: you cannot get it here, because we have taken out one group? I find that difficult to defend against them. And if you bring the whole group, we're up to between 205 and 392 million. kr. a year, and it must then be financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101511	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101513	I think it's strange to argue that we have to do it free of charge for everyone I'd like to. But now I propose to remove one group, and I certainly hope that the Minister has not regretted that we have, like ourselves, provided free psychological assistance for young people under 25 years of age. We took out a group there too, so of course we can do that here too, if we want to. Is there nothing crazy about the fact that as soon as it comes to crime, we are tightening up the penalties, filling up prison places, spending millions on it, but when it comes to the victims and helping them over the violation that has taken place, there are certainly no money trees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101548	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101549	The work that I would suggest we start is precisely a work in which we get identified and mapped out the wide range of offers that are actually available. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has mentioned some of that. We have women's crisis centres, we have help for the victims of rape, there are a number of things, and many of them are without any kind of self-payment. Then there is also the psychological system, where there is 40% own-payment compared to this group, like many others. I would like to help map this out so that we can also better advise the victims and the professionals who have that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101623	Then it's Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101626	Thank you, Minister. I would say that in the Greens we are also very disappointed that the Minister will not support the proposal. Try to think about if we had a society where you actually got help, if you needed it, without it depending on whether you had money for it or not. It's the kind of society that the Free Greens dream of. The Minister says in his statement, in his speech, that he recognizes that the area is far from perfect and that he will then identify the whole area and see how it can be improved. Could the Minister comment a little more specifically on what the Minister will do after such a survey? Are there plans to ensure that free psychological assistance is provided after they have mapped it out? Well, what's the purpose of a mapping? What exactly is it that you want with the mapping out in addition to good advice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101732	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101734	Well, as far as purpose is concerned, I've been sneaking up a number of things. There are also a number of organisations offering victims of violence, including: in close relationships. There is Lev Without Vold, there is Mother Help, there are Dan, there are Project Q-Work, Dialogue against Vold, the intervention model; there are a number who have some excellent offers and who are to a greater or lesser extent receiving public support. It is in itself, I think, an important point in this proposal that we address the inequality, that is to say that people who have a more difficult socio-economic starting point are also at greater risk of being subjected to violence, this type of violence, and, of course, we ourselves know from the health service that we know what offers apply to them. And that's one of the things we want to map out. What I have also replied to is what it will cost if you remove the own payment, as Mr. Sikandar Siddique proposes, and that is between 200 and 400 million. kr. annual. And I am not saying that it will not be a good investment, because it will probably be, but it will just cost some money and that money will have to be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101838	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101840	It is said that it will cost between 200 and 400 million. kr. to remove the self-payment, the user payment, for those groups. But then I just want to ask specifically: is there any realistic possibility that the government will actually weight mental health and well-being, care, that is, prioritise it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101912	I just want to make it clear that when I mentioned this amount, it is for the groups that have the life situation that I read out here. So it is not an amount for what it will generally cost to do it for free to go to the psychologist in Denmark. There we are on a completely different amount that I do not have with me here. However, the amount I mentioned is in relation to removing the own-payment in the system we are talking about here, and that would therefore have to be financed in that way. Of course, we are very, very happy to discuss this with the parties of the Folketing, because it is absolutely crucial that there is a good and easy offer to those people who have a very, very difficult life situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101948	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521101951	Well, sometimes you think it's matador money we play with in here. So I can understand the Minister, in relation to that it is a little bit: yes, it is just a grip here, and it is just a grip there. After all, I am in the Chamber all the time, because I am the rapporteur for everything, and there are many proposals in my pocket. So I understand that the government has to be a little bit adamant. So I fully understand that premise, and the parties must, like them, finance their citizens' proposals when they come with them. I guess it's the least you can ask for. But, having said that, will the Minister and the government recognise that, in the whole of the psychiatry area, we have a huge backlog and a very, very great challenge which, if we do not solve it, will also ultimately risk costing the community and which is already doing so today, both human and financial?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102051	Yes, I must definitely answer yes to that. There is a huge effort being made in our psychiatry, but on all the key parameters, which are of course about re-housing, which is about the conditions in the psychiatry, which are about coercion in the psychiatry, and which are about our inability to intervene with early prevention, we must note that, despite all sorts of good wills, lots of packages and other things have been made along the way in this Parliament we are not at all where we should be. We're not even where we're supposed to be. And this problem doesn't get any smaller in the future. In other words, we have supplied 600 million from the government, together with our contractual partners in connection with the Finance Act. kr. in a durable lift year by year, starting with an exploitation of beds, but later becoming a real operating boost. But it doesn't stop there. We need to make a generally stronger boost to psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102156	Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102157	Does the Minister think that this is a structural or merely an economic problem that we are facing? And if that is the case, no matter what the responsibility is, will the government come up with solutions to either one or the other or to both challenges?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102220	Yeah, I actually think it's both-and. After all, I myself have been sitting in the Chamber hearing a minister say that now we have put so much money into a budget law and then everything is good. And of course that is not true, and that is not what I am saying here. What is, after all, a specific problem is those who have double diagnosis, in other words who have both abuse and mental problems. It is a very, very large group which today typically commutes between typically a settlement or a municipal offer and admissions in psychiatry, i.e. under our regions. There we have to take action and say that there must be some who are responsible and much more on the terms of the individual citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102257	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. And after a little cleaning, we start with the rapporteur's line. First of all, it is Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102331	The motion for a resolution here, tabled by the SF, obliges the government to submit, by the end of this parliamentary year, a bill providing free psychological assistance in 2022 to victims of violence of a psychological, physical or sexual nature. In the Social Democratic Party we agree with the SF that it is important for victims of violence and other serious life events to get the help they need. It must be taken very seriously when people have been exposed to such things, and it may be crucial for the future of the victims if they are given the right help to move forward. Although the proposal is sympathetic and although we share the view that victims of violence must be helped in the best possible way, there are a number of reasons why we cannot support the proposal in its concrete form. Fortunately, in Denmark we have a well-functioning psychological system which, with nine different referral groups, depending on the type of serious life events that have been experienced, offers the opportunity to refer to psychotherapy. For example, there is a reference group for people who have been victims of robbery, violence or rape. There is one for people who have been victims of road accidents or other accidents. There's one for people who tried to kill themselves. And so on there are one for a total of nine different categories of serious life events. If you are referred by your general practitioner to psychology, you may receive a 60% subsidy as part of one of the referral groups. of the psychologist's fee of up to a total of 12 consultations. The proposal will therefore result in discrimination between the different referral groups, which cannot be justified. All serious life events must be taken seriously, and it is not appropriate to give priority to others. For the specific type of serious life events which the proposal deals with here, psychological, physical and sexual violence, there are a number of other offers, including women's centres and male centres, as well as a number of organisations that help people who have been subjected to violence in close relationships. In addition, in the area of the Ministry of Justice, there is the advisory services which provide advice and guidance to victims of violence, as well as specialist services for victims of violence in the regional centres of rape. Here are offered among others. also psychological assistance to victims of rape. Finally, here in the motion for a resolution which we are debating today, no funding has been given to the proposal. Although we share the intention to help the victims of violence of a psychological, physical or sexual nature in the best possible way, we cannot support the proposal for the above reasons. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102731	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102734	What I am responding to is that the rapporteur says that it is not appropriate to differentiate between groups. Is that not exactly what we have done in relation to young people in connection with anxiety, stress and depression? So, of course you can. It is, after all, a question of politics, that is to say what you are going to do. I think it is very worrying that we can see from studies that those who are most at risk of this type of crime, violence and rape are, in fact, also those who have the worst chance of paying the own money themselves. And the clearest example of some of them falling away from a need they have is, of course, that we expect the scheme to be used more. So we calculate today that there are people who cannot get help. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102826	It is true that we are together with, among others. SF has chosen to expand the psychological system. And, of course, this is a choice made with the good financial laws we have made together. I therefore agree that it would be open-minded and it would be a political choice to say that there is self-paying at some serious life events, while there is no one else in relation to these referral groups, in other words, in relation to being able to argue for it. This applies, as I mentioned, for example. the people who have attempted suicide, those who have been the victims of insanity carism, or have been in a road accident, those who are close relatives of people with serious mental illness, and other of these groups, among others. Those who have been subjected to incest. And then we're a little back on funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102934	Thank you. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521102936	Excuse me, but I'm a little confused. First of all, the rapporteur says: yes, we have made an agreement that takes out a group. Then the rapporteur says: No, we cannot make an agreement that takes out another group. What I think is so strange is that there are no narrow places when we have to open prison places and tighten penalties. There we argue that this is happening in the interests of the victims' sense of justice, but when the victims need the help needed to recover from the violations they have been subjected to, we cannot do anything. Isn't that a little weird?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103012	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103013	I would say this: I heard the rapporteur say to the Minister that there were no money trees here, and I really do feel that I do not think there are anywhere where there are money trees. So to come back to what is also annexed, namely funding, I would say that the funding in this proposal is not in place. So it requires a little more committee reading. I'd love to get into that and look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103049	Sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103051	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech here, and the latter made me think that there may be opportunities for this proposal to be implemented. Because I think we can all agree that if you have been subjected to violence or rape, no matter how old you are, it is something that really has great consequences for you and can ruin your life. That is why it is important that there are some people to talk to and that the psychological assistance that is needed comes right away. What all victims are telling us is that they need psychological assistance and help right after that has happened. That is where there is a hole, and that is where there is a problem. Then I think there is a little bit of water pouring out of the ears of both the Minister for Health, but also a little of the rapporteur here, so we could get some commitments here during the debate, that might be good, for example. a commitment that if the SF or anyone else comes with the funding that is a little complained that there is not here, are the Social Democrats and the government willing to implement this proposal, so that victims of violence and rape victims receive urgent help when they need it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103158	I think that this resolution raises an extremely important question: how can it be that there are people who do not seek psychotherapy when they need it? Is it the self-payment that's the reason? Waiting lists were also something I could assume was a cause. It may also be that you do not know about the support and treatment offers there are. So I would very much like to continue working on this and ask a few questions about it. What has already been asked is the economy, that is, what it will cost. These calculations are somewhat uncertain, says the committee's answer. I myself am on the board of the Center for Sexual Abuse, so I know that it is very important when people get the right help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103302	Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103304	I think it is a good thing that the rapporteur has a personal knowledge of what is a problem in relation to where the rapporteur is sitting. It is the same impression that we have in the Danish People's Party, and I also believe in the SF that not everyone knows where to look for help. And one of the barriers is that you don't get handheld as a victim. There is a great deal of care and other conditions when you get help as a perpetrator. But we leave the victims many times behind. That is why urgent aid is needed and there is a need for someone to hold their hands and not to pay for themselves, because then we have the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103341	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103344	Thank you. I am here, of course, a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, but also as the Social Democrat psychiatry rapporteur, and I am actually very pleased to hear the statements made here that one is concerned about the subject and that one also wants to go into this question and ask how it can be that people do not seek the psychological treatment when they need it. I also heard the Minister talking about starting work in terms of getting an overview. I hope that is one of the things we can continue to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103423	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and then it is Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103459	Thank you for the floor, President. The authors of this proposal want the government to be required, before the end of this parliamentary year, to introduce free psychological assistance to victims of psychological, physical or sexual violence. I think it is important to start by stating that we in the Left are in agreement with the authors of the motion for a resolution that violence should be carried out, and it does not matter whether it is people who are exposed to physical violence, psychological violence or sexual violence that should be helped to deal with the violence they have experienced. It may sometimes take extremely much courage, extremely much profit to seek out the help you need, and these are the people who have been brought into a situation where courage and profits may be what they have the least of. That is why I think that the intention behind the proposal is really good, and so we support it from the left, because we believe that violence, which is in this crisis, must be helped to work through their experiences so that they can create a solid foundation for moving on with their lives. That's why this is something we're open to looking at. But it is also the case that if you want to do something good, you also have to bring the money, and no funding is given in this proposal. But that is something we could look at in committee. I would like to say here on the platform of the Danish Parliament that one of the places we could perhaps try to create support to look at could be the Victims' Fund. We have a fund for victims who today do not spend the money to help the victims. There is money going to cinema ads, tablets, mobile phones, but it is not something that helps the victims of crime. So we would like to sign up for a good proposal with a very good intention, and then, during the committee procedure, let us look at whether we could not find any funding so that this proposal could also become a reality, because of course the money must be included, and there we could start by playing into the victim fund. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103716	There is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103719	Then we must at least change the purpose clause for the victim fund. The money can't be used for business, so this is kind of out of the question. Is there a problem with using the funding contained in the proposal, namely taking the money out of the room and otherwise leaning on the dynamic effects that will be of people getting help at an earlier stage? We know that when people get exposed to these things, they get sick days, some even get completely out of their jobs, others interrupt their education, that is, there would actually be quite a lot saved by also ensuring that people got help in time. So what is the problem of taking the money out of the room, as we actually propose, and leaning on dynamic effects?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103805	But I think it is perhaps necessary that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights should have a discussion on the Offer Fund, because we think that funds from a fund called the Offer Fund should go to help the victims of crime, and we do not think that is going to happen to a large extent today, so let us have that dialogue. In other words, to take the money out of the room is to say that no other funding has been found in this case, so we are not in favour of it. But let's see if we can't find the money somewhere else, because we think the intention is good. But it is also the case that if you want to do something good, you also have to get your hand to the back pocket and get your wallet up and find the money. It is a guiding principle for the Left, it is responsible economic policy, and we are, of course, firmly committed to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103842	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103845	This is of course interesting, because I do not think that the Left would find it difficult to spend money from the scope as funding for anything else, but leave it at that. I'm thinking that's kind of an argument for pushing it a little sideways here. But does the rapporteur of the Left agree with the government and the Social Democrat rapporteur that if you are going to help this group, you have to do it free of charge for everyone? Or can one actually say that there is a group that we actually think should have this help because we know that they have the hardest time paying for it when they are subjected to these abuses?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103923	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103925	Well, we do not have an ideological or, in principle, a problem in tackling where the challenges are greatest. We have no problem with that at all, and that is also why, although it became a debate on funding which is relevant and which I think we should take in committee, the overall message from here today is that we think it is a positive proposal. And let us see if we could not find a basis on which we could all agree. Then there is a chance that it will become a reality, even if the government does not think it is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521103952	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Peter Skaarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521104017	Thanks to the SF for making this proposal. I am convinced that it could have been put forward by the Danish People's Party itself. It is a proposal which is particularly directed at the victims who today find that there is a great deal of circle around the perpetrators who have been set in motion in order to get past the police, the prosecution, later a trial and then a prison sentence if it is a violent matter. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party have been following a lot because we have been very concerned about the victims and can see that the victims of crime are not being helped to the same extent. Perhaps the best example is from a few years ago, when Marlene Duus, the victim of violence from Frederiksberg, almost dies when she is malted by a boyfriend, thrown out from the third floor, her teeth fly all over the apartment. She can then simply not act as a citizen of this country, and her life has been shattered in just a few seconds. Her experiences and the experiences of many others have been that far too much attention has been paid to the perpetrators and too little attention to the victim. Something has been done since, and various things have been tried since. We have been involved in this in the Danish People's Party, and SF has tried, I know, from the other political side, and there is also something on the age side where it has helped, but there is still a long way to go. Then, frankly, I think it is a rather thin cup of tea when the Minister for Health and also the Socialist rapporteur say that there is a lack of funding and that all sorts of things are in the way and there is discrimination. Shouldn't you get in the game, Minister of Health? Should we not then get into the fight and ensure that the proposal that is on the table is implemented? If the problem for the government is that incestotter is not in the package, then make sure that the incestotters also come along, or people who have suicidal thoughts or the like. This can get better, minister and government. So full support for the SF proposal, and let us, together, the whole of the Folketing, for this is strictly not a political matter; it is a matter that everyone should be concerned about, i.e. that we follow each other in parallel, that the perpetrator is not treated better than the victims are treated, that the victims have had their lives thrown into gravel from one second to the next, that can't take care of a job, that can't take care of an education, can't be with friends, and that may be traumatized for the rest of their lives, come back to this course for the rest of their lives. Shouldn't we see to it that you get help as a victim immediately and quickly, and that's whether you're a little up in the years, and that's what the crime we're talking about is all about. As long as it is victims of violence mentioned by the SF in this proposal, there can be no doubt that society must provide the help that is needed, and we are not doing well enough today; it must be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521104324	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521104405	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the SF for focusing on free psychological assistance for victims of psychological, physical or sexual violence. I am quite sure that it is very important for all parties and members of the Folketing to help victims who are exposed to such perilous crimes. For this kind of perilous crime is not only something you notice in the actual situation, it is also something that can scar the soul. It can cause trauma, so that you do not dare to walk past a particular street lamp one night because you have memories of an attack at another time in the same place. It may be that you are more reluctant to go to parties, it may be that you are reluctant to do a number of things that you have done in the past because a previous crime has fallen so deep into you. Of course, you need help to process that. When you have been exposed to a dangerous crime, it can be difficult to understand everything you have to do, because the damage you experience is not only concrete in the course of the work you have committed, but can also cause long-term psychological damage, which may be alleviated, and if it can, of course, you have to do it through psychological help. We are positive about the basic intentions of this proposal, because we must of course help and prevent future suffering, but what makes the Radical Left not voting for the resolution anyway is that it requires some funding, because we must have some money set aside to make these efforts, and we therefore look forward to the SF then bringing it here into the financial law negotiations, because it must be a natural part of focusing on it by putting it forward as a motion for a resolution, and that is probably more where we are going to take the real discussions. Because it is a little difficult to have different expenditure-intensive resolutions here, because then there may be some other things that are very important for the Radical Left, namely climate and education, but all that has to be seen under one, and that is why we must call for it by the SF to be sent to the financial law negotiations. However, we very much welcome the proposal and there is no doubt that we must do much more for the victims who are subjected to psychological, physical or sexual violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521104644	There is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521104647	Thank you for the positive announcement • After all. This shows that there is at least hope for this proposal to some extent. I understand, then, that the radical rapporteur does not like the funding that the SF has pointed out here. But what does the radical rapporteur think about the proposal of the Left, that is to say, that the Offer Fund is being paid for free psychological assistance for victims? Because it was perhaps very reasonable for the money recovered for victims to actually go to something that the victims need.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521104717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521104719	Well, I certainly wouldn't want to be dismissive of that. It is just not in the resolution here. What we think we can't just do is say that there are some dynamic effects of this proposal and, in addition, we will take off the scope. Now I'm just saying it a little caricatured, but it's kind of a free round, you might say, to propose funding in that way. And there I think it is more real to turn the handle where you say that you take something from the victim fund or that you bring it into the financial law negotiations. That must be the way to lift it. I very much welcome the fact that we very much agree that it is important to do something more for the victims, because being subjected to a person-threatening crime such as physical violence, sexual violence or psychological violence is something that can cause trauma, and it makes sense that society is preventing those traumas, that is to say, that, even if we are harmed by the specific incident, we are taking care to prevent it from having an excessive impact on the victim in the future. There, as a society, we must take care of all victims, and that is why it must, of course, be taken into account in further deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521104825	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521104826	In other words, I have the impression that the parties are leaving the room for manoeuvre, just when it suits them, for exactly what they think is appropriate. So, of course, it is funding that can be politically agreed, if that is what you want. But then I want to know whether the Radical Left will be involved in a report along with the Left to provide free psychological assistance, in exchange for us to check whether the victim fund can then be that which covers these expenses.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521104857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521104858	I would very much like to take a closer look at this. But I can't know if it's going to go from something else that's important in the victim fund. That is why we need to look at it more closely. However, I think that this is a constructive proposal, and we will of course consider this, because we are basically in complete agreement on the work that needs to be improved and that we would like to do more for the victims, because there are probably some who opt out of psychology for economic reasons and thus do not get the prevention they might otherwise have benefited greatly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521104931	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mads Andersen, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521104951	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the SF for the proposal. It is an incredibly sympathetic proposal that is exciting. It is a proposal that focuses on an important area in terms of helping victims as well as possible. We in the Conservative People's Party recognise this. To be subjected to violent assaults, sexual assaults, serious threats, home robbery, negative social control, etc. must put every person's health under tremendous pressure. And, of course, as a society, we must do all we can to ease that pressure so that all victims get on with their lives as well and safely as possible. In the Conservative People's Party, we always want to be on the side of the victim. There are many different ways in which we as people work on grief, experiences and tragedies, and there must of course be room for that. Having said that, we also have a few questions or flags that we want to hoist. First of all, nothing is free. We must always bear that in mind when we sit in the back and discuss proposals and policies. Nothing's free. And since it is not free, I would say that the funding in the proposal here may be a little too loose for us. Dynamic effects and taking of the room are not expressed as necessarily appearing in the conservative dictionary. In addition, there might also be differentiation, at least in relation to some of the concepts, for example. in relation to physical and psychological violence. I guess there has to be a difference, for example. has been held hostage and has been subjected to violence for six hours, or if one has been put on the hat, as it is called where I come from, an evening in the city where it might even have been wanted. In any case, there must be room for discussion. Then it is also proposed that the government should put forward a bill during this parliamentary season, and I may be concerned that this will be possible as we are already under pressure from many cases and proposals, particularly in the legal field. Compared with some of the previous speakers who have spoken, among other things: Left, where the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Morten Dahlin, of course, pointed to the issue of the Victims' Fund, I would say that we would very much like to be involved in discussing this in committee. And we also fully acknowledge the intention and purpose of the proposal and really think it might be exciting to discuss these groups and what might be involved in this. So, no, thank you to the proposal as it stands here, but we want to discuss it further in committee and we can also take part in a report. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521105220	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521105222	If I remember correctly, the Conservative People's Party is one of the parties which very often propose punishments. How many of the punishments have the Conservative People's Party actually financed? Doesn't it just get taken off, for example? The scope or something when we realize them? In any case, funding rarely comes with it. The point is that we can take off the room if we want, and if we agree on it, and then we can use it on the victims. Victims cannot always use the punishments to recover from the actual incident. So would it not just be a very good idea to give the victims some real rights, something that helps them over the violation, namely free psychological assistance?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521105307	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521105309	Thank you. I am not going to stand here and explain all the proposals that have been made, but of course we are always fighting to punish more seriously in relation to particularly dangerous crimes, and that can of course be said to have some sort of legal sense for the victim. However, I fully agree with the rapporteur that that is not all of course, and that is why I think the proposal is good, given that there is a real need for us to look at it here. And I also think, as I said, that the proposal of the Left in relation to taking the Offer Fund into account is at least a place to start, and if we could land a majority there, if not else look at it in committee and possibly other forms of funding, then I think it would certainly be preferable to start with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521105354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521105355	That sounds good. Because then it actually sounds like we are close to landing a report, and I will certainly look forward to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521105407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521105412	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521105417	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521105432	Victims of violence, whether mental, physical or sexual, must be helped, whether they are men or women. They must be helped in exactly the same way, whether they are men or women. That is common sense. That is why we recently tabled a motion for a resolution in New Citizens to put men and women on an equal footing in Article 109 of the Services Act, and the Left, which otherwise always speaks very loudly about equality, would not do so. They would not be involved in gender-neutralising a clause in the Service Act that gives women better rights if they were subjected to violence than men. Last year, the government and its support parties decided that women should be entitled to 10 psychological hours if they were subjected to violence, but not a word about men. Now we are dealing with this proposal to extend tax-financed psychological assistance to victims of violence. Victims of violence must be helped, there is no doubt about that, and they will be, today, when there is both a subsidy for some groups and a fully funded aid for others, and I think that is a good thing as a starting point, but I will also follow the committee's proceedings with interest. But it would therefore suit the left to start by putting men and women exposed to violence on an equal footing. That must be an absolute minimum. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521105600	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the Christian Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jens Roh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521105619	Thank you. Violence has many faces, violence can be carried out in many ways and harm. I myself had a personal experience on 11 December 2018 in Strasbourg, where I stood prisoner and could not get into my family for many hours in connection with the attack by a citizen of Strasbourg, and the situation is well known. Several people were shot. The thing was, without it becoming such a suffering story, that afterward, when I got home, I completely collapsed. The film broke, and I needed emergency emergency help, and I thought I could get that by calling various public numbers. But I did not have private health insurance because things were different for Members of the European Parliament, and we are not covered in this House either. But I couldn't get help anywhere because I didn't have private insurance, either in one form or another, everything was rejected and it couldn't be done. I cannot help thinking about: what about the citizens I do not know how many it is that are not favoured by a PMI and that are exposed to something where things are going completely wrong? They can't get help, they can't get emergency relief, that's a huge problem, and I experienced it on my own. It didn't matter where I called, it couldn't be done. As I said before to the Minister, in the field of psychiatry and psychology, we have a huge backlog. Of course, when you sit as responsible minister, I also have the understanding that there are really many proposals in this Chamber which are just a grip on the pocket or use of the room for manoeuvre, and that a government cannot just sit around and say yes to it, regardless of whether you are sympathetic to the thoughts. Because there must be some funding from the parties when you make a proposal, or at least when you support a proposal, you must come up with the funding yourself. Now I am in the lucky position that, on behalf of the KD, I can support this proposal because we have funding in our 2030 plan. The Ministry of Finance's stabbing screws have been fully accounted for, and 14 billion have been set aside in our 2030 plan. kr. We have written in our plan that we want a very strong priority for psychiatry, because it simply cannot be the case that, if it is psychologically, it is harder and it is at least expensive. If you get hurt with your hand, as I did here 14 days ago, you can go down to the hospital and get the most amazing treatment for that X-ray twice, I'm called up for scanning my wrist to check that there's nothing inside that's broken, and you're sitting there thinking, what a luxury, and you can see that the weather was good, because people who have done gardening are pouring in, especially us middle-aged men, because every time we do something that we're not used to, we're going to get hurt, and you have to be careful about that, but when something goes wrong in your head, it's straight away harder, and it's expensive. We need to look at this and we need to look at it in both economic and structural terms. Because we believe that there are some structural challenges in the way in which the whole reform of municipal reform was carried out at the time, for which I myself bear a great deal of responsibility, but which is why I also have a knowledge that there are at least some things we should be looking at. So, in order to set this thing in motion and to send out the clear signal that there really is an important task for us here, KD will support the proposal and we have the economy behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521110131	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521110153	Thank you, President. Thank you for the floor. When my good colleague, sir... Jens Rohde comes up and tells us about this personal, traumatizing experience, it suddenly comes close to you; then the proposal suddenly turns into pictures, and then one realizes how important it is that as a society we have psychological help for people who are subject to trauma, for people who are exposed to psychological and physical traumatic experiences and injuries. I would say that it really was a speech that made an impression. It can be said that although my good colleague Mr. Jens Rohde was not covered by an insurance policy, I have some idea that his financial resources because of the salary and other things did, however, it was possible for the rapporteur to come to the aid of well-being, it was not. But try to think of those who have the very least in our society and what situation they must face. That is why, of course, I can say on behalf of the Green Group that we support the proposal. We would like to see more progress made; we would like to see more progress made as a society, but of course the money has to be linked. But how I wish it were about us people hanging together first. I miss it a little bit. I would just like to sign off and thank you for the proposal. And then I can't stop teasing 'cause politics is such a funny thing. It is not very long ago that the Free Greens put forward proposals on outpatient treatment for perpetrators and victims of violence, and who particularly supported the support parties' intention, but said that because there was no funding and because we wanted to take the money out of the room, it was not something that could be supported. But we support the proposal. If we are invited to the negotiations now we have to see if we get our electoral declarations by then I can assure the SF that this is a matter that we in the Free Greens are going to give priority to. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521110433	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521110456	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for a really fine debate, I think. We want to do the same thing somewhere, and I think I will try to look at the possibilities of making a report and see if the victim fund could perhaps help finance this area, because I think it is important that we get on with it. It is not so long ago that I met with SFU, who is SF's youth organisation, in my constituency, and as always a round of introductions to new members, and there I encountered a girl who had joined the SF. And I asked her why she'd done it. And she replied that she did, because we fought for free psychological help for young people. Because she was exactly in the situation that her mother was single and could not afford to cover the psychological bill. So she didn't leave, despite being raped. Then a little time went by, and then, in fact, we held a hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, in which we had a large number of organisations in which we had to clarify this area for us. There was the announcement very clear from the organisations: Psychologists must be free of charge, and you must be able to get to it quickly, because it is quite crucial when you are faced with such a trauma. That is why I began to delve into the problem, and there it was that I got onto the trail of VIVE's report, because they have identified the causes and consequences for those people who have been subjected to a violent crime of a psychological, physical or sexual nature. The report's conclusion is actually rather gloomy, because it is the people who have few socio-economic resources who are most at risk of being exposed to these types of violence. After all, it is particularly bad that it is children and adults from homes with few resources who are at risk of being subjected to a violent crime. For example: 16-19-year-old women in the lower part of the socio-economic distribution have a three times higher risk of sexual abuse than women in the same age group at the top of our society. In other words, you start to realize here that this is also about the size of your wallet, your social background. It is simply important for the possibility of seeking treatment with a psychologist or not. So it turns the heavy end down. Now I've talked a lot about women, but that includes men. This also applies to men who are subjected to violence. And that would really mean, if this were adopted here, the equality of men and women that we hope for if they are violent; because if you are violent, you obviously have to have access to psychological assistance. I think it is rather strange that we have almost just passed a consent law and put ourselves on the side of the victims; but we will not take the final step in helping the victims also to get help to recover from the abuse itself. We know that it is important that many of these events are dealt with once they have taken place. I also think it is paradoxical that I have mentioned that with a fingertips we can adopt punishments, fill prison places for millions, and nobody asks where the money comes from; but we can always afford that. However, when it comes to extending the rights of victims, I always find that this is a much heavier task. Then suddenly there are no money trees; nothing can be done. And I think that if the minister wanted to, he could find the maximum of 22 million. kr. A lot of money is spent on testing and on corona efforts right now, and I think it would be a grip in the pocket to find the money. At the same time, it is also well documented in the VIVE report that many of these victims of violent crime also have a greater risk of subsequently experiencing many negative life events, social problems, mental problems, low-linking with the labour market, alcohol abuse and drugs as a result of what they have experienced. I think that there must be a lot to be saved by putting in place here; one saves them getting through psychiatry, saves them abuse treatment, saves employment when they get out of their jobs, and one ensures that they retain that education, which we know is so important for a good life. Of course, we in the SF are concerned that it will be easier to have access to psychotherapy in general without any self-payment, so that we can have equal and free access to this type of healthcare as well. Actually, we're fighting for that. That is why every step taken in this direction is very important to us. I understand that the government does not want to support this proposal because it gives priority to one patient group and thus discriminates between referral groups. But we have already done so by saying that young people with stress, anxiety and depression are some that we give particular priority to; so, of course, we can also give priority to other groups. And I actually imagine that this is something that is already being done in different parts of the health system. I also know that, in the field of justice, we grant the right to aid lawyers to victims of violence and rape, but there are other types of crimes where you do not have an aid lawyer. And that's because we recognise that there's just one particular problem when you get hit by this one from the type of crime. It is the case today that if you want psychological assistance, there is an own payment of 40%, and it is just difficult for some to overcome, and I really think that the answer we have received from the Minister, in relation to how much this costs, shows very clearly that some people are holding back from using these schemes. We know that at least we will be able to do so, for example. It's about rape... that a lot of the victims are young. They are probably students, and everyone knows that a su is certainly not very much money if you also have to pay 40%. In return for a psychologist when you get hit by these things. The amount of the own payment today amounts to 7 million. kr. It is of course not very much in itself, but it is simply estimated that this amount will rise to 22 million. kr., if we do it for free. That certainly tells me that there are some who may be in danger of holding back because of their economy. Yeah, I think we've been around all the issues. There's probably a job ahead of us. In any case, in relation to the Danish People's Party, the Left and several others who have indicated that they would like to take part in looking into this question, I would like to see if there is something that we can agree on. I think it is important for the victims that we give them more rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111245	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. And the first one is from Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111249	Thank you very much, and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech and for a good debate on an important subject. What I mentioned in my speech was these ten psychology lessons for women who go to a shelter if they are affected by violence at home, and that is specifically targeted women, not targeted men. However, I already asked when it was adopted why we in this House should assess whether we need exactly a psychologist. Because I think that it has to be a medical assessment of what you need when you have been subjected to a trauma. It might also be possible to imagine that some people were going to psychiatric treatment. So I really want to put the same question to the rapporteur now: why should we in this House insist that it should be psychological help, instead of establishing that there are some groups that need some extended help when they are exposed to these traumas, and that it must be based on an individual, specific medical assessment, exactly what help they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111402	I think what convinced me is that we had a hearing in the Danish Parliament, which among other things. was about rape victims, and I know that New Citizens' Party President was also involved. There was a very clear message to us that there should be a rapid response, at least in relation to the groups that were subjected to rape. There was a very clear message that something needs to be done. I will then delve into the problem, and then I will actually find out that the people who are most frequently subjected to violence and rape are also the ones who have the worst opportunity to pay. That's why I think it makes sense here. But we can at least discuss whether there should be a medical evaluation. It should just not be too bureaucratic for the individual victim, because then I think we'll lose them in their trauma. It is already really, really difficult to approach the authorities. We know that. It's hard to report the assaults, to get it done. So I'm afraid we could lose some here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111508	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111511	Well, I very much agree that this has to be done quickly. It has to happen quickly. I just do not really think the rapporteur's answer to why we are so determined to adopt precise psychological treatment, because I think that a doctor will be able to assess what is needed. It could also be some psychiatric treatment, some medical treatment, if you have anxiety or anything else. So I think it's such a very broad palette. That was actually the one to which I do not think the rapporteur replied. The second is that I get a little curious because we have just been talking about section 109 of the Service Act, where you actually have a clause exclusively for women who are subjected to domestic violence... about the Socialist People's Party... then will vote in favour of the New Citizens' proposal to neutralise sex, thus guaranteeing the same rights for men and women in section 109 of the Service Act? That would be nice...
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111558	Whether psychiatric treatment should be given or whether to use the psychological assistance, I think that the individual victim must find out about himself, i.e. whether you think the trauma is so serious that you want to go to your doctor and get some psychiatric treatment. However, I think that psychological assistance should be a right, and I really believe that we can mitigate the fact that something develops into psychiatric problems by getting early help. In relation to the equality of men and women, I know that the SF, at least together with the Enhedslisten and perhaps some others, has put forward a proposal for a new paragraph in the Service Act, so that we can actually deal with the men who are experiencing trauma as well. Because they exist. I myself have visited the crisis center in Esbjerg recently, so I know that some of these men are really vulnerable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111648	Then it's Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111654	Thank you. And thank you for the dialogue today on this motion for a resolution tabled by three rapporteurs from the SF. The reason I just have one question is because the rapporteur mentions that it is a grip in the pocket. So this is the whole question of the lack of funding in the proposal. Or did the SF count on the funding? It is mentioned that there are savings to be made in psychiatry, and my question is actually very simple: How much savings in psychiatry does SF think can be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111743	That is precisely the part we have not counted on, but we have asked what the proposal costs, and we are also saying that we can take the money from the room. And then we believe that, in addition, there are, what can be said, effects that make people get early help, they do not fall out of their education, they do not become a burden in the employment system and in the psychiatry. And if I am not mistaken, the argument was exactly the same when we introduced free psychological assistance for young people under 25 years of age. It was also because we know that in the end it saves resources in psychiatry. But I haven't decided how much we can make up for it. We say that if we think this is a good idea, let us take the money from the room. And we are probably also reaping other gains in the labour market system, in the education system, in psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111837	Mrs. Julie Skovsby. She's gonna drop out. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111915	The debate is open and we will give the floor to the Minister for Employment first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521111923	Thank you for the floor. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution to introduce a principle of income for Danish social benefits. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this issue and thus raising the debate, an important debate, to safeguard the Danish welfare model. Because I fully agree that there must be profit principles so that you cannot just come to Denmark and receive the full benefit from day one. That is why we already have a number of profit principles for various services. The motion for a resolution refers to the Social Democratic aliens' initiative of the year 2018. The comments on the motion for a resolution emphasise that the proposers believe that the government has not delivered on the ambitions of profit principles. Reference is made in particular to: to, quote: • foreigners from virtually the first working day in Denmark can get children's checks for their children. I would like to start by explaining a potential misunderstanding among the authors of the motion for a resolution. Firstly, what we know as child and young people's benefits, in everyday terms the children's check, is already covered by an income principle. The Danish People's Party also has their share of the credit for this, and the government fully supports it. Secondly, when reference is made to the children's check, I assume that consideration is given to the temporary child allowance agreed by the government in autumn 2019. I would like to stress that temporary family allowances do not indicate that the government is not in favour of profit principles. The child allowance is a temporary measure pending the submission by the Commission of its recommendations and a new benefit system. It is basically about holding hands under the children while we improve a new cash assistance system with better balance. I would like to stress that it is absolutely central to the government that there must also be a principle of profit for new entrants in a new system. We are very aware that the amount of benefits can affect the influx to Denmark. Therefore, it is a bottom-up task for the Service Commission to make recommendations for a balanced profit principle. A balanced profit principle must ensure that the level of benefit does not become an independent attraction factor. In addition, it must encourage self-reliance while allowing the level of benefits to be able to live under reasonable conditions. It is a difficult task, but nevertheless an important task. I therefore look forward to hearing what the Commission is coming up with. Against this background, I would like to reject the criticisms of the authors of the motion. With the establishment of the Service Commission, the government has focused on maintaining profit principles. In addition, the government is working on a 37-hour commitment initiative. Our starting point is that newcomers and other foreigners with an integration need must participate actively in order to receive the full performance. It stresses that it is a fundamental principle of the government that one must contribute before one can benefit from the Danish welfare society. Regardless of how we reverse profit principles, we have to deal with them having to go hand in hand with EU rules. With regard to the free movement of workers, migrant EU and EEA workers must be made equal to Danish nationals when it comes to access to social security benefits in Denmark. We can't ignore that. But it does not change the government's point of departure that there should be profit principles where it can be done and where it makes sense. I shall now go into that in more detail. As far as pensions are concerned, we have long had profit principles, such as: means that the amount of the pension depends on the number of years of residence in the kingdom. The government has also ensured that the same principle of remuneration will apply from the outset to the right to early retirement. Moreover, an agreement that we were very happy to conclude with, among others. Danish People's Party. Children's and young people's benefits, or the children's check, are already tied up on a principle of income, as has already been said. Here is the right to the full benefit, among other things. subject to the condition that at least one of the persons who are dependent on the child has resided or worked here in the Kingdom for at least six years in the last 10 years. The right to full benefit is gradually acquired over the six-year period. The principle of profit is the same for all. This applies both to Danish citizens, foreign workers and refugees. Denmark has a unique su system that supports young people's ability to complete education regardless of their background, and we must safeguard that. Foreign nationals, including third-country nationals who train in Denmark, will not receive any support for the stay and will have to finance the studies themselves. However, it is possible to obtain su if the student has a special connection with Denmark. This applies, among other things, to: children born and raised in Denmark and the student who has been in Denmark for a continuous period of at least 5 years. EU and EEA citizens, on the other hand, can apply for equal treatment with Danish students if they have the status of migrant workers under EU law. It is not compatible with EU rules to introduce profit principles for EU citizens who make use of their right to free movement as workers. But I would like to stress that the government finds it very problematic if an excessive proportion of the Danish Su is used to finance the European students' training programmes. The government therefore maintains an active line in the EU in relation to restricting immigration to migrant workers. I also know that the Minister for Education and Research has asked that once again, with respect for EU membership, the possibilities of turning on some of the levers that can limit EU citizens' access to su have been looked at. In the area of housing aid, there are no principles of profit, but the question of this has been considered in the past. When there are no profit principles, this is mainly due to the need to ensure that pensioners and others with a limited income have a minimum subsistence and the possibility of maintaining a decent housing. If you were to introduce an independent income requirement in relation to housing subsidies, many would be subject to a double income requirement. This is due to the fact that a large proportion of beneficiaries are already subject to profit principles for their dependency. In addition, an income principle could lead to an increase in the number of other subsidies. In fact, some citizens will have so little money at their disposal that their dependency would have to be supplemented by individual benefits. In addition, it will also be expensive and administratively unsustainable to introduce, since the housing aid is calculated on the basis of the total household. This requires the building of a new system that can deal with cases where the household's residents have not earned the same right to housing support. I consider the likelihood that such a system will work in practice to be very small. Although the government is in favour of profit principles, I would like to point out that they should not be introduced blindly and without regard to the other consequences they are throwing away. That is why the government, as one of the first when it took office, abolished the residence requirement in the area of unemployment benefits, and I think that was still a very wise decision. The residence requirement was symbolic and it weakened both support for our benefit system and mobility in the labour market. The residence requirement made it harder to attract and retain foreign specialists, but worse still, Danish workers who wanted to return to Denmark after a number of years abroad were also affected. And it even appeared from the previous government's bill that the residence requirement would result in around 13,600 withdrawing from their cashier's account. In addition, there are already effective safeguards in the area of unemployment benefits which ensure that foreigners outside the EU cannot just come to Denmark and receive daily allowances immediately. This applies to the requirement for employment prior to unemployment, which ensures that, as a starting point, you have to have a link with the Danish labour market in order to be able to obtain unemployment benefit. That is why this government is not going to introduce a new residence requirement in the area of unemployment benefits either. We have also listened to the social partners who strongly advise against it. So let me pick up cards here at the end. The government strongly advocates that there should be profit principles for Danish social benefits. One must have had a real connection with Denmark and have contributed to the community before one can obtain the right to full benefits in our welfare system. With the establishment of the Service Commission, the Government has proposed a rethink of the overall cash assistance system, which will have an impact on the level and availability of all benefits provided in the cash benefits system. At the same time, it is a bottom-up task for the Commission to make recommendations for a balanced profit principle. I therefore do not agree with the claim that the government is not doing anything; on the contrary, we are in the process of uncovering the area. I am eagerly awaiting the recommendations of the Service Commission, which I will be discussing with all the parties of the Danish Parliament. In this context, we will also look at the possibility of ensuring balanced access to social benefits. Against this background, the government cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521112833	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521112836	Thank you. I do not know whether to thank you for your rejection, but it was expected. What we are proposing here is to oblige the Social Democratic Government once again to deliver what the Social Democratic Party has promised to its electorate, and this time it is therefore about page 17 of the programme: "Justiceful and realistic', where it is written, and it is the Social Democratic Party that speaks: "We have supported the introduction of a principle of remuneration for the children's cheque. And we will be constructively involved in political discussions on whether the use of profit principles should be extended. ▪ We would like to oblige the government to implement this by the end of the year, and I think that is actually a fairly spacious span, all the time that the government has been sitting 21⁄2 years and we are approaching a parliamentary election, etc. So what is it that makes it impossible for the Minister to accept that by the end of the year we should be discussing these principles of profit which the Social Democrats promised the electorate back in 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521112941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521112947	Well, the very short answer and that is what I have explained is that we are waiting for the Service Commission, which we have asked to rethink the benefit area, not least the cash assistance area, and also make recommendations on how to work with balanced profit principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113000	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113004	Should we then understand that the Minister does not expect the Commission to come forward with any proposals before the end of the year? That would be sad. Well, it certainly makes it easier to be a politician if you can promise a whole lot and then put it in a jar, and you didn't ever bar with anything, and then there's a new parliamentary election, and then you've done what you wanted. That's not how it works, Minister. So can we have a timetable for when the Minister expects these negotiations to begin? Apparently, nothing is expected by the end of the year, so when are we there? When are we going to stop sending one billion cheques after another out of the country because of su rules, child benefit rules, etc. etc. as we know it from the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113039	First of all, we are awaiting the report of the Service Commission, which will come before the summer recess, and I think that we need to be realistic, given that this is a very complex area which has also been made very, very complicated by the changing majority here in the Folketing and has many knob shots. We really believe that there is a need both to be sanctified, to be found some better balances and to be cleaned up in the system, and we look forward to having those discussions, both with one side and with the other side of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113114	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113119	I can be confused about what the principles of benefits need to be changed, so I would just like the Minister to state here before the Folketing that there is no discrimination against migrant workers. It is clear from Article 18 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union that we cannot do so, and indeed from the whole system of agreements as long ago as 1954, which is based on the fact that where you work you pay your tax and where you pay your tax you are treated in the same way as everyone else who pays their tax. Does the Minister agree with that principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113208	The principle that Mr. Jens Rohde describes and refers to are in the Treaties. However, it is no secret that in a number of areas, as regards Regulation 883, which is currently being negotiated in the European Union, there are discussions on the extent to which benefits can be taken into account and on the extent to which certain types of benefits can be received. There, like the previous government, this government is working on that, among other things. must be certain restrictions on daily allowances, children's checks, etc. But it is clear that until those rules have been changed in the direction that we want in Denmark, we must, of course, respect EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113251	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113254	But the children's cheque is part of the Danish tax system, and the Minister simply cannot regulate it against migrant workers unless discrimination is done. This is quite obvious, and we have been discussing this for years at European level. There's a reason why we've made all these moves to take your benefits and your earned right with you. This is to increase mobility in the labour market. Does the Minister agree with me that the great challenge in the future is to secure enough labour on the Danish labour market and mobility on the European labour market so that we can have enough hands to carry out all the services we want?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113342	I agree with you that this is what has been the purpose of the rules, and I also respect the fact that Mr. Jens Rohde may have a different political point of view from me and the government. But we basically believe that there is something unreasonable about the fact that, for example, the existing rules do not allow the indexing of children's cheques, depending on what the cost level is in the countries to which the benefit might be taken with them. That is, of course, what we have said in the negotiations on Regulation 883, that is what the previous government has said in the negotiations on Regulation 883, and that is also something we will continue to do in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113415	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. Then we can move on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113434	Thank you, President. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes to ensure a principle of income for the children's cheque and a general extension of the principle of income no end of 2021. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that there must of course be principles of income for newcomers, so that from day one in Denmark there can be no right to full social benefits. You have to earn it. Over time, many immigrants and refugees from the Middle East, Africa and other parts of the world have arrived. In the figures from Danmarks Statistik we can see that people in this part of the world are over-represented in the cash assistance system and under-represented in the labour market. This is untenable, and that is why we have a goal to introduce a duty to contribute 37 hours a week to immigrants on integration benefits and cash benefits. We went to the elections to set up a Service Commission to ensure a better balance in the benefit system. It was set up in December 2019 and since then the Commission has been working to formulate recommendations for, among others. a more balanced profit principle. Among other things: Because we want to await the outcome of the great work of the Service Commission, the Social Democratic Party does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113543	Thank you. And there are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113548	First of all, congratulations to the rapporteur on being able to extend the portfolio to cover proposals in the field of employment as well. So I'm deeply impressed with people who can juggle so many balls. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for bringing in his second rapporteurship, namely the Foreign Affairs Committee, because that is what this is all about, since we want to ensure that those who benefit from the Danish welfare system are also those who have a lasting connection with it. And it is not a great surprise that the Socialist rapporteur says the same thing as the Socialist Minister and thus distance himself from the Socialist electoral programme. One thing, then, is that a commission has been set up. It's fine. It's always good to get smarter. And it's gonna be so rough here at the beginning of the summer, I got it from the minister. But when is it expected to deliver? Because when the Social Democratic Party votes against this proposal, I have to assume that it means that it will not deliver by the end of the year. That is to say, we are two and a half years in the lifetime of the government. Is it gonna be on this side of a parliamentary election, or is it gonna be next? What does the rapporteur expect?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113701	First of all, thank you for all the kind compliments. The reason why I am standing here is also due to the fact that the matter now lies in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration, and since I am the rapporteur in the field of foreign affairs, it is of course relevant. And thank you again for the touching concern for our electoral programme, which the rapporteur is always kind enough to remind us of the qualities of. Thanks again for that. In order to answer the question a little more specifically, I would like to say that we went to the polls to set up a Commission on Awards. It's been working for over a year. It has been given a very complex task of trying to rethink the benefit system in a way so that newcomers to Denmark do not end up on passive support, but get out and get started, and then try to find the right balance between children not being harmed, but that people have an incentive to get to work. There we think it is the most proper thing, since a Commission has been working for a long time now, that we then await its report and then have discussions in the Folketing on how we can then set up the system differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113806	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113810	And that is quite reasonable, as I said in my first speech. What is merely the matter of fair and realistic is that there is nothing about when we can expect it to become reality. So the only thing we can trust is that it says that it is realistic. But then the question is: What is the temporal understanding of the concept of realistic? Is it only theoretically possible to do so, but unfortunately the Social Democrats presented a plan that could not win support? Or is it the realistic understanding of the concept, i.e. the one that most people share, that it becomes real that it becomes reality even before the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113850	Well, then, our goal is that it must be realistic and that it must be realized. It's not just a statement of intent. So, in the concept of realism in relation to this title, there is also something to be done about developing foreign policy in a broad sense, not least the asylum system, in a more realistic and sustainable way. And in this context, I do not think there is anything unrealistic about looking at whether there are places in the education system that need to be adjusted. That is why we have had a lot of people with an understanding of it to look at it in a commission, and therefore the most natural thing will be to wait for the Commission's recommendations and then see how the Folketing accepts them and how the individual parties assess the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113924	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521113928	I remember that Anders Fogh Rasmussen, as Prime Minister, always said: the Socialists think that they are bothering me by standing and asking all these questions, but they are completely wrong. It is a gift to me because it gives me an opportunity to talk about our policy. And you can almost take a look at the parade of proposals coming from Mr. The Social Democrats suspect that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in their spinning machines, because there is ample opportunity to talk about the policies of the Social Democrats, as is happening here. When we talk about these benefits, there is one regime for the migrant worker, and then there is another regime, such as the one for the migrant worker. is about refugees and immigrants. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that when it comes to people who just come here and do not work, that is. Taking up residence in the country, there is, after all, a court decision by the European Court of Justice from 2014 which was about a German-Romanian woman and where it was said that there is no right to any social benefits simply because you arrive in a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114038	First of all, we are still taking on new members of the Social Democratic Party, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is welcome. I think he could do well in the social democracy, and we already know each other from North Zealand, where we are both set up, so it should be a pleasure. But if the world is so good, we have to get back to it. It is, of course, the case that there are already profit principles in a number of areas in the area of social pensions, and in the case of various benefits that can be received as a migrant worker, and that is how it should be. There must be some principles for this. That's fair. I cannot imagine that there will be such a link between how to set up a new system for people who come as asylum seekers and people who come as a result of free movement within the European Union. But I'm not quite sure I understood the question correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114125	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114129	However, it is worrying if the rapporteur does not understand the question correctly. Because it's so important that we can figure out how to make a distinction in this discussion and that it's not all just gonna be one big light bulb. That is why I also addressed the Minister on the issue. We need to have a discussion that is going on in one room and that is about people who come here in one way or another and want to have social benefits or invoke the right to social benefits, and then there is another discussion about the migrant worker for whom there is a completely different set of rules. That is just the distinction I would very much like us to have in this debate, and it is a little difficult in 30 seconds, but that is just what I would ask the rapporteur to confirm, i.e. that there are two regimes here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114215	Well, that's right. Then I think I understand it a little better. Yes, it is true that these are two different situations. In other words, you take advantage of the freedom of movement as a migrant worker, get employment in a company in Denmark, become an employee here and are here according to EU rules, because you are an EU citizen, it is something else than coming here from, for example, a conflict in the Middle East as a refugee, get a temporary residence base as a refugee and then have to start some kind of activation or something else. It's something else than if you're employed as an employee somewhere. So it's two different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114247	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114310	Thank you. The left is in line with the Danish People's Party when it comes to spreading profit principles for benefits. We have made this clear in our foreigners' initiative •More immigrants and refugees must contribute to the community from the beginning of 2021, which indicates that we are ready to spread profit principles for services. The Left believes that we should not be able to come here and receive high social benefits until we have contributed to the Community. It's basically about fairness. That is why the Left has been involved in the introduction of profit principles such as: cash benefits and early retirement. In our foreign initiative we also write that we will start work in the Ministry of Employment, which among other things. look at the relationship with EU law, which needs to be examined. After all, the Social Democratic Party went to elections to spread profit principles on welfare benefits. The electoral vows have obviously run out, and therefore the Left would like to support the Danish People's Party's criticism of the government's priorities when it comes to introducing profit principles on Danish social benefits. The Left would like to enter into discussions on how we can work to achieve more profit areas in general, and therefore we look forward to the continued work of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114432	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114455	Thank you. For the record, I am neither an employment nor an alien rapporteur, but I am taking this motion for a resolution for my colleague, who is unable to be here today. The motion for a resolution, as I understand it, is aimed at reintroducing an income principle for the children's cheque and extending the income requirement to several areas. It is a little unclear how the proposers want the principle of profit to apply, since it refers primarily to a previous report by the Social Democratic Party, which is not entirely explicit either. In any case, the SF cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114530	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we can move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114655	Thank you for the floor. We are then tempted to say that I have come to another kind of teasing from the Danish People's Party, which is in the process of putting forward such a parade round of independent resolutions on some programme that the Social Democrats have and which they have not just had the opportunity to read themselves. You are then in the process of making a lot of these proposals, and we may well spend a little hour here on a Friday dinner; here on a beautiful Friday, after Brøndby won 1-0 over the AGF yesterday, you are almost willing to discuss anything here in the Parliament hall, no, joke aside. I look forward to seeing whether the Danish People's Party could also be inclined to raise a point from Radicale's election programme at some point. It could be fun and interesting to get a little variation in the debate. There is a larger round going on with these motions for resolutions. What I just want to make absolutely clear on the part of the Radical Left is that the free movement of migrant workers in the European Union is, for us, a core element of European cooperation. That is why we pay tribute to the principle that there should be no discrimination against migrant workers, and we pay tribute to the principle that working in another country naturally creates rights. As has been explained in the debate, there are already a number of principles of profit, and the Radical Left does not consider it appropriate to further undermine the principles and rights I mentioned earlier in relation to the absence of discrimination and to support the free movement of migrant workers as much as possible and, of course, to create rights. That is why we are voting against the resolution and I also welcome it from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114853	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on in a moment to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Mads Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521114921	Thank you for that, President. Today, I am speaking on behalf of our usual Foreign Affairs rapporteur, Marcus Knuth, and must try to be as good a substitute as possible. After all, the motion for a resolution we are discussing here is based on the opinion of the Social Democrats' Foreign Affairs Committee, which is fair and realistic: an alien policy that brings together Denmark; and some of the consequences that the proposers believe are associated with globalisation and our membership of the European Union; in this case, challenges in maintaining the Danish welfare model and at the same time having open borders. In other words, the motion for a resolution goes a long way in mentioning public services such as public pensions, dental care, housing allowances and social security. At the Conservative People's Party we are in favour of giving before you can enjoy, and as a starting point everyone must contribute to society and the community to the extent that each one is able to do so. It is only fair to take responsibility for one's own life, and it is absolutely essential for us to be able to maintain the Danish welfare model and thus ensure a social safety net. Our welfare system is not a matter of course, and there must be fairness in access to social benefits. That is why we embrace the idea in the motion for a resolution and the intention that, as a mover, we should contribute to Danish society in order to gain access to welfare benefits and privileges. We cannot support the resolution in its present form because the eyes are not kept on the ball, taking into account the many terms of the many welfare benefits. However, we are very happy to take part in the discussion, and especially when the Service Commission, hopefully in a few days' time, comes up with its report on how we can create a fairer approach to our social security system. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521115051	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521115056	Thank you for your comments. I am a little surprised that the Conservative People's Party cannot support this proposal, as we have discussed several parts of the programme presented by the Social Democratic Party in recent months, as other rapporteurs have also noted. After all, they are all about tightening up the foreign policy that has not been delivered. That is also what we are dealing with here, for the time it is about migrant workers. What exactly is it in what has been said in the motion for a resolution that would conflict with the policy of the Conservative People's Party? I fully agree that this should be done within the framework of EU cooperation and, among other things, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So what exactly should not be compatible with the Conservative People's Party's programme within that framework?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521115143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521115144	Thank you. First of all, I am deeply impressed that a party can work so ambitiously to achieve a political initiative, and what I am perhaps most impressed with in fact is that it is a party other than the one that came up with the initiative that is doing it, and that is impressive in itself. As far as this proposal is concerned, I think that the most important thing is that it is the whole palette. So, if I read the front page of the proposal, I really think it looks quite reasonable, but if you come down to the comments and all these many different welfare benefits are listed, it is that there is a small challenge for us. In fact, the important part of this is that when the Service Commission comes along with something good in a few days' time, you can take elements of it and discuss it instead of it being a big package.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521115225	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521115227	We are very, very concerned that the austerity in foreign policy promised to the Danes by the Social Democratic Party is being realized, and since the Social Democracy itself has not been able to put forward the proposals after almost two years with the government, we are, of course, very, very, very happy to assist as a constructive opposition party, and that is the reason for all these proposals. Are there any areas where the Conservative People's Party does not see the introduction of profit principles for Danish social benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521115251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521115253	I would also like to take a constructive part in the discussion about being a constructive opposition party, but there will be places in this where something makes more sense, at least, than anything else does. This is where we like to reserve the right to discuss the benefits a little more differentiated, and this certainly goes too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521115317	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we can move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521115336	In New Citizens we believe that integration is a personal responsibility and the right to public support must be linked to Danish citizenship. Instead of having the right to support, foreigners living and working in Denmark must take out compulsory insurance covering unemployment and pensions. We know that the figures show that non-Western women are a particular burden on our welfare system. They are over-represented in the statistics for women who have been on cash benefits for 10 years or more, since they account for 11%. of 15-64-year-old women per year 1 January 2021. The figures also show the difference between groups of women measured at the active rate in 1990 and 2018, and the greatest difference is between non-western women, where only half is in employment or in education, unlike women of Danish origin, where just over 80%. is in education or work. For generation 2018, each person of non-Western origin is expected to represent an average net cost of DKK 31,000. per Years of life. So the numbers speak so fairly much for themselves. We can also see that the figures show that in 2017 had 34 per cent. of all cash benefits recipients in Denmark non-Western background. The figures thus show that non-western immigrants and descendants are heavily over-represented among people on cash benefits. In 2017, non-Western immigrants and descendants amounted to just over 8 per cent. of the population, and according to forecasts, the cost of su to foreign students in 2023 will have exploded to as much as 650 million. kr. Compared to 2013, where the cost was 88 million. kr., the total cost to EU students in 10 years of age will have increased by staggeringly 639%. I could go on, and I could go on. There's a lot of numbers in this area. They speak their very clear language. In New Citizens we stand firm and we believe that foreigners must and must support themselves, quite simply. Of course, children's money should not be distributed to foreigners either. That is why it is quite reasonable to call at least for a principle of profit to be introduced. This is a step in the right direction, and that is why we support the resolution we are now debating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521115603	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance, and then we can move on to the KD's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521115617	When people come here to work, they're welfare tourists. When we send 84,000 Danes out via Danish companies to work abroad, we call ourselves expats. That's the way it is. And that's the whole problem in this discussion; it's our own self-conception that we are making a fantastic contribution to the world outside the country's borders, while everyone who comes here to work is someone who really just comes here to take part in social benefits. I think that if you ask Dansk Industri, Dansk Erhverv and the many companies • About half of Danish companies have employed from abroad • it is not a fair or a truthful picture that is being drawn. We urgently need foreign labour and we will need more labour in the future. That is why we should be glad that some international agreements have actually been made on labour, and it is quite important for me to stress that we are talking here about labour, that is to say the migrant worker. For many, many years, we have developed and refined a system which prevents discrimination, tax discrimination and migrant workers, because this is the prerequisite for increasing mobility in the European labour market. This is the prerequisite for obtaining foreign labour. After all, there are no people who will accept that everything they have earned over many years in their country of origin disappears completely from them if it is the case that they get employment in Denmark because they have to pay taxes in Denmark. The system is that where you work, you pay your taxes. It is a system that we should also be happy about in Denmark. We should be so happy about that. And then it is the case that in a large number of other agreements it goes back to 1954, as I said, and not only includes the EU countries, but actually also includes countries outside the EU; the EEA countries are also included in the system and regime of agreements we have said that there should be no discrimination. Up through the '80s, the '90s, and also in the '00s. Morten Messerschmidt also in the European Committee, where we also took many battles, and it is always a pleasure, there was a broad majority of Social Democrats, but also the Left and Conservatives now it was V and K who sat in the government at that time who were not just involved in taking action; no, we worked very actively to make initiatives to increase mobility on the European labour market. That is why we helped to develop systems all the way through, or rather to dismantle, everything that discriminates against the migrant worker. Against this background, it is a bit strange that suddenly, a few years ago, such a mood arose in particular with V and K, but also with the Social Democrats that now all those who came here were suddenly welfare tourists. It was so spoken of by the then President of the Left, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who created some unflattering pictures and metaphors about Romanian strawberry pickers and the like. This was all to the detriment of the debate that was intended to promote European mobility. Because European mobility is too low and it is going to bite us in the tail in the future because we cannot get enough labour and then we can put all the money we want into the public sector, but perhaps there are no hands to lift the task. That is why it is absolutely crucial for the KD that we stand by our legacy and debts, as I usually say, otherwise everything will end, and it is absolutely crucial that we continue to move towards abolishing what discriminates against the migrant worker in Europe, because we need the labour force.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521120137	Thank you. And no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it has become the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521120216	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you for your comments on this 14th proposal, I think, based on what several people have already pointed out, the excellent proposal from the Social Democratic Party for a fair and realistic policy on foreigners. After all, we are a part that is waiting in excitement not only for the Service Commission, but also in a broad sense for the implementation of the ideas and proposals presented by the Social Democratic Party back in 2018. And we have to be able to see that at least a great deal of it lags behind. That is why, as a constructive opposition party, we have allowed ourselves to make proposals here in the Folketing that the Folketing instructs the government to implement what was promised. I guess that's not too much to ask, and certainly not in an area where I have to give Mr. Jens Rohde has been quite a debate, that is, the whole question of being able to come to Denmark and claim to be a worker, according to EU rules, and as a result have access to various social benefits. This is something we have discussed at least all the time I have been a member of the Folketing, but certainly also in the past, and that is why it is something that is very high expectations. So when you write in your programme on page 37, that is something you want to work for, then it is something that has been linked quite high expectations of actually also became reality. That is why we are making a special point here, and not, for example, the policy of the Radicals, as Mr. Kristian Hegaard, when he was here, wanted us also to make proposals for the time that we, point. 1. does not agree with much of the radical policy and paragraph 1. I am very glad that the Radical Left does not sit in government. That is why it is not the policy of the Radical Left, but the policy of social democracy that we are particularly concerned about. This proposal is also specifically about introducing profit principles. Where are they to be introduced? The Conservative rapporteur felt that there could be benefits where it did not make sense, or rather: where it made more sense than elsewhere. That is a perfectly fair and fair approach to it, and it is therefore to be expected that we will look at it differently when we are called for negotiations at some point. There's nothing weird about that. What is the principle here, and what makes me regret the fact that the Conservative People's Party has now announced that it would press the red I think it would be quite reasonable if we could agree to oblige the government to implement just part of it by the end of the year. If you then say in the course of the negotiations that we are getting out of here because that is too much, or that is too little, then it is quite reasonable. What is important is that the many voters who have had expectations of this being delivered are not disappointed. And this is not the last but nevertheless one of the proposals we have put forward. It is not a teasing proposal, as some rapporteurs, I think it was Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, called it but seriously proposed that we, as a constructive opposition party, try to get the government to deliver. We're still waiting for that and we'll see how long we wait. We have to move on, President. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521120602	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521120637	The debate is open and we will give the floor to the Minister for Employment first.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521120643	Thank you for the floor, President. With the motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten proposes that there should be as soon as possible! Enhedslisten suggests that the highest daily allowance rate should be 23,000 DKK. monthly. The proposal is based on the fact that, as a result of the corona crisis, many people have lost their jobs and that it is difficult to get the ends to meet. The unit list also underlines that the level of wage compensation and other corona-related aid schemes is higher. Let me start by saying that, of course, I have a great deal of sympathy even for those Danes who have lost their jobs as a result of the coronapandemic. I fully understand that the last few years have been a particularly difficult and uncertain time for a great many people. That is why since March 2020 the government and the parliamentary parties have also done everything they could to help companies, employees and unemployed people through the crisis. I hope there is no doubt that it has been as important for the government to help those who have been outside the labour market over the past year, as has been the case with companies, employees and the self-employed. Firstly, we have paused the seniority counter on the daily allowance. With this measure, the total daily allowance will have been suspended for 12 months from March 2020 until the summer of this year. We can see that the suspension in 2020 and up to and including March this year has helped a total of 312,000 people. This testifies to the fact that there has been a great deal of help for unemployed persons. In addition, persons who exercise their right to benefit during the period of 1 November 2020 and until 1 November 2021 will be granted an extension of 2 months of their entitlement to benefit. I am convinced that these measures have helped to create great security for the benefit recipients who have not had to worry about using up their daily allowance for an uncertain period of time. But they have not just been an important priority for the government to hold hands under the benefit recipients while they are outside the labour market. It has also been at the heart of the government that we have helped them back in employment, either through jobs or education. You can do that, for example. with an industry change to sectors where labour is needed. That is why, together with a wide range of parliamentary parties, we have allocated a number of political agreements since the summer of 2020 a little more than 1.7 billion. kr. for upskilling targeted both the unemployed and the employees. We have among other things. (ii) to ensure that unskilled unemployed persons, at the rate of 110%, can become skilled workers in sectors with a shortage of labour. Furthermore, the measure has been extended by a new agreement and must therefore also apply throughout 2022. We have also added 100 million. kr. to the alert pool in 2021, and introduced a special alert pool for small businesses in crisis industries of DKK 30 million. in 2021. In addition, we have allocated funds to a wide range of pools for targeted qualification, especially in those industries that have been particularly hard hit by corona. And as you who have helped to conclude the agreements know, there are many more skills initiatives than those I mention here. By investing in upgrading, we are not only giving unemployed people a way back into employment. We also strengthen the long-term link between the individual and the labour market. I will also shortly call the parties for negotiations on possible measures to help the long-term unemployed. In fact, the negotiations have already begun. In other words, I think that we have done a great deal to help those who have lost their jobs as a result of the corona crisis and who have had difficulty finding a new job. Fortunately, we are now in the middle of the reopening of the Danish society, the vaccination programme is under way, and many of the professions that have had to keep closed to keep the infection down can open again. It seems that the pandemic is finally releasing its roof in Danish society. It can also be seen in employment, unemployment is declining, even significantly decreasing. In the daily figures we use in the Ministry of Employment to monitor how unemployment is going, we are today's date down on the fact that there are only 467 more unemployed than there were before Denmark closed down on 11 March 2020. In other words, we are moving rapidly towards a situation where there are fewer unemployed than there was before the corona crisis. The number of new job vacancies is also increasing and has now reached a record level, and I am delighted, and I am sure that many unemployed people will return to the labour market in the near future. The proposers point out that the level of compensation in the compensation schemes and in the temporary work-sharing scheme is higher than the general benefit rate. That is true, but it should be remembered here that the benefit system is different from the temporary compensation schemes implemented by the government. The compensation schemes must keep people in their current work so that they can start up in the same work again when the compensation ends. So they are not unemployed, but, through the compensation schemes, they maintain their normal jobs. Self-employed persons receiving compensation for e.g. losing revenue, continues in the same way to operate their business. In addition, the compensation is paid to the company while the employee receives his normal salary. Limited competition when putting the increase in the daily allowance rate on the new temporary work-sharing system is exceptional and should be seen in the light of the very special framework for work-sharing under the scheme. The system will make it much easier for companies to set up a division of labour, and we will balance that, among other things. In this context, it is important to ensure that workers receive increased income security, a higher rate of unemployment benefit in combination with pay, under the new system. In addition, the increase in the work-sharing scheme is mainly financed by employers through the G-days. In contrast to the compensation schemes, the unemployment benefit system for persons who are unemployed. This means that they must be available on the labour market and seek jobs. I would also say that we in Denmark do not have a tradition of changing unemployment benefits in the light of the economic situation: we do not lower them when there is a boom, nor do we raise them in the same way when there is a recession. Instead, we set our services as a starting point according to what we think is a reasonable level. Finally, I should like to sum up briefly: as a result of corona, the government, together with many of the parties of the Folketing, has already taken a number of extraordinary steps to support the benefit recipients in the best possible way in a difficult time. This applies both to the specific extensions of the daily allowance period and to the many retraining initiatives introduced in the last year. There are good opportunities to switch to a new industry or to qualify for a different type of job than the one you come from. In addition, we are currently in a situation where there are unusually many vacancies to apply for, among others. Those who unfortunately have lost their jobs as a result of covid-19. This suggests that the benefit recipients also face a time when there are good opportunities to find a new job. I would also like to repeat myself and say that in Denmark, of course, we do not change our services in the light of the economic situation, and I do not think we should change that now either. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121409	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121414	Thank you to the Minister for the speech on this. After all, we are approaching the time when the aid packages are being phased out, and I understand that the Minister does not intend to extend the aid packages relating to daily allowances and all that. Now the Minister mentioned something about 400 more unemployed than there were when the corona crisis started. I just want to tell you how many long-term unemployed we have today? How many are there on the division of labour today? The extraordinary division of labour also ends. But how many are there in those groups? After all, some of those who are unemployed have been granted an extension, which is why there may well be an extra number of longterm unemployed people there. But does the Minister have any current figures on how many longterm unemployed there are and how many there are on the distribution of labour at present??
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121505	Yeah, and this answer is gonna be clean on the basis of what I just remember. I don't have it in my paper in front of me. But I think that at the moment... ed 5.560 registered on the new improved temporary work distribution system. This means that in the statistics they are in the form of benefit recipients, but they have in fact still lost their normal jobs. They are only included in the statistics for benefit recipients because they receive supplementary unemployment benefit in addition to their salary for the time they do not work. In addition, in recent figures we do not monitor the figures for the long-term unemployed day to day, I think, and I say this with reservations, 31 000 long-term unemployed. That is also why we have agreed with each other that we must make a special effort aimed at the long-term unemployed and where we can see that in that group in particular it is unskilled, skilled and seniors who have been seriously squeezed in the course of the Corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121607	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121609	Thank you for the information on the figures also for the long-term unemployed. Then the Minister says that an agreement has now been reached that the parties should look at it. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to point out once again to the Minister that there are conciliation ties on some of the longterm unemployed in which the Danish People's Party is involved, but we are not invited to the negotiations. I would just like to draw your attention to that. That is why it prevents the minister from making the very big upheaval in those areas outside the Danish People's Party. It just cannot be done if there is conciliation in this area and conciliation bindings there. The Minister just needs to be aware of this in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121652	Sir. Bent Bøgsted knows that as a minister and the government, I am always happy to have the Danish People's Party at the negotiating table. I also know that there is some confusion, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted has also pointed out to me, and as we also take on our shoulders in the government, that it was originally agreed in an agreement of which the Danish People's Party was not part. Now it has again been pointed out that there must be negotiations on longterm unemployment in an agreement to which the Danish People's Party is party. We will, of course, clarify this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121727	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121729	I am not entirely surprised by the Minister's position on the proposal. I would say, however, that the Minister is aware that Enhedslisten has both pushed on and participated in virtually all the packages we have talked about, but that is not what this is about. It is true that the packages have prevented people from getting fired very well. It is also true that arrangements have been made to ensure that you do not fall out of the benefit system very well. But the problem is the living conditions of those who have become de facto unemployed and have had to live on that benefit rate, not for one month, not for two months, but perhaps up to 15 months. And when you know how much the unemployment benefit rate has deteriorated over the years in relative terms, you must also be aware of how much it costs on the family's finances. I should like to ask whether the Minister is aware that this is the problem, so that the rate itself is so low that it creates major economic problems in families.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121831	I fully recognise that issue. I mean, I have members of my own family who have either lost their jobs during the corona crisis or who are on the division of labour. I do not think that the solution is to make a corona allowance for unemployment benefit in a situation where people, moreover, and fortunately for it, are storming back on the labour market, where we can see that the number of vacancies is historically high. I heard that the Director of Jobindex has been out to say that it is the highest they have ever recorded. So I do not believe that the solution to the problem described by Mrs Jette Gottlieb is to make a corona allowance for daily allowance. I also know that we have to deal with another resolution. By the way, I also know Enhedslisten's view of the daily allowance. FH's come up with a play. We take all the input into the further consideration of what is to happen. However, I do not believe that the solution is the outline resolution that we are debating here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121927	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521121928	It is the case that the Minister mentions that we do not have a tradition of allowing the economy to determine the daily allowance rate, and I agree in principle with that. That is also why this is not the way it is formulated, but that it has just been formulated as an addition in relation to some very special situations that have been functioning since March 2020. That is why we are putting forward the proposal, and that is why I ask the Minister whether it could not be a solution here and now compared with everything else that has been made of here and now solutions, for which there is no tradition in Denmark either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122006	I accept that premise, but would not Mrs Jette Gottlieb also answer whether she does not agree with it, and it may well be the parliamentary calendar that has decided that the background to the discussion and the proposal made by Mrs Jette Gottlieb is significantly different today than it was perhaps six months ago or a whole year ago? In other words, we have a situation in which we can see that unemployment is falling, even very significantly, and where we can see that there is a record high number of vacancies, all because we have pursued a different policy of crisis than the one chosen to lead on top of the financial crisis or in connection with other crises.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122049	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122052	Thank you. I would like to commend the government for sticking to the fact that when we look at the labour market out there, there is something that suggests that we may not actually look into high unemployment, but that, on the contrary, there may be some lack of work in some areas if it is going to buzz. There are indications that we can actually run into that. So I would like to thank the government for sticking to that. Could the Minister comment on what the potential impact on the labour market could be if we put this up to the DKK 23,000, i.e. if we actually adopted what Enhedslisten and SF support?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122128	In other words, it could be said that, first of all, it would cost a great deal of money... a considerable amount of billions... which I think we can also explain in more detail in some answers to Parliament during the committee procedure. In addition, there are various discussions on how this will take place. I believe that, on the basis of the general economic assumptions which the Ministry of Finance is working on, it will be assumed that people will have less incentive to look for work. I also think, on the other hand, that we need to be involved in that debate, and that is one of the things that the Commission on second generation reforms is looking at: there must also be a balance. People must, on the one hand, have a decent remuneration when, for a short, temporary period, they are outside the labour market and, on the other hand, they have helped to insure themselves against unemployment. I think the Enhedslisten is right to highlight this. And we have also had to deal with a situation in which many of those who, in this crisis, have become unemployed, are, after all, people who have had a permanent and permanent link with the labour market for a very, very long time. So I think that both considerations should be part of the discussion in a fair way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122242	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122243	I totally agree. And if you look out into the world and compare with the Danish benefit system, it is also a system that gives people a quite high performance compared to looking around other countries. I would like to ask something about some of the decisions we have taken here recently to extend the expiry of the benefit entitlement. If we look into bankruptcy increases in the autumn, and if we look into a labour market that simply cannot get the labour they want, will the government be willing to start looking at some of the things that we are going to face with such a bottleneck problem and say: Hey, maybe they need to phase out, maybe we need to change some things there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122322	Now I don't know exactly what kind of arrangements these are, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen refers to, but it can be said that the suspensions of the seniority counter in the benefit system expire on 30 June. Well, then there's no stopping on the daily allowance counter anymore. This also applies to a large number of aid packages and compensation schemes. The group of experts set up by the government has proposed that they should be phased out from 30 June. There are still discussions on wage compensation. But the government's starting point is very clear: it must also end from 30 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122404	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we can move on to the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122426	Thank you. Our employment rapporteur, who is normally Henrik Møller, has no opportunity to be here today, and that is why I have been allowed to take the first of three motions for resolutions, and I am actually very pleased about that, because this is an area which I too have worked with as a member of the Committee on Employment and which means a great deal to many of us who have been elected to the Folketing, and that really means a lot to the Danes in terms of their opportunities and security in the labour market. The Danish daily allowance scheme is the world's best business support scheme. It's not getting any better. Imagine that we have a system where companies dare hire and guys in flexicurity in a flexible cooperation between employers and employees, which means that with the benefit system we keep our hands on those who for a while fall outside the labour market. It is, of course, a collective insurance scheme, if not seen. After all, it is one of the pillars of the Danish labour market that makes Danish companies competitive. I think that is important to remember. It is clear that the unemployment benefit system works in such a way that during rise times the book is filled in, and in times of decline there is a larger feature. That is why this debate on the short-term benefit system, which is a little implicit in the proposal, is also part of it. There I am glad and proud to be part of a party and that we have a government which, in times of crisis, actually invests in people with qualifications and who have implemented pay compensation packages and other things that are about keeping people in work. After all, the government has approached this crisis radically differently from what we saw in 2008 after the financial crisis, and has, in fact, also learnt lessons from the issues we had then. I'm proud and happy about that. As regards the motion for a resolution here, we want to negotiate a corona supplement and raise the daily allowance rate to the highest daily allowance rate of DKK 23 000. a month. There is also a great deal of sympathy for this. Although many economists, politicians and others have said that with the direction that the government is taking, we are lucky to see that things are going quite well. We've got that famous v in relation to a dive in the economy. And thanks to the aid packages made in broad cooperation in the Folketing and with the social partners, we have actually managed to find ourselves in a situation where a great deal of the economy is roaring away, which means what is most important for those who are unemployed, namely that there is actually a chance that you can get a job relatively quickly again. Then there are some people, especially those who are long-term unemployed and others who are, after all, paying a very high price, because the crisis we have been through and, unfortunately, many people along the way have also paid a high price. The Minister for Employment has already explained some of the things we have put in place, so I do not think there is any reason to repeat that here. This applies both to keeping people in work, but this also applies, of course, to those who are on unemployment benefits. The unemployment benefit counter has been put on hold, focused on upgrading, which is of course essential, when people, when they are in the unemployment queue, actually spend time acquiring skills that enable them, when things go back on as they are doing now, to slip back into the labour market. I'm really glad. We have made compensation arrangements, as I said, which have kept our hands on employment all the way, and that is why there is no contradiction between compensation schemes and employees. Social democracy cannot support the proposal as it stands here, for the reasons I have explained here myself and because of what the Minister for Employment said, but in conclusion I would like to say that we are well aware that the people who have lost work are in a difficult situation. That is why it is good that we are now moving towards brighter times and that there is so much progress in the economy that the way to find a job has become considerably shorter than what might have been feared. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122849	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122853	Allow me to put a slightly philosophical question to the rapporteur. Because there is no doubt that the lower the daily allowance, the less they meet the conditions which I think the rapporteur describes very precisely in relation to the value of our benefit system. But how far are we going down? Is half of your pay income a good cover? Or is that enough coverage? Or when will we fall below the limit where the benefit system no longer meets its intentions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521122930	Yes, it was a philosophical issue which was also actually very concrete in relation to one's own private economy and also the major macroeconomic discussion. But that's a good question. It's a classic discussion. And you have to say that if you look over time, the inequality in incomes increases. This means that for those earning more and more, the gap between what you can get on a daily allowance rate and your real wages will of course increase. It just doesn't change the fact that it's still a really, really good insurance policy, also for those who make a lot of money. For those at the lower end of the income scale, it will be smaller. And then we have had a classic discussion about the relationship between the benefit rate and wage income, etc. I still believe that this is an excellent insurance scheme. But it is clear that, as things develop, there are some distortions of that system. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123026	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123028	But then I would like to ask whether the Socialist rapporteur is aware that there are very broad indications in the trade union movement that there is a desire to improve the system because it no longer works satisfactorily in relation to the flexibility shown, for example. is participating in its collective bargaining and such a thing; that there is a very broad comment in the trade union movement that the benefit system is becoming too poor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123057	Yes, I'm certainly aware of that, and I've had the pleasure of being employed in what is now called the FH-- back then it was called the LO--and follow this area very closely. So I'm well aware of it. I myself participate and find it exciting to participate in a discussion about how we organise our labour market, including the benefit system, which is one of the pillars. So, as always, I find it exciting to enter into those discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123123	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123138	Thank you. One of the authors' arguments for the motion for a resolution is that the benefit recipients are in a precarious financial situation qua corona closure. The Left recognizes that premise, and that is why we have also helped to compensate the benefit recipients, among others. to derogate from job search requirements and to ensure temporary extensions of the benefit period. However, the Left is critical of the argument that benefit recipients are particularly vulnerable and to the extent that it requires a special temporary corona supplement. We also disagree with what is stated in the motion for a resolution on the equivalence of benefit recipients with self-employed persons and employees. If you have not fallen in salary because you have become unemployed since 11 March 2020, the income base we are talking about here has been stable for benefit recipients throughout the Corona crisis. That is why it may well be thought that, in isolation, benefit recipients may have been less at risk than the self-employed, whose livelihoods have been threatened with their existence. Perhaps they have also already closed down their business. We in the Left do not believe that now that society has been reopened, which, moreover, reduces the incentive to find employment at a time when there is a record number of vacancies, where unemployment is happily and happily falling and where we see an increase in employment, is the time for a corona supplement for benefit recipients. That is why we in the Left cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123355	Thank you. Someone just made a brief comment here, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123400	Once again, I would like to take a slightly philosophical view of the approach and ask whether it is the view of the Left in relation to the people who have been fired that it is their own fault?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123412	No, certainly not; that is not how it should be perceived. But when we talk about a revenue base, and then you are on unemployment benefit and you have been on unemployment benefit perhaps even one year now, unfortunately, it is at least a stable income, and that is a good thing. We have also been in a situation where we have suspended the consumption of daily allowances for a period of time. It ends now, but we have done so. That is also what the Left voted in favour of. However, it is not just to compare with the self-employed who have shut down their business and, although we have made various compensation packages, it has by no means covered the costs incurred by the individual self-employed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123507	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123509	I understand that it is not the fault of the unemployed that they have been fired, and I am glad to hear that, because that means that we can say that we can call it analytically what happens when, for example, we are dealing with the problem. in normal situations would have been given work perhaps after 1 month or 2 months or 3 months or something, and now actually is at a benefit rate of 15 months, according to how it affects the economy of the persons concerned. It's a stable income until we finish the packages, but until then it's a stable income, but at half the level you usually have when you get your salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123558	Yes, and there is the answer: we must now set everything we can in motion to help the unemployed get back to work. After all, we are currently discussing how we can help particularly the long-term unemployed and especially the long-term unemployed seniors. But it is basically about opening up our society. I think that is the absolute greatest help we can give to benefit recipients at present, in other words to open up our society, to relaunch growth. We in the Left believe this to be the main road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123632	Then there are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521123650	Thank you for that, President. Now a very long time has passed with corona, and we are fully aware that it is not over yet. We have had a great many aid packages with an extension of the daily allowance and with the suspension of consumption of the benefit period, sickness benefit, there has been a special situation for those in risk group for corona, we are far off with vaccinations, and job efforts in the municipalities have been shut down, but now it is on the way up to full strength again. The aid packages with the suspension of daily allowance are due to expire here on 30 June, which means that then we are back to more normal conditions, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party think it is commendable that this proposal is coming, and I also understand very well that Enhedslisten is bringing it, but it is a little wrong when we phase out the aid packages that a corona supplement will then be proposed. It will then be a call for negotiations, and we know that, if negotiations are to be convened, it will not be on this side of the summer holiday, and perhaps we will be up and running again when we get on the other side of the summer break. I do not know if Mrs Jette Gottlieb is confident that the government could get something in place before the summer break. I don't, if it is. But we understand very well the intentions, and we also understand very well the 23,000. Later, we will be dealing with a motion for a resolution by the Enhedslisten on the level of cover for daily allowances, which we agree with far along the way. But to use this to negotiate that corona supplement, where we're just phasing out all the aid packages, we might think we're a little wrong. We also heard the Minister say that there were just over 500 more unemployed than at the time of the corona crisis. What needs to be invested here is the efforts of the job centres and the job actors, so that they get more in employment, and there are many listings, and there are job vacancies coming almost every day right now, so that goes the right way in spite of the corona crisis. Despite what is happening in the world community around us, it is actually running quite well in Denmark. The best solution, of course, is to get into a job rather than to be on a daily allowance. I would actually say that if Enhedslisten had meant something about this, they might have made the proposal last year, but they do not, because now it will come just before all the aid packages are shut down, and that is why it may be misplaced in this regard. But I understand it well, and I also believe that Enhedslisten will continue with the 23,000 when the government once pulls itself together to look at a debate on how the coverage of unemployment benefits should be, as we are also ready to look at in the Danish People's Party. However, as I said, it is not a motion for a resolution to withdraw outright, but rather a motion for a resolution which is about getting the government to call for negotiations. If the government wants to negotiate on this, they could do so without a resolution, but leave it alone. However, as it is based on the fact that the aid packages expire and that we are moving more towards normal conditions, I think it is wrong to start looking at creating a new aid package for a short period of time. I suspect that Mrs Jette Gottlieb believes that this corona supplement should run forever, but I hope that corona will not continue forever, I hope that it will soon be over, so that we can get back to more normal conditions, and then we should concentrate our energies on looking at where the coverage rate should be on the daily allowance instead. The Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124111	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124114	I appreciate the rapporteur's support for the discussion on the level of coverage, because this is an important factor in this, and the important factor is that you have been exceptionally much longer unemployed if you are unemployed. I am very pleased with all those who come to work, and I am very glad if it is true that there are only 500 more unemployed than there were in the previous period, but it is not they who come to work who need such a solution. But it is precisely those who are not going to work, and there are still some of them, and that is why we have tabled the proposal. And I think the minister was a little right that it also has something to do with the parliamentary agenda, that we are going to be discussing this at the same time as we are shutting down the packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124158	That is probably true, and I do not have any insight into how long the various unemployed have gone unemployed, and who has come to work quickly in the last few months, whether some of them have been newly unemployed here during the corona, or some of them have gone longer. That is also why I asked how many longterm unemployed really were. However, the allowance was the same before the corona crisis, and then it should be said that Mrs Jette Gottlieb should also have driven forward two or three years ago with the fact that the benefit should have been raised and made a proposal there. But that doesn't change this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124240	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124242	I have to say, I actually did, but leave it alone. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he is aware that there is a very, very large group of people who are just employed with the corona-related, in relation to the detection of infection, tests, vaccines, all those things, and whether, if we say that we are going to be in normal conditions, there is no question that there will be 1,000, 2000 and 3000 people who will be fired immediately in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124312	I have no prerequisites for judging that, because I do not know how long this test system will go on, and I know that around them they are talking about the lack of temporary workers, including home care, which they find difficult to get because people would rather test. I think it was today that I read that they lacked temps because the young people would rather do tests than be temps in home care. So there are plenty of job openings, and I also hear about companies that hire people all the time, and that it may also be difficult to get people. So there's a lot to take off, but you're gonna have to see if it's a job change you're gonna have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124352	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124411	Thank you for the floor and I am here to read a speech on behalf of Karsten Hønge, who has no opportunity to be here today. The motion for a resolution provides for the government to call for negotiations on a Corona allowance for daily allowances, so that the maximum daily allowance is DKK 23,000. the month and thus is at the same level as the aid to the self-employed. We think that in SF is a good idea. SF has long struggled to increase the coverage of unemployment benefits, not only in the Corona, but also in general. On May 1, this year, we played out with a proposal to lift the daily allowance by up to DKK 4,000. per the first 3 months, if you have been in employment for 2 out of the last 3 years and a member of an unemployment fund for 4 years, and up to 2,000 DKK if you have been a member of an unemployment fund for 2 years. So, overall, we are positive about the Enhedslisten's proposal and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124514	There are no brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124531	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for the motion for a resolution here. The motion for a resolution will, of course, in practice involve some sort of conjunctural allowance, and I do not have any religious opposition to that. On the contrary, we have been involved in extending the Corona benefit period for several rounds, and this is, in fact, also a cyclical benefit period, albeit not a single rate. So we believe on the part of the Radical Left that we have done and that we continue to do a great deal for those people who, unfortunately, are suffering from unemployment in relation to corona, and, fortunately, also with a focus on upgrading and training, on the one hand, and on the other hand, with the current negotiations on long-term unemployment, on the other. The Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124628	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Mads Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124645	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this proposal. The Coronapandemic has been hard on many: young people, old people, education, cultural life, business, sports, nightlife and, I think, just life. It has been inevitable that it also had an impact on our labour market and that a lot of people lost their jobs. I think we can be proud of the way in which we have dealt with it in the area of employment. I think we have had a very good hold on aid packages and rescues for both our business community and our unemployed. If we are to avoid this proposal having to deal with the general discussion about the daily allowance, I think we will come to that later, then let us focus on the positive development that we are in the back of the corona. On the second day, 3F reported in their professional journal on the lowest unemployment rate since March 2020, when the pandemic really broke through, and every time we meet with the minister in the chair here, he usually also has figures with which to give some kind of optimism in the field of employment. That must also mean that this proposal is becoming more and more superfluous the longer we get back in gear. Whether you want to discuss the daily allowance rate in general, it is harder and harder to do so in a corona perspective. Perhaps I could also admit that this proposal was tabled at the beginning of March and that we have, fortunately, had a very good development in the field of employment for the last 21⁄2 months. We have many other important themes in progress that we are discussing at the moment and how we will move forward well after corona, and then in the Conservative People's Party we think that we should focus the gunpowder on it. We cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124826	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521124851	This proposal by the Enhedslisten is a very bad proposal and we cannot support it. It pulls people out of employment and it will potentially raise minimum wages, which will make it harder for low-paid people to enter the labour market and perhaps even push them out. In addition, we are faced with a situation where we are perhaps looking into a shortage of labour rather than some who are going to be unemployed for longer. So there is no need for it at this time, and it would be a completely wrong way to go down. If there is something that the business community out there needs, if there is something that the people who may have become unemployed because of the corona need, then it is that parties like Enhedslisten wake up and demand the government to remove some of the rigid restrictions that exist out there that are completely unnecessary and that are not based on health care. The National Health Service itself says that the whole corona Pass alone is a political decision. The bourgeois parties have put forward proposals to lift some of these rigid restrictions on conferences and markets and all sorts of other things that could create jobs out there. There are currently restaurants that can't get a job because the young people choose to work on these tests. If you wanted to do something there, you could really move and raise some of these restrictions so that they opened up again. If you wanted to do other things in the long run, you could help reduce taxes and charges so that there would be more in people's pockets when they became unemployed. But as long as you have a policy that insists that we have to have the world's highest tax burden, and they even want to raise it on the Enhedslisten side, it will, of course, undermine the money that people have in their pockets, and then you will cause problems here, and it will be the bourgeois way to look at those things instead. So we cannot in any way support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125047	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125051	I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the initial remarks should be interpreted in such a way that the rapporteur believes that we should abolish the benefit system altogether.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125101	No, I would have told you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125103	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125105	But that is like the consequence of the fact that if there is evidence of a shortage of labour, at least lower or eliminate the benefit rate. Otherwise, there is no logic in the introduction that was in the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125118	There is a lot of logic in it, because as long as people have a good big gain by choosing a job instead of being on a passive support, they will choose it. However, if you raise the daily allowance rate to DKK 23,000-24,000, there will be 125,000 people in the private labour market who could benefit more from a passive transfer income. Then it is a problem; then it is a structural problem and you have to deal with it. That's why it's a stupid idea. I'd rather lower taxes and charges than raise the daily allowance rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125151	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125153	Knock, knock! But knock, knock, maybe it's pretty relevant, because it's like Mr. Knock. Lars Boje Mathiesen says about taxes, I wonder. Is the policy of the New Citizens' Party to reduce taxes and charges for those who are not in the labour market? It does not create employment. Is that the bottom treasure? Normally it is a bourgeois policy to reduce taxes through top taxes, labour market contributions etc., or to create increased employment, but is the policy of the New Citizen that it is the bottom tax that should be reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125258	We would like to reduce taxes on high incomes, middle incomes and low incomes, and also on people outside the labour market. One of the things we have in our economic plan is a sharp reduction in taxes. We know that these taxes on, for example: electricity, water and heat and gasoline are something where the social arrow points down. We believe that there are some low-income groups in society that also need to have more money in their pockets. So, yes, we would certainly like to reduce taxes and charges for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125332	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead. He's gonna drop out. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. I don't see anyone from the Liberal Alliance, and then we'll move on to Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125356	There is, in fact, a very well-known knock that relates to my name, and I was afraid that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, who is a musician, would start singing it. So I guess it's a good thing we stopped that. In fact, in the KD, we think that it is both sympathetic and a sensible proposal that comes from the Enhedslisten. However, I have, and we have, a principle that states that either the proposers finance the proposal they make in their proposals, if we are to say yes, or the funding must be found in our own 2030 plan. Because if I stand up here and say yes to something that we have not funded or that is not financed by any other means, then our economic plan falls apart, and we cannot have that. For us, it is crucial that there is credibility in our economic policy, and that is why we have to reject the proposal from the Enhedslisten. But it is not because it is stupid, and I do not believe that it is something that will in any way hamper employment; I find it difficult to argue for that in the situation we are in. So that is an excellent proposal. There is just a lack of funding, which is why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125527	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125546	Thank you. As has been shown, Enhedslisten has proposed that we decide to make a corona supplement for those employees who have been unemployed during the corona period with everything it has offered of sudden layoffs and difficulties in finding new jobs. There is no doubt that the government has acted resolutely with proposals for aid packages. Hands have been held under both companies and their employees with compensation for lost income and subsidies for wage compensation. That's really good, too. And I would just like to add that Enhedslisten has been a strong factor in this happening. We have stalled the daily allowance counter so that at least people haven't gotten out of the benefit system, and that's good too. But where aid is not enough in this unusual situation, it is for those who have actually been out of work for an unusually long time. The daily allowance is no longer sufficient to cover the ordinary expenses of a family. The longer the period of unemployment, the greater the problem. In 2020, Danish cashiers have made a major study of how unemployment affects the unemployed. In connection with the economic part of the report, some results have come to light which must be puzzled. For families with children, a period of unemployment has meant 69 per cent. has had to save on food and groceries, while 53 per cent. have responded yes to the fact that they have had to save on their children's social activities, leisure activities, for example, and 30%. have had to save on children's personal care such as medicine, clipping or glasses. 81% has had to save on its own social activities, birthdays, cinema tours or sports and such. At the same time, 52 percent have. of all respondents asked for financial or material help from families and friends, and 24 per cent. I've had to put myself in debt. These are heavy figures and they show that the discussion on poverty and child poverty also includes the coverage of the cost of living of a family. This is not new knowledge for the government, because in all aid packages and agreements, including the agreement on division of labour, the government has operated with an amount of DKK 23,000. per month to cover lost earnings. I can only see that as a confession case. The government knows very well that the allowance does not cover enough. Enhedslisten has proposed a corona supplement so that the daily allowance will reach DKK 23,000. a month. Of course, this is not our ambition in terms of the solution to the unemployment benefit problem... they go much further... but it is a proposal for a solution here and now to a really big problem for a large number of employees, for whom the Corona crisis has gone through as a great deprivation for a long period of time. We are very flexible and willing to negotiate both in terms of financing and entry into force, which is why we are asking the government first of all to call for negotiations on this and now solution. Compared to the longer-term solutions, we've asked questions about the government's assessment of the cost of making the supplement permanent, and the answer I got was thanked for it. But the most important thing about this is that we are fully aware of the conditions that families have in their day-to-day lives, which is why we have put this proposal here and now. The longer-term problems will be dealt with at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125921	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521125925	It was just because I got to think of the long and fine list that Enhedslisten's rapporteur made of people who had had to cut things down because of the fact that they had smoked on the daily allowance... if there was any time, it dawned on Enhedslisten that if there had been a generally lower tax burden, people would have been able to set something aside so that they didn't actually have to do these things? But because of the high tax pressure that we have in Denmark, people always live on the border, so that they cannot afford to set anything aside. And then when they come on cash benefits, they don't have anything they can make a living on, and then they have to make those cuts. Has there been any thought that there could be something in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130010	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130015	Now this is not a discussion on tax pressure nor a discussion on proposals to change the tax system. However, the amount of available money available to people on the basis of the amount of their daily allowance is, of course, dependent on what is paid in tax. Of course. But what is paid in tax is being used for all the things that we see as the ordinary welfare benefits in society, and therefore they are a vital and necessary condition for the functioning of the whole system. So no, these two things aren't going to stand up to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130047	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130051	I mean, the idea that we're only spending money on basic core welfare is crazy. I'm from a municipality that's spent barely half a million dollars. kr. on celebrating a building's birthday. A great deal of money is spent in the public sector on things that make no sense. That's the point of this. When one mentions that there are some who must limit their children's social associations when they have to borrow, and when they have to save on food and all sorts of other things, it is because they do not have a buffer. Then it is because it may not have been possible for them to save up in all the years that Enhedslisten's rapporteur said people have been in work. That's where the problem lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130129	I do not consider the coherence to be built up in this way, but we can take the ideological discussion if the proposer makes a proposal on tax policy. Then we'll have the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130139	I would like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur and the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130203	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130211	Thank you for the floor. Our benefit system is a key element in the Danish flexicurity model. This helps to provide safety for workers and flexibility for employers. For this reason, the benefit system is, with good reason, in constant search, and so it should be. We have just discussed a motion for a resolution on a corona allowance for daily allowances, and both the government, the parties of the Folketing and the social partners have a constant focus on the fact that the benefit system also needs to be strong and solid in the future. The motion for a resolution that we are going to deal with now obliges the government to table a legislative proposal during the current parliamentary year which will end the erosion of the value of the daily allowance. The Enhedslisten proposes to compensate for the reduction of the daily allowance of 0.75%. in the years 2021 to 2025. If the resolution is adopted, the government is required to call for negotiations on the financing of the proposal. I would like to start by emphasising that both the government and I are very concerned that we have an unemployment benefit system that is financially secure and has broad public support. If an employee loses his or her job, the benefit system provides security until he or she returns to work. At the same time, companies benefit greatly from our flexible labour market. This allows them to adapt quickly to new situations and new markets. That is why I fully agree that it is important that we continue to support a good benefit system. I am also sure that the Danish flexicurity model has been valuable through the Corona crisis and is now instrumental in getting us out of the crisis well. We can, among other things. see that the number of posts opened up is increasing steadily with the reopening of society. This may suggest that flexibility in the labour market contributes to employers' having the courage to hire more quickly when they see a full order book again. It also rubs off on, for example. sub-contractors who get more to do. For me, the corona crisis has highlighted how much strength it is for Denmark that we have a strong benefit system. Therefore, it is also an important priority for the government that the flexicurity model is strong and solid now and in the future. A strong benefit system is essential in this context. It should make sense to be a member of an A-box. In this context, of course, we cannot avoid the level of compensation. It doesn't matter what compensation you get if you get unemployed. As you know, in relation to the development of the level of compensation, it is complicated to agree on one particular way of settling matters. There are several ways of determining the level of compensation, and that is also why we often see different figures in the debate. If the methodology of the benefit commission is used, the trend in gross compensation rates for ordinary employees has been relatively stable over a long period of time. However, as the proposers themselves also mention in the motion for a resolution, the 2012 tax agreement means that the daily allowance will be regulated less than the wage trend up to 2023. This means that the amount of benefit is therefore not adjusted at the same rate as the salary in the years to come. I am very aware of this and the government is closely monitoring the development of the level of compensation. As I have also said before, therefore, I am certainly not opposed to the fact that the government will at some point look at the daily allowance rate. Almost exactly a year ago, in May 2020, we dealt with another motion for a resolution which also dealt with the erosion of the daily allowance rate. At that time, we were at the beginning of what turned out to be a long-term pandemic, and the government was very concerned about managing the crisis and holding hands under Danish economy and Danish jobs. Over the last 14 months, we have carried out a large number of aid packages, for example. pay compensation, temporary work-sharing scheme and a number of compensation schemes for enterprises and self-employed persons. I do not want to repeat myself, but, as you know, we have also introduced a wide range of measures in the area of unemployment benefit and retraining which can help to keep our hands on those who are outside the labour market and get them as far as possible through the crisis. The focus has been on the least possible remaining and remaining unemployed and the maximum possible return to their work. Now we are going against brighter times. Society opens up, and the vaccines make their intake. But we are still not quite out on the other side, and among other things. Therefore, I must also be honest and say that the government will not be calling for negotiations right now on the amount of the allowance. There are other tasks that need to be solved first. However, as I have already said on several occasions, this certainly does not preclude us from looking at the level of compensation at a later stage. This also means that I am always responsive when it comes to good suggestions on how we can strengthen the Danish flexicurity model. This is certainly a debate in which as many people as possible should be involved. As I have also mentioned on previous occasions, I would also like suggestions on how we can find the money for it. Because, as you know, and as the authors of the motion also mention in the motion for a resolution, there will of course be costs associated with a higher level of compensation. It will cost about 1.1 billion. kr. To abolish minor regulation once it has been fully phased in annually. That is a lot of money, and that is why I believe that a proposal to abolish minor regulation should be followed by specific funding proposals. Let me finish by picking up all the cards. I hope it is quite clear that the government is concerned to strengthen the Danish model and also to ensure that the benefit system is attractive and secure in the future. I am also sure that the Danish flexicurity model has helped us better through the crisis. It is important and we must safeguard it. That is why I do not reject the fact that at some point we have to look at the level of compensation and the government is following developments closely. But right now there are other things on the drawing board. We must get out of the corona crisis, fully and in the best possible way, we must ensure the green transition, and we must ensure that growth and new jobs are created, to name but a few of the government's priorities. The time has not come for negotiations on the level of compensation right now, as the motion for a resolution proposes. That is why the government cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130812	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment on Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130816	I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to make an argument as to why it is a good idea to reduce the amount of benefit. It was decided in 2012, but prior to that there was the whole movement pool discussion, so it has existed for a long time. Why is it a good idea to reduce the amount of cash benefits? Is it only a question of getting some money for tax relief, or is there some logic behind the fact that you want to reduce the amount of benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130844	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130848	I am convinced that you can find economists who can well argue that it is appropriate to lessregulate the value of the daily allowance. It is not my view that it is, but I am referring to the reality created by the 2012 tax reform, which used it to provide funding to make tax cuts, including tax cuts for a large number of people with ordinary, average wage-earners' incomes. I myself said, both before the elections, after the elections and in my speech today, that we also think that there is a problem worth looking at here. Nor are we opposed to that being looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130935	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521130938	I assume that the Minister is aware that the price level in the intervening period has increased considerably, which means that it is not just a nominally smaller rate of unemployment benefit. It also means that less of its cost of living can be covered by it. And especially in the housing sector, I assume that the Minister is aware that there have been dramatic increases in many places. It has an impact on the living conditions of the person concerned. Wasn't that a good argument for starting a stop to this minor regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131011	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131015	I certainly think that there is a good argument, and that is why we in the government and myself, as ministers, are not opposed to it. However, I also have to say that it is a discussion I have often had with Mrs Jette Gottlieb, but also with other rapporteurs on the Enhedslisten that it would sometimes make discussions easier if we started by pointing out some funding initiatives. Yesterday, a motion for a resolution was tabled on changing the classification of salaries in the public sector, a proposal which alone would cost more than 5 billion. kr. This is going to cost 1.1 billion. kr. I share all the views in this respect, but we do have the role of being responsible for providing funding, and that is not easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131102	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Jeppe Bruus, rapporteur for the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131132	Thank you. The proposal put forward by Enhedslisten on the erosion of the value of the daily allowance is, of course, sympathetic and should be seen in the context that I also mentioned in the motion for a resolution before us, namely that the Danish benefit system is the world's best business support system. Countries look at Denmark with great envy, and rightly so, because we have a flexible labour market where employers dare to hire because they know that they can also fire. This is of enormous benefit, not least for employees who actually have the chance to enter the labour market, in contrast to what is seen in many other places. If you look at southern Europe and elsewhere, it is much more difficult for young people to enter the labour market because you have a situation where, if an employee first becomes employed, it is more difficult for the employer to let him go again. We also have systems around the world where a large part of the costs associated with having employees or employees are on the shoulders of employers, unlike at home, where we jointly increase the costs, and that is something that is unique about the Danish labour market model: that we ensure that we have companies that are extremely competitive, and ensure that we have employees who actually have a chance to get in, and that we jointly take care that if you are available, it is not only the one's own problem, but that it is a collective task to ensure that you are well-qualified and that if you get sick, it is not something that you have to make sure of yourself, but that we actually have a collective task in ensuring that you get well again. That model's awesome. It has proved to be strong, even in times of crisis. We have seen here most recently in the corona crisis how we have together been able to lift the Danish labour market wisely and well through the crisis, precisely because of the labour market model we have. Of course, this model is based on a fundamental principle that if you become unemployed, there is an insurance scheme that you can join, namely the benefit system, and it is clear that the insurance scheme must be attractive. And that is it, both for those who have lower incomes, but also for those who have high incomes, because it is actually a relatively small insurance premium that you pay for an insurance policy which is quite crucial to your income if you become unemployed for a while. That is the fundamental principle that is important to uphold. After all, it is happening, and it has happened for a long time, that there will be an increase in income inequality, but of course it is not at a level where it is still not attractive for people with high incomes to join this insurance scheme. But it is also clear that with the benefit rate we have, the value of the daily allowance is being undermined just as slowly, and that is why I am also pleased with what the Minister has also said, namely that this is a problem that we must look at. The model we have, we have to cherish. We need to develop it and we need to work on it. What is also good about the Danish daily allowance model and the Danish flexicurity model is that it is not only good in times of crisis, but is actually good in times of recovery, because there are more people who pay for it, and in the end it is the state that makes sure that the money is there, whether there is a big move or there is a small move on this insurance scheme. But we cannot support the model that lies here, firstly because of the obvious fact that if we voted for this, we should find the money immediately. It is, of course, a very healthy principle in this House that if you put forward a proposal that costs money, you also point out where that money should come from. That's how the first elementary thing is. Secondly, to stop cutting down on the value of unemployment benefits is something we are constantly discussing, and then I leave it safe to others, following on from what the Minister for Employment also said, to look at when that discussion will be relevant. But thank you for once again having the opportunity to discuss what I think is quite unique and one of the most beautiful things we have in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131555	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131600	I would like to thank you for the unveiled tribute to the benefit system. I share the view that this is important; it is the third leg of our labour market scandal. But how little does it take to break off the third leg of the stool? How far down can we put the real value of unemployment benefits in relation to people's wage income before the legs of the stool break off?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131625	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131628	Well, there's more discussion than cash benefits. One relates to the level, and I am not able to say here exactly where that level is. It is clear that developments must be monitored very closely both in relation to general wage developments, in relation to price developments and, of course, in relation to the extent to which it is spread in relation to the benefit system. And we in the Social Democratic Party, together with the terrible trade union movement we are part of, are doing so by the government and by the Minister of Employment, as he said. Because it is of course important to follow developments. It is, of course, the same discussion we have had in relation to the length of the benefit period. Well, we can see that fortunately most people get to work relatively quickly. There is a period of decline, and when the end date comes, there is an increase again, in other words, in relation to when you find yourself in the labour market. Does this mean that one can say that it has to be 1 year shorter or 1 year longer, or where is that level? It is, after all, a balancing of many different factors.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131725	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131727	The rapporteur referred earlier to the need for funding, and in this case it is not so difficult, because the down-regulation that has taken place was clearly used to finance tax cuts. You can then roll them back, and then we will find ourselves in a situation where the money is available for the benefit system. Isn't that a very good connection to set up there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131752	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131754	Well, maybe that's where we're going to look at it a little differently, in other words, in relation to whether you can put the treasure up here with a fingertips and then spend the money there. There we are bound by what we are trying to do here: on the one hand, we have, through this time of crisis, kept our hands on both employees and self-employed companies, and on the other hand we have pursued a very responsible policy in which it balances. So the problem is real and we are following developments very closely, but we are probably not in a place where we say that we are now voting for this and raising the tax accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131828	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521131846	Thank you. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that work should pay off, and that is why we are also dealing with the labour market reforms that we have had and implemented since the change of system back in 2001. After all, it is reforms that have intended to make it attractive to be in jobs and thus contribute to the growth and development of our society. This draft parliamentary resolution, which has been tabled by the Enhedslisten, is about stopping the payment of the allowance, as it is formulated, so as to compensate for less adjustment of the daily allowance of 0.75%. in the years 2021-2025. In general terms, however, raising the daily allowance would undoubtedly weaken employment and increase public expenditure. After all, the daily allowance commission came back in 2015 with many different suggestions for improvements, and we have been warmly supporting the Left about the improvement of the daily allowance system back in 2015, and by among other things. to add an extra 300 million. kr. we have made it more flexible and created the possibility that it is attractive also to take jobs of shorter duration when, unfortunately, you are available for a period of time. So for the Left, it is about ensuring that it pays to work, ensuring that there is security around our unemployment benefit system, and then we stand by the 2012 agreement when we had a social democratic government. It was, after all, an agreement which, contrary to what is going on right now, ensured tax relief, ensured that it was more profitable to work and, indeed, part of it was a financing that was about allowing the benefits to increase less than the normal price and wage developments. And if you're going to make it right, it's 1.1 billion. I think that would have served the Enhedslisten if Enhedslisten had explained this in the motion for a resolution and indicated how the money should be found, but I can now understand in the dialogue with the Socialist rapporteur that it is tax increases that have been answered and the Left has long since disappeared; it is certainly not tax increases that we should have more of, after all, they have come in great measure during this parliamentary term. So the Left cannot support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521132154	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521132158	I am sure that the rapporteur got off long before we got there, but I would actually like to know what the argument is for the fact that it is right and proper to erode the benefits, that is to say to let them rise less than price developments. What is the logic and the reasoning for this? Is it just that the benefits should preferably be lower and lower in general and in the long term?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521132227	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521132230	We certainly do not want that. Now it was part of a 2012 agreement and we stand by it, so we are not running away from it as a party. It was included as part of the funding to provide tax relief for ordinary people. We're preoccupied with the fact that there's a good coverage. If you have a low-wage job in Denmark, the coverage rate is about 80-90 per cent. And then it's true that if you're highly paid, there's a maximum. the amount to be paid in cash benefits, which means that the level of coverage is somewhat lower. After all, we must always find the balance here for how we ensure that it is still attractive both to go to work, but also to be on board and pay off your cash-flow quota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521132333	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521132337	I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware that it is the cashiers who pay approx. Two thirds of the expenditure on the daily allowance is their cash contribution, which finances the greater part and the system, in periods of low unemployment, actually makes profits.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521132359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521132402	Yeah, exactly. In times of very, very low unemployment, it is primarily Members who pay, but in times when unemployment can unfortunately be much higher, it is after all the State that ensures that its hands are held under the benefit system. You just have to be aware of that. So in the end, it is also taxpayers who go to work and pay taxes that also ensure that we have an allowance system. That's how the model is screwed up. We stand by it. And we also say clearly that we want there to be a safe and secure benefit system, and we are still concerned about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521132441	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521132459	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by saying that I think that Mr. Hans Andersen came to say something up here that was a little wrong. Because he said that these 2012 tax reliefs, which took money from the benefit recipients, benefited ordinary people. I think sir... Hans Andersen agrees that benefit recipients are also ordinary people. Well, I hope that's the way it is. However, I would like to start by saying that it is commendable that a proposal such as this is coming forward, even at this time when we are having a debate on the level of daily allowance coverage. There we in the Danish People's Party agree that this should be looked at, and I would actually like to start by inviting the government and the minister to take a meeting with the interested parties on how to proceed with what we are going to look at, with the coverage rate not because we are going to negotiate on this motion for a resolution, but so that we can see what opportunities there are in the future to look at the coverage level of the daily allowance. I agree with Mrs Jette Gottlieb that there has been a erosion and I cannot help but address the 2012 tax reform. It was, by the way, when Mrs Mette Frederiksen was Minister for Employment and I call her Mrs Mette Frederiksen because she was Minister for Employment at the time when this was being done. And I know it's in the field of taxation that it's been made. But this meant, in fact, that the level of coverage was eroded, so that until today there has been less regulation of DKK 700. per month of the daily subsistence allowance. And when that deal expires in 2023, we'll be up to 1,000 kroner. per month in the case of minor adjustments to the daily allowance. This means that if you hadn't made that tax agreement in 2012, the maximum daily allowance rate would be DKK 19,322. have been DKK 20,322. Then you have to remember, when you talk about it, that it's not because every low-paid person gets it, because they don't come up with that. To get the DKK 19,322, which is the maximum daily allowance today, you actually have to have an income of DKK 23,336. of the salary. We're probably down to 80%, and if you only have an income of 20,000-21,000 kroner, you get below that amount. Then you will not get the maximum daily allowance rate, nor would you if the daily allowance rate were raised. You still wouldn't get up to it. Some people have used to say that if we put it up to 23,000 kroner, all the low-paid 23,000 kroner. on daily subsistence allowances per month. You don't. But gets max. 90% or maybe even less, depending on what your income is. So what would suit the government would be to grab hold and say: we are going to take back what we took in the tax reform in 2012 and to correct the fucking thing that was done back then. You could start by correcting that and saying: we will bring that back to the daily allowance. This could be done in the first place, and then you could always look at how the coverage rate should be forward-looking. We in the Danish People's Party think this is the way to start walking. It could be the beginning. Instead of starting by raising it to 23,000 kroner. You could take this money back. That would be $1,000. More. It would be commendable for the government to say that a mistake was made in 2012 and that one was willing to rectify it. I would say that, as the proposal is here, the Danish People's Party will abstain from voting on it, because there are many good intentions in it, and we know that there will be a greater debate on the level of daily allowances that we in the Danish People's Party are also ready to take. We know, of course, that the FH has come up with a proposal and we know that there is already a great deal of debate on how the coverage should be in the future. We do not want to lock ourselves on to where it is going to end, but it is a good move that the FH has made and from which one can work. And then we, who are interested in looking at it, have to see where it might end up. I would urge the Minister to call the parties interested in looking at the coverage rate for a meeting on how to proceed with this with the coverage rate of the daily allowance. However, as I have said, we shall abstain from voting on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133009	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133013	Thank you. It is true that the coverage rate, if you are not so high paid and are only about 20,000 DKK. or something like that is also higher, so you hardly go down in pay even if you lose your job, because you have pretty much the same thing because you don't fall into income when you switch to cash benefits. That's one thing. The second is that, now that the Danish People's Party believes it is a good idea to roll it back from 2012, should the funding be obtained by rolling back the tax cuts, and does the rapporteur know what it will do about employment, so that it will actually be harder to get people into work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133053	I do not think it would have done anything, but the Danish People's Party voted against this agreement when it came to vote 2012. That's before Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen joined the Danish Parliament. At that time, we were very much opposed to this agreement and we believe that it should not have been introduced at all, and we therefore feel that the government has a responsibility to rectify it. They took some money in transfer income, and since then the Danish People's Party has also been given a rate regulation on pensions and such things removed. We think this is a completely wrong way. The same parties also extended this agreement a few years ago, and we thought it was harmful. But I really don't think it's gonna matter, because I don't believe this about people saying that we're gonna choose cash benefits. If you get 21,000, you can't get a maximum. If you get 21,000 kroner, even if the daily allowance rate is raised, you would get less than 19,000 kroner, and I think it is just over 18,000 kroner you would get. I didn't bring the calculator up here to figure it out. But it's not like you just go up on that bet. It will still be attractive for low-income recipients to take a job instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133204	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133207	It was just to establish that the Danish People's Party will finance what they say they want to be able to return by raising the taxes that they then lowered. It is just to get it in place, that is, that you want to raise the taxes, and that says the Danish People's Party has no impact on employment if you raise those taxes again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133226	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133230	There were many things at stake when the agreement was made, and the regulation on the daily allowance was taken to finance part of what was at stake, and that is far from it all that came through then. And the savings that are on the daily allowance do not run into so much that it destroys something, because we can easily find other savings on that if that is finally the way it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133300	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133325	Thank you for the floor. Again, I have the pleasure of filling in for Mr. Karsten Hønge. I shall make a speech for him, and it goes as follows: the motion for a resolution here requires the government to put forward a legislative proposal to compensate for the reduction in the amount of allowances of 0.75%. in the years 2021-2025. As Mr. Karsten Hønge also mentioned for the treatment of B 206, SF wants to strengthen the coverage of the daily allowance, and we have just proposed a daily allowance increase for 1 May. In fact, increasing the daily allowance is an important means of ensuring both the safety of the wage-receiving families and the Danish flexicurity model. The Enhedslisten's proposal sets out to provide a compensation allowance for the daily allowance and SF can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133421	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133443	Thank you very much. With this motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten once again focuses on the daily allowance and also the daily allowance level. This is a debate that we have had before both in the Parliamentary Chamber and also in the two hands of Mrs Jette Gottlieb and myself. The position of the Radical Left is, of course, that the flexicurity model must be very strong and solid. One of the ways you can see it is by supporting the model; that is to say, you keep an eye on how the connection is. Fortunately, in Denmark we have a very high level of support for the 'A' boxes, and that is one of the things that we in the Radical Left are also watching. Because if you can no longer see the trick of being a member of an unemployment fund, that is, if you are one of those who has high wages and low unemployment, then that is the problem. But at this stage we cannot see any problem, so the Radical Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133553	This gave rise to a brief comment from Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133558	Now it is the case that there are very, very many benefit recipients who have gone into the breach to increase the daily allowance if they are to be used as a safety net. So what is happening is that we are letting our labour market flexicurity model wreak havoc because flexibility is provided by employees, but it is not being matched by the security that was in the system because you cannot finance your daily expenses with the level of unemployment that has gradually become available. So I ask: how far down can the level of unemployment benefit be pressed before the Radicals become nervous about whether the model is valid?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133637	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133641	I am not going to put a penny on it, but I can repeat what I said in my rapporteur's speech, that we in the Radical Left have a concern if it turns out that there is no support for the benefit system; that is, if it turns out that the level of coverage or compensation for the people mentioned earlier by Mrs Jette Gottlieb himself, who are involved in financing it here, namely those with high wages and low incomes, comes down to a level where they can no longer see the scam by being a member of an unemployment fund, then that is what the flexicurity model stands and wobbles. But it is not the way things are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133717	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133721	But is the radical rapporteur aware that the level of insurance itself is falling at the moment and that it is, moreover, the most declining for the lowest incomes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133730	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133734	That's one of the things we need to look into. How has it actually looked beyond time? And that is also one of the things that we in the Radical Left are very interested in watching. I also heard from the Minister that the government is curious about this, but I must also say that those with the lowest incomes are, of course, those who currently have the highest level of coverage, and that is quite important to take into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133758	We thank the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Andersen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133817	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Enhedslisten for the proposal. A little further to the previous debate we had on the previous point, this is, after all, a little more about a general allowance discussion. In the Conservative People's Party, we always work to make it pay to work. It is a nice basic principle that you support yourself and your family before you go to the neighbor and ask for money. It is important that, as a society, we create the best possible initiative for people to support themselves, and that was part of the basic principle behind the tax reform that implemented the less regulation of daily allowances. Then there is some confusion in the proposal, I understand, between the Enhedslisten and the Ministry of Employment about what the consequences of the proposal might be, but I would actually like to read out from the proposal in relation to the Enhedslisten's part. The second paragraph of the comments on the proposal in the right-hand column states: "It does not cost much money to stop the erosion of the value of benefits as proposed by this resolution. The Minister for Employment's response to the BEU alm. Part One - Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring 63, the year of parliament 2020-21 shows that the price is approx. 200 million DKK It says, "It doesn't cost much money to stop the hooliganism." It may be that I am still used to local politics, but I do think that 200 million. kr. is a lot of money. In an average municipality in this country, it is roughly the same as the annual budget as running the entire children's area. And in case we needed these lousy 200 million. kr., where would that money come from? This is something that has been questioned by many in relation to the proposal here, and it also helps to ensure that the Conservative People's Party cannot, of course, support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133951	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521133958	I would just like to make it a problem with the 200 million. kr. It is not a large amount of money in a state budget, but the Ministry is making up a much larger factor, and the Ministry is doing so on the basis of what I will allow myself to call the lazy effect. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees with the idea set out in the accounting machine of the Ministry of Finance that if the daily allowance is increased by DKK 1, then there are so many people who will be fired or will not be looking for work anymore because the daily allowance has been DKK 1. higher. I would like to ask whether that logic is a logic with which the Conservative People's Party agrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521134041	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521134044	Thank you. I would always say, whether it is a state budget or not, that 200 million. kr. is a lot of money. In addition to that, I would like to say that I too began by saying that working must always pay off. The rainwaters over in the ministries are clearly better at raining than I am, but there is no doubt that what may be the challenge of it may be that it becomes less attractive to work and there should preferably always be an advantage in going to work, also financially, compared to not doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521134113	We thank the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521134128	It is a proposal from the Enhedslisten, and I wondered a little when Enhedslisten says it is only 200 million. kr. why you haven't gotten it into the finance negotiations when you sit and negotiate with the government. There was something more to decide about. And you've been sitting there making two laws of finance now. So I wonder why you don't bring it in there, but try to get it in here. But fair enough, now it comes as a motion for a resolution, and of course we are dealing with that. The daily allowance area is not something chiseled in stone. Changes are constantly being made to it, and I believe that changes will also be made to it in the future. It would be natural because society is changing, the labour market is changing, so of course the benefit system must also change. What it will look like and whether you can do better, if you can make it more flexible and it may well be that we are not opposed to looking at in New Citizens. It may well be that you choose to say: well, when we can look at the number who are unemployed, that they are for very, very short time, it may well be that giving a higher benefit is more rewarding, but then shortening the benefit period in general. Maybe that's the right solution. We haven't gotten to anything. We're not gonna go out there and tell them we're just gonna cut the daily allowance. We're just saying that the benefit area isn't something chiseled in stone. This has been changed on an ongoing basis in the Danish Parliament, and I also believe that in the future some changes will have to be made to the benefit system, so that it is always about how the labour market and society change. But just raising the daily allowance rate, as proposed, would be bad for Danish economy. It would be bad for those people who are without a job and want to enter the labour market. And that would be bad for the motivation that there will be for people who may have to take a low-wage job to enter the labour market. It will also in my optics be a wet cloth on the face of the many people who every day stand up and go to work in a low-wage job and who suddenly can see that you can have more of being at home than actually getting up and making an effort and earn your own money. So we cannot support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521134359	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521134414	Thank you. In the KD 2030 plan we spend just over 5 billion. kr. to develop a senior pension. We want to reduce the recovery period in relation to the daily allowance by half, because it was a capital roar that was made when both the allowance period was shortened and at the same time it made it harder to earn the daily allowance. For that would not create the necessary mobility in the labour market. After all, the incentive to take short-term jobs is removed. We want the integration benefit to be abolished, we want to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. We will also abolish set-off in the national pension for earned income, one's own and the spouse's. And then we want to strengthen the trade union movement by raising the union quota. These are some of the labour market policy initiatives that we have, and the latter must be seen in the light of the fact that we want to increase the share of foreign labour and lower the wage requirement, and then we need to strike a balance that strengthens our trade union movement. In the funding we have, we don't have the money for this proposal. But that doesn't change the fact that it calls for a discussion, and that's where I feel a bit like Poul Schlüter did at the time: that ideology is junk when you have to discuss these things. Because it is very good to stand and say that it must pay to work and that we must drive some ideological direction on one side of the House and another ideological direction on the other side of the Chamber. I always reverse the thesis of equality and inequality in relation to liberal and bourgeois fundamentalism by saying that it is an independent objective, including for liberal and bourgeois, to combat excessive inequality. For whose bourgeois-liberals want support for example. the sacred grail of the internal market, namely the free movement of labour, and the people must support it, then we need to have some equality in society. Because otherwise the tensions will be too great, and that's the kind that yellow vests are made of. And that is why this issue, which Mrs Jette Gottlieb raises, is actually quite justified. Now Mr. Bent Bøgsted talks about the reform that has been made, in other words, in relation to these tax cuts. And to that I would like to add that I remember that when I was political rapporteur for the Left, Mr. Søren Pind with some suggestions that we should lower the rate of transfer income in order to finance that tax relief. The first thing that happened was that the then prime minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, called me, and then he said, "That!" You're just pouring that down the board. I did, and sir. Søren Pind never forgave me since to pour it so heavily down the board. And then it is the irony of fate that exactly the same proposal, the same funding for tax reliefs, will later be adopted by a social democratic government under Helle Thorning-Schmidt. It's a story I think is very funny, and now it's so told here from Parliament's platform. But that's the irony of fate. Back to the specific proposal: I think it is a mistake not to give funding to proposals. And, as I said, when the proposals that are being put forward, regardless of how sympathetic we may find them, are either not funded by the proposers themselves, or we ourselves have a funding in our 2030 plan, we are not able to support the proposal, although the discussion is important, and although I think it is a sympathetic proposal, and although it calls for us to basically look at the fact that inequality does not rise too strongly in this society. For the consequences for our businesses and for the liberal European order can also be quite serious. Unfortunately, with these words, I have to reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521134916	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521134923	That is because the rapporteur now mentions the KD 2030 plan. I'm gonna sit down and read these things. I love looking at these numbers. And I've got such a hate-love relationship with the KD 2030 plan. For now it is said that the proposal has not been financed and that it cannot therefore be voted for. However, much of what is wanted in the KD 2030 plan, i.e. the improvements that cost money, is financed with debt. They are financed by not financing it, but by simply pushing a debt of 0.7 percent. of bnp on to future generations. Isn't it a little easy to say that people don't want to finance it? I also believe that there should be funding for proposals. But if you just finance it by saying that this is a loan that we're just paying off, shouldn't you have tightened it up in the KD plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521135007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521135010	No, because we have also decided completely in the light of the recommendations made by economists that, on top of the corona crisis, we need investment in our society, to lay down a debt. I believe, moreover, that it is close to the government's 0.7% rate. of bnp. And that's far from it, far from it. So this is an investment we're making towards 2030, and we're happy to admit it. But everything has to be financed within that framework, otherwise we will go beyond the framework that we have adopted and that we have got economists to agree to is in order and is within the framework of responsibility. And you can have different political views on that, but that is our position on it. But things, that is to say what we are bringing, must be financed, and what we say 'yes' must be financed within the framework that we have laid down there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521135114	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521135116	Yeah, 0.7 percent. is above the budget law's limit of 0.5%, you might say. So if you had put it at 1%, you would have had even more money. So it is an estimate, just as the rapporteur says, whether it is reasonable to send 571⁄2 billion. kr. In the children's room as a debt that has to be paid off at some point or whether you don't mean it. The question is whether it is felt that this generation should ensure that their consumption in the public sector is limited in relation to the projects being carried out and ensure that there is no bill for the next generation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521135149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521135153	Well, I acknowledge that sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen has a strong ideological approach to this. We don't. We go in and look at the recommendations of economists and we go in and look at what is sensible in the given situation. And that is where we believe that investment must be made because otherwise we risk losing generations on the floor. We can't afford that. And that is why we have chosen to say that this is the framework within which we believe it is responsible to finance our expenditure. And we stand by that. And it says to read. What I am just saying here is that one should take a different view of what the framework should be like. The Budget Act has nothing to do with the European Stability Pact in this context or with it, because it is an offshoot of it. But it's still 3%.The's' rule in force in the Stability Pact. But that is our framework, and then everything just has to be financed within that framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521135247	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521135309	Thank you very much. The Enhedslisten has therefore put forward proposals to stop the dismantling of unemployment benefits now We are actually worried, not to say almost nervous that our benefit system and hence our entire flexicurity system is about to rable. There are many signs that we are in the eleventh hour, or perhaps rather the twelfth hour, if the system is to survive and thus the whole labour market model survives. Because it is precisely a crucial condition for the wage and employment conditions that we negotiate through the agreements that we know that we have for rent and food and other necessities if we are fired. The signs of urgency are many. The daily allowance has actually been halved in relation to previous income. The principle, formulated by the fathers and mothers of the benefit system, that you should have 90 per cent. of previous salary and then with an addition: however, at most, it has meant that today's coverage is less than half of the previous income for large groups of employees and I am not only talking about the high-paid; it is also the case that it is actually half for those who receive the average wage and that has happened because of numerous decisions on less regulation, most recently with the tax settlement in 2012, but also before it with the wage pools and those who have gone ahead. However, the decisions on minor regulation have come in increasing pace, and especially the one from 2012 is then only phased in so that it can really be felt here from 2018 onwards. That's one thing. The second point is that at present over 300,000 employees have taken out wage insurance in addition to or in place of the benefit. This has a special effect, because insurance of this kind is not possible for everyone. It is clear that if you are safely employed, have a long period of notice and, by the way, a nicely high level of pay, it is easy and cheap to take out such insurance, but it is not if you are loosely employed, it is not if you are winter-fired, it is in many situations not for hourly-paid, because their job security is so much less, and because their firing warning is so much shorter. So the very fact of relying on an insurance supplement is not sustainable for the system as such. Having said that, I can also give another example, which most people probably are not aware of, but it is not possible for several of those who offer such wage insurance to draw them if you are over 60 years of age, and why not? Nah, that's because the unemployment risk is so much greater for those people, but if you go in and try it out and you can try to go into one of the websites and then try to sign yourself in and ask for a calculation then there will be an immediate announcement called: Since you are over 60 years old, we don't take out that insurance. It's an important knowledge to have, because I don't think so many people know. Now we have seen with the corona, which has given clear light to the inadequacy of the way in which we have formulated it, what is to be used as reasonable amounts to replace lost earnings, and that is, of course, as we discussed earlier, DKK 23 000. per month instead of DKK 19,322, which is the maximum daily allowance rate this year. That in itself is thought-provoking, because it shows that the government is well aware that something is limping here. Our proposal is therefore that we immediately put an end to the culling, as it was statutory with the tax settlement in 2012, and that, in future, the maximum daily allowance rate should be regulated in line with wage developments. But at the same time we say, and it is an important addition, that we think it is really important that we maintain the general and universal nature of unemployment insurance: that all unemployed people receive the same rate. We should not have an unemployment benefit system where there are major differences between the high-paid and the low-paid. We should not have a distinction between the safe employees and the loose employees or between the short-term unemployed and the long-term unemployed or between the young and the middle-aged and the old. We need a universal benefit system and it is important to maintain it. Right now we are in negotiations on the problems of the long-term unemployed, and we are also constantly being made aware of the difficulties of 50+-year-olds in getting jobs; we are well aware that there are structural problems associated with being unemployed, which the individual is not master of himself. But for that reason, the Enhedslisten stands for example. Very critical of proposals for a benefit system, where a higher rate is applied to the first three months of the unemployment period, so that a higher benefit can be obtained, and then you go down on the still hollowed-out rate. If the level of expenditure of the unemployed fell accordingly after three months of unemployment, there could be some talk, but that is not the case. The daily allowance system, and thus the entire Danish labour market model, stands and falls by maintaining the solidarity element of the scheme and maintaining the certainty that all employees have for their normal support in cases where they are fired. And that is also the guarantee that as many as possible will contribute to insurance, and that is also the condition for us to make the system survive. So we are concerned and we hope that something will happen within a very short period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521135903	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521135928	The debate is open. We give the floor to the Minister for Employment first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521135933	Thank you for the floor. With the motion for a resolution that we are now considering, the Left proposes to reinstate the residence requirement for the right to daily allowance. The Left justifies the proposal by having a close relationship with Danish society and contributing to the Danish community before you can receive public services. First of all, I wonder why we need to discuss this matter again. It is only a little over one year since a majority in this Parliament found that the residence requirement for entitlement to unemployment benefit had many harmful effects and that it should be abolished as soon as possible. Let me start by stating that the government has not changed its attitude to the residence requirement. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. The residence requirement is not good for Danish employees, international mobility or security in the labour market. The residence requirement is imposed on Danish employees and will therefore not only deprive non-western immigrants of the right to benefit. This is directly apparent from the draft law which introduced the residence requirement at the time. About one fifth of the 3,200 people affected are estimated to be Danish nationals. If you look at the estimate of the countries affected, the residence requirement will hit more Danes than any other country. Many Danish employees who have had a job abroad will thus be affected by the reintroduction of the residence requirement. We also discussed this at the time of the abolition, but the Left does not seem to care about that consequence. The government isn't. In addition, the residence requirement also applies to persons from e.g.: United States, Canada, EU countries, countries outside the EU/EEA, New Zealand and Australia. The residence requirement therefore makes it more difficult to attract and retain foreign and Danish workers who wish to return to the Danish labour market after a number of years abroad. It can, for example, be done. be Danes who go abroad to work and improve their skills for some years and who have acquired valuable skills. Restrictions on international labour market mobility were also highlighted by the social partners as they gave their full support to abolishing the residence requirement. In fact, when the residence requirement was abolished, there was not a single hearing answer against abolition. There was therefore broad agreement that it was a good idea to abolish the residence requirement. In addition to weakening labour market mobility, the residence requirement will also weaken the Danish flexicurity model. According to the previous government's own estimates, the residence requirement will mean that 13,600 people will resign from the benefit system. That would be a decline for our good Danish model. At the same time, it is worth remembering that rules already apply which ensure that, as a starting point, you have to have some connection with Danish society in order to be able to receive a daily allowance. There are, for example: a requirement that you must have been a member of an unemployment insurance fund for at least one year and that you must meet an income or employment requirement which it will take at least one year to meet. This means that third-country nationals who have not previously been in Denmark can, as a rule, only receive cash benefits after having been a member of an unemployment fund for at least one year and at the same time have had a certain amount of employment during that period. At the same time, it also applies to third-country nationals that they must have a valid residence permit in order to be able to go to Denmark at all. Finally, the residence requirement is also difficult for the cashiers to administer. This is partly because in a number of cases manual processing is necessary and it may take time to provide the necessary information. Danske A-kasses has carried out an analysis among 21 A-kasses, which indicates that the residence requirement for the first 7 months of 2019 has resulted in 3,746 cases, i.e. unemployment declarations, have passed from digital to much longer manual processing in the A-kasses. This includes more than one third of these cases concern cashiers who are not affected by the residence requirement but need manual handling of cases in order to be able to document it. In addition, countries find it difficult to respond to requests for proof of residence and residence of citizens in connection with the administration of the residence requirement for entitlement to benefit. Among other things, it can be done. is due to the fact that not all countries have the same central register of residence and residence of citizens as Denmark. The proposers therefore believe that the cashiers, who are busy helping the unemployed as a result of the corona crisis and implementing special corona measures to mitigate the consequences of the crisis, should give priority to spending time on manual handling of the residence requirement and chasing information about the former travel patterns of the unemployed, for example. other EU countries. It is all to manage a residence requirement that is harmful to the labour market and the Danish model. I think that those parties which, despite the harmful effects on the labour market that I have mentioned here, are still considering voting in favour of the resolution should at least consider the timing of introducing it now. It just doesn't seem well thought out. The government and a large number of players in Denmark have a full focus on getting Denmark and the labour market to the best possible extent through the corona crisis. The motion for a resolution by the Left is moving in the opposite direction. In their comments on the proposal, the Left also states that the government believes that there should be easier access for foreigners to Danish welfare benefits. Let me make it clear: the government is still in favour of strict immigration policy and residence requirements, but we must also stop when the proposals become symbolic and harm more than they benefit. In conclusion, I would like to sum up that re-establishing the residence requirement for entitlement to unemployment benefit will affect Danish employees, weaken support for the unemployment benefit system and the Danish flexicurity model, harm mobility in the labour market and increase uncertainty for people with jobs abroad. On this basis, the Government cannot support the proposal put forward. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521140525	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. We therefore allow room for the next rapporteur, Mr President. Jeppe Bruus of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521140546	Thank you. The proposal that we are now discussing is about abolishing the residence requirement for the right to daily allowances, which the current majority voted to abolish just over a year and a half ago. That majority still stands, and that is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521140603	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Socialists. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. You gotta stick to it when it goes so fast. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521140622	Thank you, President. I will probably not do it as quickly as the previous rapporteur. This proposal is about the reintroduction of residence requirements for entitlement to unemployment benefit in Denmark, and the Danish People's Party has not changed its attitude to it since the last time. We still think it was a good arrangement to introduce that one should have stayed in Denmark or in another EU/EEA country or in Switzerland for 7 years in the last 12 years in order to be entitled to Danish daily allowance. There are also quite a few exceptions here in relation to Danes who have worked abroad, which means that an internationally oriented Danish business community benefits Danish employees who have worked abroad for a number of years, and other Danes who have been working abroad. They are exempted from the work requirement when they have worked in public Danish interest or in a Danish company abroad. I think that sounds reasonable, and it reminds me of what I actually think it's a little more relaxed that was the last time. But I do not understand it if it is the case that the Danish daily allowance system is intended to finance citizens from third countries who come to Denmark and get work. And that applies wherever they come from... whether they come from Asia or Africa or the Middle East. If they come to Denmark to work, they must, if they lose their jobs, go home to the country from which they come, where they can then receive benefits. For the intention is that they come to Denmark to work and not to get Danish benefits. So it is right and proper, in the opinion of the Danish People's Party, that Danes who go out and work in Danish interest or for Danish companies should be taken into account. This is also the case if EU citizens come to Denmark to work and then they are still covered by the rules where they can get unemployment benefit when they have worked in Denmark for the time that is now required. So, of course, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal that we did last time, and that is what we are doing now, and we have not changed our position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521140842	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. And we give the floor to Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521140859	Thank you for the floor. And this will be the last speech of the day that I'm making for Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge, who unfortunately cannot be here today. With the motion for a resolution, the proposers want to reinstate the residence requirement for the right to daily allowances introduced by the previous bourgeois government, but which was fortunately abolished by the 2020 financial law agreement between the government, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Alternative. In the SF, we were opposed to the residence requirement for entitlement to unemployment benefit from the start, partly because it is bureaucratic, but mainly because it excludes those people who otherwise have a link with the labour market and meet the employment requirement and the length of service requirement in order to obtain unemployment benefit and thus are registered in an unemployment fund and support the Danish flexicurity system. There was before we abolished the residence requirement, for example. refugees, who had done exactly what we wanted them to do, had struggled to get to work, had joined the trade union and the unemployment insurance fund and fully integrated into the Danish labour market, only to find out from their unemployment insurance fund that they could just as well resign because they couldn't get a daily allowance if they became unemployed anyway. It is absurd when we want those who come here to integrate. The SF therefore does not wish to reinstate the residence requirement and cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141019	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141031	Thank you very much. Like the other rapporteurs, the Radical Left has not changed its position on this issue either. We have been very pleased that the 2020 Finance Act helped to abolish the residence requirement for the right to daily allowances, and I must admit that I am also a little puzzled about why the Left would actually discourage people from travelling abroad as they lose their rights. But the bottom line is that the Radical Left has not changed its position and cannot support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141111	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141128	Thank you very much. In fact, the Enhedslisten spent a great deal of effort just over a year ago on abolishing the scheme. We succeeded, and that is why, of course, we are not voting for it to be reinstated. As a small curiosity I can mention that I subsequently found out that with the different types of posting I have participated in, I would have lost my daily allowance if it had been introduced 5 years earlier than it was.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141157	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Andersen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141211	Thank you for that and thank you to the Left for the proposal. I can tell you that we are another party in the line that has not changed its mind on this issue. Basically, we think it is fair that in Danish society we make demands on citizens who come to Denmark in relation to having had a certain link with the labour market in order to get unemployment benefits. That is why, of course, we also support the proposal from the Left. There is just something about the fact that we are probably past 1 May, which was the time limit in which the intention was that the government should have made a proposal in relation to this having to be resolved. The Conservative People's Party still wants us to have fewer unemployed foreigners in Denmark, and we still want those who come to Denmark to get a job and create their own self-supporting existence. There are still places where we can do much better in terms of getting people into employment. There are plenty of good experiments and schemes in the municipalities, and perhaps we should use the gunpowder to try to make it more attractive to be in the labour market than to be outside. With this proposal, there is a revenue of 147 million. kr. more to make initiatives to get more people into the labour market so let's do it. We can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141316	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker, who is standing by, is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141328	When the residence requirement was removed last time, it was simply aliens' policy disguised as employment policy no longer was it. We were very opposed to this in the New Citizens' Party. That is why we are pleased that the Left is putting forward a proposal to roll it back. We are also pleased that the comments say that Danish nationals who are seconded have the opportunity to return and still retain their daily subsistence allowances, and this also applies to their spouses, who are also exempt. This was one of the problems we actually saw in it, because we do not want to harm Danes who move out and work for Danish companies for some years and then come back with their spouses. I don't want you to get hit by this, and that's why I'm glad it's addressed in this. That is why we can easily support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141416	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141436	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen's speech here and, as such, the Conservative speech is precisely the reason why we are unable to put a bourgeois-liberal agenda in this country, thereby creating a credible, qualified and strong counter-play for a government that wants to state everything and ban private institutions, and what do I know? Because we dare not speak freedom. We'd rather stick people. Because there's alien politics in everything. This is about binding people, and this is not appropriate either in terms of employment or again in relation to mobility in the labour market, which the industry is after all asking for. After all, no business organisation thought this was a good idea when it was carried out no one. Now I can see that mr. Jeppe Bruus nods, and I hope that's a confirmation of what I'm saying, and not of the other, because otherwise I'd be surprised. However, there were no business organisations and no companies that thought this was a good idea when it was implemented on the contrary. And that is again because there must be a Muslim behind every veil for every civil-liberal debate, and that prevents us from creating freedom. That is the sad thing, and that is the problem, and that is what makes everything go out of proportion. So we are very, very pleased that today there is a majority that will not be involved in implementing this proposal, which we must also strongly warn against.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141626	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141627	Now it is not everything that comes from the professional organisations that has to be accepted. Sometimes business organisations also have a focus on their own things and not on society as a whole. Well, that's not always the case with those professional organizations. Secondly, can the rapporteur not confirm that this is not a proposal about Muslims, that it is a proposal about third-country citizens, with 80% of them. is covered by this, and so there are some who are Danish citizens and that in the proposal from the Left they actually ensure that Danish citizens and their wives and others do not benefit from it here? So 80%. will be third-country citizens and not Muslims.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141710	But Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has his focus, and it's always about foreigners. It is never about the whole, and it is just as legitimate as it is when the business community focuses on their interests. That does not mean that I necessarily agree with either of them, because I am not married to any of them. But here I very much agree with the business community that this is bad. This proposal is bad for employment and for labour market mobility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141742	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141746	It is a legitimate view to think that this is a bad proposal, and that is why we are not voting in favour of it. However, the rapporteur started by saying that when the others could vote for it, it was because of the fact that it is about Muslims. It's an assumption, a mistake. When we vote for this, it is because it is third-country citizens, and we do not, generally speaking, believe in New Citizens that foreigners should have the right to Danish transfer income; it should only be for Danish citizens. Well, that's what this is all about, and that's what it's all about. It doesn't matter if you come from the United States, Canada, Germany, Korea or a country in Africa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141824	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141825	No, what I said was that everything is about foreign policy, and when everything is about foreign policy, you are not able to create an agenda based on freedom. That is what is at the heart of the matter, and that is in relation to freedom for municipalities, freedom for schools and so on, and I think that from a bourgeois-liberal point of view is a little sad and a little awkward. And then I used that picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141906	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Christian Democrats. The next speaker is rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521141923	Thank you. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that you have a close connection with Danish society and thus also contribute to the Danish community before you can receive public services. It is a healthy principle that you have contributed to Danish society before you can be entitled to unemployment benefit. It's basically about justice. It is about looking after our welfare societies. That is why we have also tabled this motion for a resolution today on the re-establishment of the residence requirement for entitlement to the daily allowance. Re-entry of the residence requirement is part of the Left's alien initiative from the beginning of 2021. When the Left last had government responsibility, we were also in charge of introducing a residence requirement for entitlement to unemployment benefit. We did so in order that, as a foreigner, you should not be able to come to Denmark and raise unemployment benefits without having contributed to Danish society first. The residence requirement meant that you had to stay in Denmark, Switzerland or another EU/EEA country for 7 years in the last 12 years in order to be entitled to benefit. Unfortunately, the government and the support parties have chosen to abolish this residence requirement, even though the Social Democratic Party chose to spread the principles of income on welfare benefits. The residence requirement otherwise increases the benefit by moving from public support to employment, while at the same time supporting the need to pay for work. That is why the Left continues to believe that this is a reasonable proposal. Now I have listened to the various rapporteurs, and I can count, so I can count together that it will not be today that the residence requirement will be reinstated. The Left can only regret this, but it does not change the fact that we think it is a question of fairness, and one can at least see that before the elections the Socialist Employment Rapporteur was of the opinion that the residence requirement had to be discussed with the social partners. Because, as I had to understand, we had to find solutions where we could get both residence requirements and income principles into such a solution. There I have to say that this is not where the Social Democrats are today. The Social Democrats no longer have that attitude. I fully agree that the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslist cannot support it. It's nothing new. The Christian Democrats share this view. And I would like to thank both Conservative, New Civil and Danish People's Party for their support for the residence requirement. Thank you for that, and thank you for your views and for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521142237	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked for the floor, and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521142306	The debate is open. We give the floor to the Minister of Justice as the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521142313	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling an important motion for a resolution to strengthen efforts to combat sexual abuse against children. It's nice to see the interest in the hall. With the proposal, the Danish People's Party focuses on a very important agenda, namely that childhood should be safe and good. A childhood should not be filled with pain, failure and abuse, that goes without saying, let alone be marked by vile sexual abuse, which, in my opinion, and I think most people think is among the most terrible crimes that exist. The children who are subjected to sexual abuse experience a huge loss of confidence on the part of adults, and the adults who violate commit a terrible crime. They're stealing the kids' childhood. It is wrong, as wrong as anything can be, because as adults it is our duty to protect children, not to exploit them. Can we do more to protect children from sexual abuse? Yes, I think we can, and as the Danish People's Party also points out, we have seen in recent years how the development of various digital media has made it easier to exploit children sexually. We must have done something about this, just as we, in general terms, want to combat child abuse, also with new and more powerful means. That is why the government, together with Save the Children on 17 May this year, just a few days ago, presented nine initiatives to combat sexual abuse of children. The initiatives aim to make us better at preventing, detecting and investigating sexual offences committed against children. At the same time, we want those who violate to be met with more consistency. We owe it to the children, and we owe it to the sense of justice. I would like briefly to highlight the initiatives in the motion for a resolution: firstly, we want to tighten up the penalties for sexual relations other than sexual intercourse with children, just as we are calling for the rape clause of the penal code to be changed so that children cannot give consent to sex with adults who are significantly older than the children themselves. In addition, we want to ban sex dolls who appear as children. We want to extend the children's certificate. The children's certificate is the certificate to be presented for employment in a post where, for example, you are employed. is entrusted with the work of children. This is true, for example. jobs as a teacher or trainer. We will extend the certificate so that in future it will appear if a trainer or teacher has committed an attack on young people between 15 and 17 years of age. Today, the limit is 15 years. And we want to ensure that people who have committed sexual assaults against children do not commit new abuses, even outside Denmark's borders. The Government will therefore introduce the possibility for the courts to issue an exit ban to persons convicted of sexual abuse. At the same time, the police must be able to withdraw the passport from the sentenced person during the period during which the exit ban applies. Precisely the police play an important role in combating the sexual abuse of children. It almost goes without saying. So, in order to strengthen police investigations into cases of sexual abuse against children, the government will give the police the opportunity to conduct secret searches in cases where a person is suspected of possessing and spreading material with sexual assault on children, and we will introduce a system in which financial institutions can share suspicious conditions and transfers of funds relating to remote abuse with the police. Unfortunately, as I said earlier, the Internet and social media have opened up new opportunities for digital violations of children to take place. Of course, I am thinking in particular of phenomena such as grooming and sextortion, which have unfortunately become more widespread in the wake of the spread of social media. That is why we will set up a working group to examine the need to amend the criminal code so that it follows digital developments. Finally, it can be mentioned that a concrete implementation of the remaining funds set aside in the Finance Act in 2018 will take place after presentation by the Danish People's Party and, of course, with the involvement of the parties behind that agreement at the time. All these initiatives must help to provide us with tools to combat sexual abuse of children in a more effective way than is happening today. In the autumn, the government will put forward the legislative proposals to implement the initiatives, and the initiatives will then come into force from January 2022. I would like to state that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party actually contains several good elements. For example: The Danish People's Party proposes that we ensure better training of the police so that the police have the right tools to deal with victims of sexual abuse. There is no doubt that the police must be properly dressed to cope with the very sensitive task of dealing with children who have been subjected to sexual abuse. That is why it is already part of the basic education for policemen today that they have to learn how to deal with victims of sexual abuse, as well as the further training in dealing with cases of sexual abuse, child cases and video interviews are part of the post and post-training of the police. We also already have specially trained video interviewers who conduct video interrogations of children. In addition, we ensure, among other things, that: with the support of the Danish People's Party, but of course also from a large number of other parties in the Chamber, with the exception of the Left and the Liberal Alliance, with the new multi-year agreement, that the police and prosecutors get more and better education. For example, there will be a set-up. a continuing training offer to the police aimed at targeting the police handling of cases relating, inter alia, to: rape, as well as setting up specialised teams in each of our police circles to contribute with knowledge of, among other things. rape cases. Special interrogation rooms are also being set up to ensure that victims of sexual abuse are in a particularly vulnerable situation, not least in the case of interrogation. I therefore believe that, in these ways, we are already going a long way to ensure that the police receive the right and as important training as is required to deal with these sensitive cases where the victims have been subjected to sexual abuse. Another proposal from the Danish People's Party is to impose a ban on persons convicted of sexual assault on children being able to have contact with minors. It is already the case today that people convicted of sexual abuse can be banned from contact with children they do not know, virtually, for example. via social media. They could also be banned from living with children under the age of 18 who are not their own and from receiving visits from children under the age of 18 who are not accompanied by an adult, just as they could be denied the right to work with children. I find it difficult to see how to enforce a general ban on physical contact with children in other situations. But I share the concern of the Danish People's Party that, unfortunately, we see that adults with bad intentions via the Internet have opportunities to make contact with children, according to what I said about grooming a little earlier. That is why it is also part of the government's proposal to protect adults who violate children that a working group should be set up to see that the rules of the criminal code fit the digital reality. The working group will include: should look at whether to make a special provision on grooming, where adults typically contact children via the Internet with the aim of sexually violating them. I also fully agree with the Danish People's Party that people convicted of sexual abuse against children should not be able to commit abuse in other countries. That is why, in its initiative, as I mentioned earlier, the government will allow the courts to issue an exit ban to persons convicted of sexual abuse, and will allow the police to withdraw the passport from the sentenced person during the period of the exit ban. Overall, there are several good elements in the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, but we cannot support the motion for a resolution, as several of the proposals, for example. It is based on the legislation and practice in force. Instead, we will listen to all the parties of the Danish Parliament when considering the bill that we will be presenting in the autumn, and of course we also hope that the Danish People's Party will be able to support the government's future bill. However, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party once again for the good intentions behind the resolution and for seriously throwing interest and light on this very, very important issue. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143223	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143225	Thank you. And also thanks to the government for listening. As far as some of the points we are discussing here today are concerned, I was actually quite pleased to hear that a press conference on Monday, I think, told us how the government would proceed with it. So that part of it is positive What I still think is the concern and the joint task we should have is the group that does not accept the treatment. It is the case that a lot of people can see for themselves that it is mad, and when they get their verdict, they are included in a course of treatment, and hopefully they will come out as better people. But there's a group that doesn't and doesn't want to. What does the Minister think can be done? What does the Minister think should be done? We ourselves have some suggestions in the Danish People's Party about further medical castration etc., but what does the government rely on in relation to that group?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143335	It is a good and relevant question, and it has been asked so cleverly that it gives me the opportunity to hardly sneak around congratulating the Danish People's Party and the previous government, which is far away from me. No, it is actually the case that, as I said, the previous government, together with the Danish People's Party in 2018, made it possible to set aside funds to identify what treatment services are needed for people with sexual thoughts about children in order to strengthen the efforts that should be made in this area. A consultant study was carried out, which was published in 2019 and which among other things. maps the offers, experiences and opportunities for action that exist. Among the points raised are increased information and better conditions for access to offers, and in fact, as I said, there are funds left from the financial law pool to be implemented, and they must of course be translated into cooperation with the parties that were in government then, and the Danish People's Party, with the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143439	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143441	It's exciting, that is, how you can manage some funds and what you can do with this group, but the question is, is it enough? The question, then, is whether there is no need for coercion in relation to that group in relation to medical castration, because we all know that, after having received their judgment, there are some who commit new crimes; there are new abuses. This is really the group that we are focusing on with this part of the proposal. So will the government help us make demands, that you undergo medical castrations, of course, after a medical assessment in court?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143525	What will be our first grasp in this context will be to ensure that we have punishments for sexual abuse against children, that is, in cases where there is no rape, but where there are other forms of sexual abuse. And there's our proposal that we put 50 percent. On top of the penalty.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143548	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then we start with the rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143612	Thank you. Here too, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for remaining an active partner in combating and combating child abuse. That is very, very important. And then, as the Minister for Justice also mentioned, it is a very good opportunity to welcome the overall package of initiatives against sexual abuse on children presented by the government on Monday; something that I think is really, really good and which, of course, comes around many of the themes that we have at least spent the last few years discussing. Like the Minister of Justice, he has reviewed the various initiatives, so I will focus on just a few of them. I have actually had the pleasure of working with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. This was one of the first cases I received when I was elected to the Danish Parliament and became the legal rapporteur here a few years ago: this ban on child sex dolls, which one might wonder about was not illegal, but which we want to do illegally with what we have presented. After all, this is a matter that we have been cultivating for several years with the Danish People's Party, that is to say to get a ban. So this is just one example of the fact that there are several of the initiatives that are also at the heart of the Danish People's Party. And that is why it is a very good indication that the fight against those who violate and commit abuses against children and young people is absolutely essential. There are people who have pedophile thoughts. Fortunately, the vast majority of people also have the normal stop-block, which means that they could not really live out those thoughts. They need help. Therefore, it is also good to do more in terms of advice and help to those who have such thoughts. And then, unfortunately, there are some who do not have that block, and there you have to act extremely hard. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate once again. Thank you for your good cooperation on many of those initiatives, and I am also looking forward to the package that we have put forward, that we will have some good legal treatment where we can get it through together. However, we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here in its entirety, also for the reasons mentioned by the Minister of Justice. Then I have promised to welcome from the SF and say that they cannot support the proposal either. Now I don't know if you can check your phone, but I'll just see if I can say hello from the Radicals and the Conservatives, but it doesn't look like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143856	Thank you. There is just one brief comment to be made to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143901	Thank you for that, and thank you for the broad support for the proposal. What I saw was missing in the government proposal is the part that concerns the offender, that is to say the offender, who has to be treated in order not to get out and create new crime. I would like to ask Mr. Jeppe Bruus in a bit the same thing that I tried to get the Minister of Justice to answer: Will the Social Democrats be involved in a system where medical castration is forced to be part of it, that is to say, to subject those who do not want treatment, those who do not want to face it, medical castration when they come in, to avoid them coming out again and doing new attacks?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521143944	It's a very, very powerful instrument. One might say that there are at least some things we can do before we get there. Among other things: in writing. - (FR) One could, in fact, spend the money that has been set aside in the previous government and that it has in fact been a little difficult to locate, to do better treatment and advice, etc. We have, of course, been discussing medical castration in several areas over time, and I have to say that I am somewhat sceptical as to whether this is the kind of instrument that should be pulled out of the box.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144015	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144016	I think that is a pity, and I do not really care what previous governments have done. What I care about is the child's best interests, that is, helping those children not to be subjected to abuse. That is what should be our focus. Then the government is carrying out some initiatives, and that is very good, but I am left with the impression that the group of invaders who get the verdict and refuse to face the fact that they are ill is not really going to get their hands on the initiative that has come from the government. I'd like to hear what you're gonna do. What does Mr. Jeppe Bruus so you'll do if you don't want to be part of the medical castration of that group?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144058-2	There are several things we have already done. Among other things: We have, of course, introduced the possibility of granting a residence ban to persons who commit sexual abuse after the Beder case and who then receive a ban on residence in places where there are children, and of course also being placed at the risk of the police being able to keep track of what they are doing. Then there's this proposal where we take the passport from people etc. So it is not true that we do not also have tough initiatives in the box.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144132	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no more brief comments. Then the next rapporteur is from the Left. Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144151	Thank you for that and thank you for presenting this motion for a resolution. Sexual abuse of children is one of the most serious crimes that can be committed, and we in the Left agree that it must be punished more severely than it is today. We also need to do more to prevent this happening. That is why we in the Left are also very pleased that the government has now presented their proposals on how to strengthen our efforts, because it is in everyone's interest that we have our children protected as best we can from sexual abuse and abuse. I don't think there can be two opinions about that in this room. I have no doubt, therefore, that when he calls for the forthcoming discussions, the Minister is ready to listen to both the initiatives of the proposers, but also others who may bring good and relevant proposals to the table. Because we need to discuss the solutions in this area. On the whole, we welcome a large part of the government's proposals, particularly those relating to tightening the penalties for sexual abuse and that persons under the age of 15 should not be able to consent to sex with an adult. But there are also elements in which we need more clarity about what exactly is being proposed, among other things. the interpretation of the exit ban. We look forward to that being clarified on occasion. There are also elements in the proposals made by the Danish People's Party that we would like to discuss, but also ask more into. But overall, I can say that we support the call for discussion, and that is why we also choose to vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal, without, of course, one by one going in and saying here today that we support all the proposals. However, we think it is important that we should be called to debate as soon as possible, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144344	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, sir. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144443	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the proposal to strengthen efforts to reduce paedophilia. Some of the worst crimes you can commit are child abuse. I can hardly think of anything more unpleasant than committing such serious abuse against children who may have sexual content. That is why I welcome the fact that this is something that all the parties in the Folketing are keenly interested in and would like to do something about. That is why, at the beginning of the week, we were able to see that the government came up with a proposal, and the Radical Left supports several of the things that have been mentioned here, in particular the proposal to consider tightening up the penalties for sexual abuse, which is not outright sexual intercourse, but which relates to another strong intervention in the personal intimacy between an adult and a child. It is very important to focus on that. One can discuss whether the stairway today is too steep, i.e. that there may be too much distance between the wrongdoing committed when it is a matter of sexual intercourse or if it is other than sexual intercourse. So there are many good ideas in the government's proposals and I note that several support parties, including the Radical Left, could support more ideas. That is why I am glad to see in this motion for a resolution that the Danish People's Party now wants to make a stronger effort to reduce paedophilia. However, in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, I miss the fact that there are some initiatives relating to, among other things, one of them. what's going on with grooming, that is, this trust-building phase where an adult makes contact with a child on social media. It is, of course, an essential part of preventing these terrible violations against children that we also have grooming and other digital interventions. I am very sorry that the Danish People's Party does not share the ambition that they should join. In addition, there are some proposals for medical castration, etc. that the Radical Left cannot support. So, although we share the intention to strengthen efforts to reduce paedophilia, we find it unambitious that there is no grooming content in this motion for a resolution, and we think there are some of the proposals that are not so appropriate, including medical castration. But I am glad that we in the Folketing agree that this is an effort that must be prioritised. There are no two opinions on how terrible it is to commit child abuse, and I think we should stick to this point too. No one wants this more than anyone else. So, on this basis, the Radical Left is voting against this motion for a resolution, and I should like to welcome it from the Enhedslisten and say that the same applies to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144755	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144757	Sir. Kristian Hegaard is quite right in saying that nothing has been written about grooming and the fight against it and criminalising it, but I would just like to say that the Danish People's Party is in complete agreement with the Radicals if that is what the Radicals think, and I think it is ■ that we should criminalise grooming, i.e. this with trying to make contact with minors and pretending to be others etc. etc. as we know it from various television broadcasts. So I think we are in complete agreement. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Radicals something. Speaking of what we need to do in this area, what do you radicals think of medical castration? I understand you are against this, but what do you think should happen to those people who refuse to face their illness and refuse treatment while they are in prison for their crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144858	I am glad if the Danish People's Party supports the Radicals' proposal on grooming, and since the Danish People's Party has not proposed it in this motion for a resolution, I am glad if it is part of the development of today's debate that it is generally something that we think we should address. Moreover, it is also quite clear that the Radical Left, among others, has a role to play. I can fully confirm that, and that is why we must take action with other preventive measures. The Radical Left is very concerned about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144932	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521144933	Yes, we also think that preventive action is a good thing, and in our resolution many words have been written about it, and we also have proposals for initiatives. However, it remains to be seen that we have a group and some of them commit new crimes when they are finished in prison who refuse to face up to the fact that they have a problem, and that group then refuses treatment. Then the question to the Radicals is: I do not really think it is an answer, but I would like to ask once more what the Radicals want to do about it if you do not want to be involved in medical castration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521145010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521145010-2	We don't think medical castration is the way forward. We believe that a multidisciplinary approach is needed in cooperation with the citizen concerned, because what is so extremely important is that the right treatment afterward is what means that the next child will not be subjected to an attack. And preventing an attack on just one child will really be valuable to our society, because we are all interested in caring for our children so that they have a safe childhood without any abuse of any kind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521145046	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Mads Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521145106	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for a very fine proposal. It would almost be thought that the Minister and Mr. Peter Skaarup so continuously writes in the same word file, for there was certainly some overlap in relation to the play that the minister came with, but it is only positive. Making life miserable for people who commit sexual offences against young children must be one of the best things about being a legal rapporteur. At least I think so. I think that the proposal from the Danish People's Party contains a great many good elements, as well as the initiative of the government and the Minister. We ourselves, as a party that has last held the ministerial post, have always done what we could to make it harder to be sexually offended by young children. Harder penalties, increased treatment in prisons and enhanced supervision of release are some of the elements for which we ourselves have been drumming. This kind of thing talks right into this kind of tightening up. Like several others, we're a little bit concerned about this medical castration thing and see it as an absolute last resort if it's going to be used. We can support the proposal and enter into further discussions, and we look forward, of course, to an exciting autumn with a lot of exciting legislative proposals from the Minister. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521145217	Thank you. There is no brief comment to Mr. Hans Andersen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521145235	Thank you. Unfortunately, our normal legal rapporteur is at a funeral in Aalborg, so I have just promised to give the proposal a few words. New citizens can support the proposal. I do not share the view of the Radicals that this resolution is unambitious. I have read a number of motions for resolutions, and here it is very well described what the authors of the motion for a resolution actually want with it. It is often that it is not described in a resolution, so I actually think this is very ambitious. Then there may be elements where we may see some other nuances in it, but I will let my rapporteur explain that. On the whole, we see a great many positive elements in this, and we hope that it will be included in those negotiations. This is a suggestion that there should be negotiations. We think this is absolutely a good idea, so we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521145318	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. The next one is sir. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521145338	Thank you. It is true that there is a great deal of overlap between what the government is saying and what is stated here in a very well-worked motion for a resolution. I'm gonna share sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen's words. It is not often that we see resolutions that are actually as concrete as they are here. It doesn't matter that there's overlap in the different parts... I'm just waiting for Mr. Knox to come in. Peter Skaarup has time, because that is his proposal because it just shows that we should be able to gather together for a joint effort. I am quite sure we can and do. Politics is, after all, the opposite of what most people think is about as many as possible stealing your own ideas. That is the prerequisite for things to come into being. So it's quite fine. It is also not one for one that we will be able to support all the concrete things mentioned in the resolution, but overall we think it is actually good and well worked out, and we also think that the call for negotiations in itself is so heavy that we would like to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521145504	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521145534	Thank you to the Folketing for a fine reception of this proposal in general. And I have to say that I was very pleasantly surprised when, I think it was at the weekend, I heard that the government was also prepared to support at least parts of this proposal and even held a press conference on Monday, which told about all the good things that you want to introduce. Of course, you can choose to be the disgruntled one, but I think it's soon weekend and Pentecostal that we should be happy with everything we can get through with. So if, with this proposal, we have exerted some moderate pressure on the government, it is only positive, and then we can be pleased that hopefully in the next Assembly, I understand, we will see a proposal from the government that we can then implement, but very much like with a debate. For as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and several others were talking about this, and if we do that, we think we've made a great deal of this proposal ourselves and also been a little creative. Because it is really important that we help those children who may potentially be exposed to crime, because there are paedophiles who abuse them sexually, but can also do so several times if we do not put in the right way. It has to be said that sexual abuse against children is one of the worst crimes one can possibly imagine, because they are defenceless children who are subjected to abuse and something they cannot and have no opportunity to combat, either physically or mentally. We know that in so many cases these attacks are pursuing children involved for the rest of their lives. We've seen one story after another. I remember, for example. Lisbeth Zornig Andersen, who tells what she has been exposed to as a very small person and who has been tormenting her since then, and there are many others who have been exposed to the same thing. It is typical of women, but in some cases it is also men who are subjected to abuse while they are very small. It is therefore incredibly important that we, as a society, take very effective and thorough action to prevent children from being subjected to sexual abuse of any kind. As we see the efforts now, although a tremendous effort is being made by good forces around both our health system and our prisons, there is still room for improvement. There are flawed things. At least we have seen that when we look around. This means, of course, that when in the processing system and in the prison system and in all other places there is a lack of resources, there is a lack of tools, we are actually giving the paedophiles too much influence on their own development, for example. by avoiding treatment and avoiding facing up to the fact that they are ill and need help. Then there are some arguments from the world of treatment, and we are also a little concerned about this in the motion for a resolution, which says that we cannot treat people and people who do not agree to it themselves. That may be true, but we must also ensure as a society, when there are some vulnerable children, that we have the certainty that the control of paedophiles is so significant that we cannot continue to have their abuse, and that way we can force them to be treated. We can ensure that these ill tendencies are combated by treating, intervening and preventing. Unfortunately, when we look at the situation now, we see all too often that new abuses are already committed when they are released, and that is quite simply because these paedophile tendencies are still intact and untreated when they get out of prison. It is important that, as a society, at least in the case of paedophiles who have to leave prison at one time or another, we ensure that we do not let go of them after their release, and that is one of the things we are talking about in that resolution. Every time there are new children who fall victim to these sick people, it's a disaster for the children they suffer. It's a disaster for the family involved. It's a disaster for relatives. It is a disaster for society, with all the costs that society incurs both economically, but not least for healing, which it is very difficult to overcome. So the paedophiles are sick and the sick must be treated, and that is why it is a central theme and element of the proposal that any form of sexual abuse should result in treatment, because if we do not, we as a society will fail. Then there is often talk of the concept of punishment and whether it works. We've talked about that a lot in here at Christiansborg. Punishment is not always ideal, but it is the tool we can use. And there, in relation to paedophiles, we think that punishment is an extremely important element in this. The punishment is not just a question of preventive action against the convicted person; it must also serve as a response to the fact that justice is being served, so that citizens can see that there is meaning in our legal system. We should not take matters into our own hands, there is someone, and it is society that ensures that the punishment is carried out. Then it is also important to mark that paedophiles have violated a basic limit to behavior in our society, and that is important for the sense of justice, as I said. With regard to those who have a different sexual character, it is incredibly important that there should be more punishment, and the government is also proposing this in their proposals, because much attention is focused on other sexual abuse than the most mentioned which children are subjected to, but unfortunately it is the case that there are many different abuses, and that is why we think it is good that the government is repairing the part that is put up in the government's proposal. But it is so important that there is also treatment, and when you increase the penalty by 50%, we would like it to be 100%. or more, because we think that what is happening is so disgusting, we think it is just as good that we can take the step fully and increase the penalty at all by 100 per cent. for all sexual abuse against children, because we must do everything we can to ensure that there is no new abuse, and that gives us an opportunity when you are in prison for exactly the same treatment, and that is also one of the things we are talking about here. So the longer you sit in prison, the greater the opportunity for you to be treated out of the fact that you have the disease that paedophilia is. And then there's the side effect that you can't do new assaults while you're in prison. So with this proposal, we hope that the whole parliament will help to ensure that on this day, and when the government's proposal is adopted, we take a major and important step on the part of the Danish Parliament to combat child abuse. And we agree that it is both a comprehensive and certain for some very intrusive proposals when we talk about medical castration of those who are not being treated today, but we nevertheless believe it is necessary if otherwise the doctor thinks it is right. At the same time, however, we must also say that any abuse of children is a problematic, violent, cross-border phenomenon that we know in our society, and there are a great many, and there are more than we think who have traumas for the rest of their lives because of what they have been subjected to as children. So perhaps with the in mind that we must weigh the rights of the paedophiles less than the children we absolutely want to protect, we must just say that the paedophiles must pay the price for us as a society to take care of our children. I would also like to thank you for your good treatment, as I have said, by the Danish Parliament in relation to this proposal. I have actually seen that no one speaks very much against this proposal. There are some who have thought that there should be something more, among other things. Mr. Kristian Hegaard, the criminalisation of grooming, and that would be like running in an open door, because it might as well have been a point in this proposal too. So thank you for the nice reception. I hope that something will happen soon, and I hope that the government will give this priority so that we get a proposal that will be put into practice and that will work. So thank you for that. And good Pentecost!
ParlaMint-DK_20210521150512	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There are no brief comments As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521150527	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 25 May 2021. Here you go to the author of the questions, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. That is the reason for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521150614	After all, the social media are filling more and more in the political debate, but also in the general interaction between people. This brings very good results, but it also creates some challenges, among others. When people get their legitimate posts and contributions to the debate removed, and of course to an even greater extent, when entire political profiles are completely removed, as we saw with former US President Donald Trump, among others. That is why we would like to have a fundamental debate here in the Danish Parliament on how we can approach this both as a country and, of course, as part of the international community. On the one hand, these are private companies. In other words, as long as you act within the framework of the law, you can do whatever you want to optimize your earnings. It is quite natural, and that is what we in general are animating and encouraging companies to do, so that they can pay some taxes in the treasury and create some jobs. But on the other hand, there are no companies in the traditional sense when we talk about Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and other very, very large international mastodons, which one has to say gradually, what is equivalent to a dominant position at least in relation to the free exchange of views. That is why we in the Danish People's Party believe that we should deal with the rules that apply to competition law, where we have to deal with companies that have a dominant position, and say that there must then also be specific guidelines, that there must then be a particularly high code that allows people to speak and not, of course, on an unreasonable and sometimes quite random basis. Of course there must be limits. In a civilised society, there is a need to set limits, including for freedom of expression if you call for violence, terrorism or whatever it may be. Of course there has to be. I'm gonna have to fight that hard. Nor do we rule out the possibility that in some situations there may be a need to close accounts completely. That's not what this is about. Those involved are those who move within the legitimate and, I would say, necessary debate and who are still subject to these sanctions. How we deal with it is what we look forward to hearing the government's bid for, and lure me, if not also we in the opposition have a few thoughts to offer. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521150857	Thank you for the explanatory statement of the question to Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt. Then it is the Minister of Justice to answer the question. Morten Messerschmidt Aren't you still immune?). Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521150925	That is quite right, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt stated that I am still immune and therefore cannot be infected but thanks for the despriting anyway. This is an interesting subject. We have had it on the agenda sometimes before, and there are really many exciting aspects of it. It is also super complex because there is no doubt that there is a strong need to focus on social media, and God knows that the Internet has many, many good qualities, right? You can look for knowledge there, everyone can participate etc. Once upon a time, there was a former Danish Prime Minister... I shouldn't say who got a career in Brussels afterwards... and then hired a relatively young employee. After all, he had been prime minister for a long time. One day he comes in and tells the young employee to try the Internet. You can find everything there, and it's free. It just shows that the opportunity to retrieve information that's huge. But if we were to do it about • and I know you can't do it again, then it's a conceptual construction that I'm out in and we decided politically that we'd construct those social media, we'd say that the market shouldn't control it. This is an area so important that we will say the good old socialist doctrine: the market is a lousy master, but a good servant. Here we have left the market to be master, which is why things have gone wrong. Why has it gone wrong? That is because the market has no soul; the market has no ethics, the market has no morality, and therefore the market does not care. That is why we need to go in politically and get to grips with it. Well, then, what are some areas we need to get hold of, for example.? There may be some illegal content on the Internet. This is gradually being agreed that there is a need to remove, for example. things that compromise the security of the state. I think everyone agrees on that. But as recently as the debate we had here at the point before, i.e. about grooming on the web or sextortion or sugardating, some of the things that are up in the air now show. How are we gonna deal with this? You can choose anything else. Then there is something that lies between what is illegal, which may be illegal and which may be legal • how do we deal with it, for example. Hateful speech? Now, sir. Kristian Hegaard here is not. I am sure he is the rapporteur on the proposal and will come through the door shortly. I think we have all looked with admiration and consternation at how Mr. Kristian Hegaard is being degraded because of his online participation because of his interaction on social media. Should something be done about it? Yeah, I guess that's what it's gonna have to do to some extent. I guess we also need to find out how we handle this hate speech, because even if the starting point is that when what is online is legal, it should be allowed to be there, because it is very much in line with freedom of expression. We are now in a place where people can choose not to use their freedom of expression because they are hanged out because they are being harassed because they are being persecuted because they are called the worst things. After all, there are stories about ordinary people, but also about politicians who refrain from taking part in debates on the Internet because it is done in the way it does. Yesterday we had another matter which also gives cause for reflection. It is not illegal at the moment to commit identity theft... it is not illegal to take someone else's identity and create a facebook profile. It's illegal if you use it for example. to commit fraud or other crimes, but in itself it is not illegal. Is that supposed to be illegal? Yes, it is. I think that, in my best memory, the whole parliament agreed yesterday, namely that we should then get into the penal code, that identity theft is illegal, even if it is not necessarily linked to other crimes. In this situation, there was, of course, the quite weird discussion which I have actually hung a little by the side when the New Citizens' rapporteur was on the platform and described a site that I have never visited or know called the Secret New Citizens' Party. And as supposedly I don't know anything about it, because I didn't visit the material... contained untrue material, but where photos had been taken from Instagram, which had supposedly been placed there by people from another party here in the Danish Parliament. It was, of course, a rather weird description that Mrs Pernille Vermund gave yesterday, at least if it stands up to believers. Is that supposed to be stopped? Is that where we should say: Ah, it is not going to go, is it not? I think so, but you can have different views on that. Finally, there is another element of it, namely whether you are entitled to have your material on the Internet. Well, I know that censorship under the Constitution only takes place if there is intervention by the authorities. But as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt said at the outset: here we are dealing with some players who are so large and who can fill up so much on the market that one has to consider whether they are in fact a place where they exercise censorship. The only thing that is significantly worse than a public monopoly is a private monopoly. Why is that? That is because we lack the political direction of it. That is why we need to take back power and go into that room and insist on political governance. I know it is argued that there is no right to be able to make statements on other media. You can't call one of the newspapers. Yes, you can try, you don't get anything out of it if you think it's too bad that you haven't got your reading with it, but you don't have a claim to it, and everyone accepts it. But should we also accept that we do not have the right to have our things on social media? Yeah, I guess you have to do that to some extent. So this is really a difficult discussion that arises from this question. I think, to answer the question put by the question, that social media should meet more with demands that reflect the importance they have in society today and that it should not be left to private individuals to define the limits of freedom of expression by blocking or deleting a lot of content on their platforms. I think we need to move into regulation of this. That's why we need to get rid of it. However, there are problems and I believe that the dilemmas I have outlined do not show any easy or quick solutions. Nevertheless, it is the Government's ambition that before the summer holidays this year, we will present a proposal on social media and the regulation that will take place. But God knows it's not easy. I think that we will then have a long debate, talk and understanding about what regulation should take place. Because I think we should be very lucky if we hit the closet in the first blow. So this is exciting and complex and interesting. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521151751	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his reply. Now there is one brief comment from the rapporteurs, and the first one to ask for it is Mr Beazley. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521151802	Thank you for that, and thank you for a very committed speech from the Minister of Justice, who says many right things and raises many dilemmas. Some of them we can discuss, because the comparison with newspapers and then sitting so hard on the infrastructure may not be possible at the end of the day. But what I can only wonder when you are so committed to it and I also understand that the Minister for Culture is very committed, at least so committed, that on 24 January 2020 she said that it is now time for us to take care of this as politicians and look into this whole world, is that since then we have not heard anything. We haven't heard from the government. Nothing's coming. Media negotiations have not been convened and no media action has been taken. I asked the Prime Minister 14 days ago how the media talks are going. We're not getting an answer. But since it's such an important subject, sir. Minister of Justice, couldn't the government get their hands off the thighs and get a job done?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521151927	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521151928	As long as it's our own thighs we've got our hands on, I guess it even goes. No, joke aside. Sorry, President! To answer quite frankly, I simply do not know what the state of play is in the media negotiations, and that is not my concern either. And I think I indicated that in relation to the traditional media you cannot make the comparison one into one, of course you cannot, because the structure is so different. It was, in fact, just an illustration that the expectation that we have of the traditional media that they can choose and choose how to speak cannot be transferred to one to the new social media.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521152020	In this round, there's only one brief comment, sir. Jens Rohde. It's only in the next round, we go back to the perfectly normal rules. So the next one is mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521152030	Thank you for that and for the at least preliminary answer to the question. Now the Minister of Justice mentioned, I think, sir. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen. There is also another former Social Democratic Prime Minister, who can be said to be in some connection with Facebook, namely Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, and so I would like to know whether the Minister for Justice can be a little more specific about what is really going on in the government, about how to regulate a media such as Facebook. Is it, for example, by having Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt appointed, who then takes something that I do not assume is an instruction from the Danish government, but which is nevertheless thoughts and input etc., or can we do something legislative, so that people do not have to sit 30 days in prison for completely legitimate views in a debate on Facebook, as it is described, and you cannot enter your account?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521152131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521152131-2	I believe that what is referred to here is Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt's place in Facebook's Supervisory Board. As I understand it, but again I'm not the world champion of it, it's a piece of advice that Facebook has made himself. It may, of course, be sensible and good to carry out self-monitoring, but I think that we must see here that there is also a need for legislation to ensure that the framework is as they should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521152201	Thank you. Then there's no more short remarks in this round. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners. Morten Messerschmidt Isn't that Left?). It's sir. Mr Morten Messerschmidt, rapporteur for the authors of the questions, and the rapporteur for the authors of the questions will therefore be given the floor at the beginning of the debate. Before it was to give a reason for the request... now is Mr. Mr Morten Messerschmidt, rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521152234	Thank you, President. That is the way it is when you are so eager to hear what your colleagues would like to say that you almost give way to them. Thank you for your introductory remarks in a debate that is not entirely unimportant. Well, when you look at the recent parliamentary election campaign, there was quite a lot of it that spawned on the social media... Christoffer Aagaard Melson Fantastic! So this is active parliamentarianism in the real world. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Facebook and Twitter etc. etc. And what I would perhaps like the Minister of Justice to say a little more about in his speech here is where the limit should go. Because we are all now all here in the Folketing, I think, used to listening to common insults. I take that as my basis. And it has its place in the political debate. So where does the limit go? There is much of what, for example, the former US President Donald Trump has said and written, which I completely disagree with. But from there on down to shutting down his access to communication with his very, very large crowd of followers, I think it is very, very far. And is it really the prerogative of a private company to make such inappealable decisions? I think we need an answer to that. And that is why, on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Citizens' and Christian Democrats, I would like to make a proposal for adoption which will hopefully set the Minister's thoughts in motion and hopefully also inspire him to include those parties in the further discussions. And it reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that social media with their huge size and influence form an essential part of our democracy's infrastructure and that the balance between freedom of expression, security and privacy protection on social media is difficult. It must not only be left to private companies to define the limits of freedom of expression, and the Folketing welcomes the government's efforts to address these challenges both nationally and internationally. The parties behind the text of the adoption expect to be involved in this work process prior to the presentation and wish to inter alia: The following themes are considered: 1) how to ensure greater transparency of social platform algorithms so as to ensure transparency as a user of its data and the consequences of its actor. 2) How to ensure freedom of expression in the best possible way, including the possibility of creating an independent entity to control the actions and decisions of social media. 3) How to ensure maximum publicity and clarity in all removal processes. 4) How to ensure the best possible protection of copyright. V 126). Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521152553	Thank you. Proposals for adoption will be included in the further debate. Then the next rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521152615	Thank you. Normally, I start by thanking the Danish People's Party for resolutions and questions, and there is much to thank for, because they have put a great many of them forward. This time I have to say that what we are discussing is essential, but we really have discussed it many times. In fact, I do not really have any figures on the number of motions for resolutions and questions on that subject. Of course, this is part of another branch, that's about censorship, and so on. also on social media. This is very important and, as the Minister of Justice also said, we are on our way with our proposals on how to regulate social media. Will it take into account in detail all the exchange that exists? I don't think it will. This is an area which is growing explosively and which, of course, is filling our everyday lives in both good and bad conditions and, unfortunately, also very bad. We have had a number of debates over the last few years in this Chamber. Why is it, for example, that some people are not allowed to write Tommy Robinson, I think his name is, on Facebook without being excluded, but that politicians are allowed to do something that Facebook himself wrestled with. It seems quite strange that we should have an entitlement to write something as politicians that others should not have the right to write. It's just an example. That is why it is also a complicated area because we are also in touch with the freedom of expression ■ the freedom of expression that we all want to defend and ensure is not restricted, but which is also at the same time, when it is done on private platforms, at the same time at the same time. So it will be difficult and therefore I am also glad that we will soon come up with a proposal so that we can really go a step further and make it concrete and find out how we are making a regulation in Denmark that fits the view that we have, what we should be able to do, and that we do not leave the idea of defining the limits of freedom of expression alone to private companies. So it's an exciting piece of work that I think we all enthusiastically participate in. I also have a text for adoption, which is broadly similar to that adopted by Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Morten Messerschmidt read out, and I think that this is not, I think, a battleground where we stand and beat each other with disagreements, but where we are actually trying to take stock of the developments that are going on and hopefully find solutions together. That's the best way to do it. I would like on behalf of S, SF, RV and EL and I know that at least SF and also Enhedslisten are not able to be here, so I should also like to welcome from them the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that social media with their huge size and influence are an essential part of our democracy's infrastructure, and that the balance between ensuring freedom of expression, security and privacy protection on social media is difficult. However, it must not be left to private companies to define the limits of freedom of expression. The Danish Parliament notes that the government is working for actions that can meet the challenges both at home and internationally, and that the government expects to present a proposal on the regulation of social media in the first half of 2021. The Danish Parliament stresses that social media must meet with demands that reflect the importance they have in society today. V 127).
ParlaMint-DK_20210521152938	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521152942	Thank you. What, then, are the proposals that are expected to be presented here in the first half of 2021? 'Cause it's almost done. I ask the rapporteur again. That is not the responsibility of the rapporteur, but we have waited a long time in the Committee on Culture. It is, of course, the world's most vulnerable prizer, that is, the media game that we are awaiting from the government. So, every six months we hear: it'll be here in a minute, it'll be here by September 2020 at the latest, and that's what's going on. What exactly does the rapporteur and the authors of the motion refer to when they say that there is going to be a proposal? Is this a media issue, is it a very concrete legal issue that is just about social media, or is it just L 205 that the Minister of Culture has put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153038	That's quite a cliffhanger, as Mr. Simpson said. Jens Rohde is building up here. It is not a secret that when we came on the other side of the last election, the government started work both in the area of justice, but also in the area of children and youth in the cultural field, in relation to looking at what we really are dealing with social media and the things that are happening there. Now, as the legal rapporteur, I have the most focus on it. What comes next, and what's in it? I'll leave that to the government and the Minister of Justice to present. However, some of the themes we have discussed, including in this Chamber, have also been about how we deal with the fact that things are being shared and not being removed on social media platforms. How do we work to ensure that there is fairness and fairness to the resources, for example. Facebook uses in Denmark? When you talk to Facebook's representatives, they also say quite openly that there is, of course, a link between regulation and the resources that they and other companies use to comply with the regulation that exists. So here there is a need for regulation, and that is one of the things we are going to present.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153155	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153156	We didn't get that much smarter. When you say that the Danish Parliament takes note of a proposal, I just want to know what it is that you are referring to. Is it the Minister for Culture's L 205, which alone is an implementation of the Copyright Directive and the SatCabII Directive? Is this a global issue in the media field that we should expect and which we have been calling for for a long time? Or is it a court proposal from the Minister of Justice on specifically social media, including freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153242	I understand the impatience, and the good thing about the summer holiday is that it is not very far away. And we have said the first half of 2021. So I'm thinking that Jens Rohde, in relation to his impatience, hopefully soon will be satisfied. I can't stand here and go over what's coming. We have said that there is going to be a proposal, and there is nothing new about that. It is not even about the support parties, because that is something we have discussed along the way. We have been open about the work we have started, both in the area of justice and in the areas of other ministries. And then the rapporteur will have to wait in suspense until the government presents it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153318	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153321	Thank you not least to the rapporteur for answering the question here. I am perhaps a little less interested in the timing, or so am I, but I would like to ask more about the substance, as to how you really think you should regulate it here. I assume, or perhaps I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on the fact that the rapporteur agrees that what has happened to, for example, Donald Trump, whether we think he is fantastic or the exact opposite, is wrong, so that it should be the case that the individual statements are assessed separately and certainly not the sender. Does the rapporteur not agree with that? And what does the rapporteur think can be done to ensure that everyone, whether they are very, very, very much in agreement with or very, very disagree with, despite everything, has equal access to express themselves on these fora?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153417	The problem is, of course, that it is private companies and not state companies, and just one of the fundamental challenges we have here is that we are almost dealing with private monopolies which determine the guidelines and which are not, in that way, subject to anything we can adopt here in the Folketing. And it makes it a little difficult and complicated to find out where the line is between how you act on a private platform and what we have of expectations that we can regulate. Does this mean that we cannot do anything at all here in the Danish National Parliament? No, of course we can, and that is something we are going to look at, but I predict that it will be difficult to find the right balances. For example, we are going to have to do something like this. require Facebook not to exclude a user, that is to say make as a requirement for a private company: you have to get this customer into the store? That is one of the things we have to discuss with each other, and I have not answered. In fact, I think I would like to try to maintain an open mind in relation to where that answer lies. I find it difficult for me to point out exactly how it should be about whether it should be a 'no' to them not excluding Donald Trump, or a 'yes' to them being allowed to do so. But I hope that we can become wiser together and approach how we would like to organise it in a Danish context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153532	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153534	That is why we also hope that the government will accept the invitation from at least the bourgeois opposition to include us before it comes up with its proposal, because it hopes that by talking to each other it will be as qualified as possible. Now the rapporteur mentions this in terms of monopolies and dominant positions. There we have rules in competition law which mean that when you are in that situation, you also have to act in a particularly vigilant way. Could this be something we could also deal with, the rapporteur thinks, in the social media field?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153608	Yes, I certainly wouldn't deny that. Well, I think there's a need to look at how we regulate this. I cannot see through the current legislation with regard to private monopolies and the parallelism with regard to regulating social media platforms. But I think this is only the beginning of a job that we are going to spend quite a long time on over probably quite many years. And I think it's gonna be the case that if you look back at this in 10-15 years, you'll think, "Oh, my gosh, things went really fast, and you've had a hard time keeping up with the legislation."
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153642	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153645	Thank you. I share the view that this is complicated. From the point of view of the new citizens, the concern is that the government and the Social Democrats will come up against the left-wing definitions of freedom of expression, where it is through increased editing and increased control, that is to say, that we are going the way in which we restrict free speech. But could the rapporteur put some words on whether the Social Democratic Party is leaning more towards ensuring that the regulation that is to be made by Facebook is a guarantee of citizens' rights and an opportunity to express themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153731	Well, I can keep a window open there, because you can just say yes to one or yes to the other, but the challenge is that it is full of dilemmas. Because we must guarantee people's right to express themselves, and now we must also guarantee people's right to reproach and demean and everything else or manipulate things, that is, it is difficult. And I would like to give the undertaking that I will be fairly open to how we are going to do this. But the need is there. I mean, it's not gonna happen without swordshots, even compared to what's gonna be hard, where we're gonna have to try to drill out some of these dilemmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153809	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153810	Absolutely, and it takes some long conversations. But we do have rules for, you might say, the physical space for both what is allowed in the field of freedom of expression and what is not allowed, and for libel and claims and all sorts of other things. So you can of course start from what we have in relation to the physical space, and perhaps it should also be transferred to what we then say to companies. And it's quite fair that we say that we do that to all sorts of industries... that if you're going to act on Danish soil, there's some legislation you have to follow. Car dealers and all sorts of others must do so in relation to safety equipment and everything else. Then you can take it as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153848	Well, it is not the case today that there is a difference between what is legal in the physical space and what is legally online there is the same legislation. And that discussion, for example. had the other day, was about identity theft, where it is apparently not illegal to use other people's pictures to make false profiles unless they are used for an illegal purpose. And that is a very good example of something in which we have then said that we must ban it and, of course, which also led to a certain debate in this Chamber, one has to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153914	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521153918	Thank you to the rapporteur for making a fine speech. What I think is a little uncomfortable is like an impatience to move on. Because now there is a vote from among others. The government and some red parties in here, but it doesn't really say anything, and that's like the problem. I remember more than a year ago having had to deal with the problem that, for example, Instagram does not delete images of different kinds that they should have deleted a long time ago, and the Socialists say that there is a need for immediate action, that we now have to do something and that we have to copy Germany, which has this 24-hour rule, and then it has been a year in which nothing has happened. When does Mr. Jeppe Bruus that the government is working seriously on this case so that we get something that works and that comes to the benefit of all the people who are in trouble?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521154018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521154020	That's the difference between this government and the previous one is that when we got there, it was actually one of the first work we started trying to drill out, which solutions you could find that fit in a Danish context. They are now on their way to the surface, and I understand impatience. If that work had been started earlier, of course we would have been doing it earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521154052	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521154053	What I think is important here, and this is generally the case in politics, is that there is agreement between what you say and what you do, and if you say that let us copy Germany, which has invented the deep plate, a 24-hour rule on the deletion of material on Instagram, why not in Denmark? Well, why doesn't the government do that? There is certainly a lot of work to be done on this, and the development goes fast, and there are lots of studies to be done in this, but the Germans have at least made one initiative that works and that the Danish government could have copied a year ago. When do you do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521154117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521154118	Well, that's a little simplistic about how regulation of legislation is. Now, sir. Peter Skaarup is an experienced gentleman in this parliament, so Mr. Peter Skaarup also knows very well about the matter of just taking another piece of legislation from another country and saying that we are just copying one to one, we do not actually even have to consider it, we do not have to work on it, we do not need to ask for any analyses in the Ministry of Justice or elsewhere, and that we are just running with the fact that this is not always the case. But it is actually very rare that this is the case because you have to find out what kind of legislation we have to have in a Danish context that makes sense. This work has been intensively worked on, the work is on its way to the surface, and I am actually looking forward to it being able to discuss it in a rather more concrete and manageable way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521154154	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. After mr. Jeppe Bruus is the next rapporteur from the Left, and that is Mr Bruus. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521154213	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for focusing on a very important topic and starting an important debate. Our everyday life is increasingly playing out on social media, and every day we are exposed to a wide range of postings where it is not always possible to understand how they are regulated. That is why it is important that we discuss the framework for political censorship on the social media that this debate on the question raises. In the Left, we believe that social media have a wide range of positive qualities which have indisputably benefited freedom of expression and information and public debate. However, we also believe that social media, through their dissemination and their market position, have become powerful social actors whose actions affect both democracy and freedom of expression, and that it is therefore necessary for us to have a closer look at the framework and legal regulation. Social media therefore have a responsibility to ensure that illegal content such as child pornography and terrorist videos flourishing on their platforms, for example. gets taken down. For social media, you can set the framework for what content is allowed on their platform, just like a restaurant may have some requirements as to how their guests may or may not behave. As a consumer, you accept the terms when you enter the door, but that is a difficult balance. Because we must not discriminate or exclude people on the basis of their political views, and recent examples have shown that this can be a very difficult balance. We in the Left, as a liberal party, believe that we must work towards very clear and transparent rules in this area so that everyone can understand which players have been excluded from the platforms and why. It is also important to find a balance where platforms do not end up removing too much content for fear of, for example. To be fined. We must combat destructive information and robotised content, as it attacks our democratic processes by misleading citizens. There must be room for all kinds of attitudes, but when there are deliberate attempts at misleading information, which is most often made on the basis of foreign players, the platforms must respond and here they have a responsibility. However, as I said, this is by no means an easy task. A platform such as Facebook risks being in a situation where it may be difficult to assess whether it is illegal content, for example. racist statements. Therefore, there may also be a need for an independent entity to assess the decisions taken by social media that we have put forward to look at in our joint adoption text. Last year, the government launched an inter-ministerial effort with the aim of looking at possible models to regulate social media content in the balance between censorship and freedom of expression. That work has been going on for a long time and it needs to be completed as soon as possible so that we can address the many challenges and grey areas we face today. The Left backs the need for regulation. We also support the fact that the legal position of citizens must be better protected than it is today. However, we need to find out which form of regulation is most optimal. In this case, we need to think very carefully so that future regulation will have the desired effect and not restrict freedom of expression and restrict innovation. None of us will be served by that. The issue of regulation of social media has sharp cuts to freedom of expression. Our freedom of expression is one of the most important fundamental democratic rights, and we must safeguard it. We believe that open debate and transparency are the right way forward. At the same time, we are awaiting the work of future regulation at EU level. Denmark should also rely heavily on it and lean on it, so that we do not have excessively different cross-border guidelines in Europe. As I said, I look forward to discussing this very important issue here in the debate on the question. It is absolutely essential that we protect citizens, including the Internet, and that we find the balance in this debate. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521154618	Thank you. There are no brief comments. But I just want to say that there are a lot of conversations going on in the Parliamentary Chamber, and you can hear that from up here. So, in order not to disturb the rapporteurs on the platform, I would ask that this be done very quietly or in the sidelines. Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521154650	Thank you for the floor and thank you for calling the question debate on this important subject. Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and many other social media and the online universe have become a central part of people's everyday life. And where people are, there is debate. Social media have provided more opportunities to express themselves at virtually all times of the day, and this is happening at all times of the day. Social media have come to stay. It's powerful media. More votes and new voices come to the fore, and freedom of expression is generally in good shape, concluded the Freedom of Movement Commission last year. It has strengthened the public debate, but it has also led to a sometimes disgusting debate of dimensions. That's why you sometimes want to call them the antisocial media. On the one hand, we have freedom of expression, which is the foundation of a democratic right of liberty. On the other hand, we also have illegal speech, threats, illegal calls, digital violations, hate speech against minorities, and there we often see a lack of enforcement so that things are not taken down. But there is nothing more to be done to be illegal, the Radical Left seems, and the Freedom of Freedom Commission thought so in the report they gave last year. At the same time, however, it should not be up to the social media to regulate the public conversation alone. It should therefore be made clear that with the power of social media there is also a responsibility. Last year, Instagram systematically took down a certain government critical meme, as it is called, from the instagram profile dkpolmes. It was an image with a text that can be compared to a satire drawing that is in a newspaper, and it was not a meme that I myself wanted posted or posted in other cases. But to test whether it was also taken down when I put it up, I put it up on my instagram profile, and then it was taken down by Instagram afterwards. It was a meme that, in satirical form, expressed a criticism of the government's handling of the corona situation. And it was a rather harmless picture compared to many other memes or drawings or satire drawings, yet Instagram took it down when I put it up on my instagram profile. This meant, in fact, that in Instagram, at least with that image, we should not criticise the government as a member of parliament, and that is not possible in principle. For the law of the jungle must not rule on social media; it must be Danish and European law when it comes to something as central as public conversation. The question here has a background in the situation that has been blocking Donald Trump on social media, and I do not think there are many opinions about that in the statement that was made, but of course the courts must finally decide that I think one might sense a call for a storm race against Congress. That's not gonna work. After all, no one should be called upon to take over the Folketing and so on. But you might think that he is crazy on the one hand and disagree with Donald Trump on the other, but of course that also gives Donald Trump an opportunity to speak up, just like all other conversations. But there must also be limits to what calls you can and should be able to make. I do not want to go further in this particular case, but just say that it is not possible to just remove such a person from the social media and then believe that he does not speak otherwise, because then it will happen in more closed fora, and is it healthy for the public debate that polarisation will happen elsewhere where you are not aware of it? I may have my doubts about that, but there needs to be more clarity than there is today, so that it is not just social media that the big tech giants can regulate the public debate. Against this background, I would just like to point out once again, as the Socialist rapporteur has said, that the Radical Left naturally supports the text of the adoption in question, and in this connection I should also like to welcome the SF and the Enhedslist in this speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521155136	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Mads Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521155158	Thank you. Thanks to the Danish People's Party for putting this debate on the agenda, you might say. I was in the course of the debate wondering whether I was really lucky that I did not take part in the debate in the past or whether I was really unlucky. I'll let my speech length decide what I've come to. And I would say that just in the last few days, and now it is no secret that I have been a part of the Chamber, we have been discussing issues such as paedophilia, grooming, identity theft, image theft, and these topics all have in common that there is a lot that has to do with social media. Basically, this debate, as several others have also mentioned, is about the perfect balance between freedom of expression, security and, of course, also a personal responsibility and training of our young people to act properly and neatly on social media. A great deal has been said and I am not going to prolong the debate unnecessarily this Friday afternoon. We are backing the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt made earlier. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521155306	Thank you, sir. Mads Andersen. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next one's from New Citizen, and that's Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521155321	The debate on Facebook can sometimes be tough and ruthless, and it can also sometimes cross borders, both across my personal boundaries and sometimes across the boundaries of Danish legislation. Of course it must be punished, but sometimes and in some cases the judge is also Facebook, and where what we in society would otherwise consider to be legal utterances, Facebook judges over, and it is in a courtroom where there is no defender, but where the prosecutor can even be anonymous. There are stories about groups that go in and spammer, know that many go in and report a certain listing, why Facebook's algorithms then go in and automatically take it down without having the opportunity to get it up and without knowing who it is that has acted like that. That's a huge problem. And it may well be that if you belong to the identity-politically correct left, which unfortunately glimpses from their absence in this matter, you may not see it as a problem, but if you belong to the bourgeois part of Denmark and you belong to a part of Denmark, which sneaks up on discriticism and sneaks out to have the nerve to speak against the system and to put an end to the usual political correctness, then you are punished. Then the algorithms go in and then maybe go, we don't know, some Indian robots or some people who sit in a place that we don't even know where is, in and remove things, and you can smoke in Facebook prison. I think I get e-mails every day from people like that. Sometimes it's for posters they've made 3, 4 or 5 years ago, and then it gets removed for no reason, and sometimes people get almost completely removed their profile. We experienced it even in New Citizens, where one of our candidates in the last parliamentary election locked his facebook profile in the middle of a parliamentary election campaign. He had written a foreign word about self-hatred to his own culture in a debate • a completely legitimate word • but he had it removed. Facebook thus, in my opinion, got involved in a legitimate Danish election to parliament. So we need to address this problem. There is a need for democracy not to allow it to be purely the Wild West. And you actually hear the social media asking that the Assembly of the Danish Parliament should take its place and draw up some guidelines on how to act. We do so in many other areas of society. When you as a company want to act on Danish soil, there are a large number of laws that you have to live up to, and we think that should be here too. We also have a fear in New Citizens that if it becomes the left that will define it here, it will not be freedom of expression, but then it will increase censorship. It will be an alliance between some people on whom we cannot put identity, within Facebook and the state power, in other words those with power, the politically correct ones, and we would like to warn against that. So the treatment and regulation that must take place must be in the spirit of guaranteeing freedom of expression for all. We have a duty to do so. And openness and transparency must be ensured in the way social media act. New citizens believe that we need to look at the legislation that we use in the rest of society. We have legislation for lies, for claims and for defamations... everything else we have legislation for. Shouldn't we be adding this, too? But we also have a right to express ourselves in the physical space. Maybe we could run it into social media, too. Should not private companies like Facebook then have some guidelines? Yes. Do we have to settle for what is political expression, and should we allow Facebook not to be forced to have lots of nude images and vulgar images and everything on their platforms? Yeah, we're gonna have to take a look at that, too. There needs to be a balance where we guarantee freedom of expression, but where we also guarantee private ownership of some things about the social media for these companies. So it's a balancing act. We look forward to the debate as we think it is time we finally took. I think we raised it back in autumn 2019 too, so thank you for raising it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521155845	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the Christian Democrats. Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521155909	In fact, when the Minister of Justice gave his speech, I remembered the literary critic Neil Postman, who made such a very interesting composition of George Orwell's novel, which was written in 1949, and Aldous Huxley's famous novel, Fagre's new world from 1932 when people are taking over from the technology. And he writes like this, translated into Danish: "What Orwell feared were the people who would ban books. What Huxley feared was that it would be unnecessary to ban books, since no one would read them. Orwell feared those who would give us access to information. Huxley feared those who would give us so much information that we would become passive and self-absorbed. Orwell feared that the truth would be hidden from us. Huxley feared that the truth would drown in a sea of indifference. Orwell feared that we would become a culture of captivity. Huxley feared that we would become a trivial culture without any thought other than pastime. ▪ See, the question is, have we been caught into this tension field between convenience, imaginary freedom, tribulation and censorship. If you ask Frederik Stjernfelt from Aalborg University, who together with Anne Mette Lauritzen from the University of Copenhagen made an excellent book a few years ago, called "Your lookup has been removed: Techgistants and freedom of speech, and if you ask Shoshana Zuboff, who is a bit such a rockstar in this area and has written the book "The Age of Surveillance Capitalism " The Fight for a Human Future at the New Frontier of Power, then we have been caught in this field of excitement. Frederik Stjernfelt and Anne Mette Lauritzen writes: "In the third wave of the Internet, the user risks the cost of convenience being to give up freedom. This is a major danger to freedom of expression in the broad sense of freedom of information. This is not because certain items are censored • it also happens • but because the user can be led to believe that his or her bubble constitutes the whole of the relevant world. And that's what we're in the middle of. In fact, if you take the trouble to read the two books mentioned, it is not far to find solutions for them. I have personally adopted five of their proposals, which I think are very well suited to, what we are facing and which we can at least demand, and which I also hear from the debate is what is widely embraced by the parties. In KD we have made a media play and there we recommend that tech companies and social platforms be committed by regulatory frameworks to enlightened standards, including in particular for the application of their algorithms. Everyone must be included in the principle of freedom of expression by calling for illegal acts, so that we do not privatise censorship, as several rapporteurs and the Minister have also mentioned. There must be well-educated and properly paid inspectors in Denmark to ensure compliance with the common rules of the game. After all, today it is poorly paid and poorly educated people in India who are watching over what we are talking about here in Denmark. Everyone should be able to see this as an untenable situation, because they have no idea of the scope of freedom of expression under Danish law. Then there must be transparency and clarity in all aspects and phases of the removal processes, so that when a notice or person is removed, there must be transparency in decisions against users affected. And, of course, there must be a review body because we are all users of that infrastructure. And since we are all users of that infrastructure, the kind of interference that Twitter and Facebook can make with an individual, whether it be a president or not, is de facto an interference in freedom of expression. This cannot be compared to whether you can get a letter from the Berlingske Tidende or not because they are on the infrastructure. Finally, copyright must of course be guaranteed, so that this world's greatest art theft, which we have been watching for too many years, cannot continue without the artists also being allowed to be paid for the work they have done and on which others earn money. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521160420	There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521160422	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde for many good considerations here as a representative of the Christian Democrats. Now, sir. Jens Rohde was a representative of, yes, the government's support party such almost until recently, and it could be, sir. Jens Rohde could help us assess why the government is so attached to this case. I mean, we've been waiting for this media show, like Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde also mentioned earlier during the debate here, since I do not know when, and this has been promised time and time again. And nothing's ever gonna happen. Then we have been waiting for an intervention against the tech giants, in particular with regard to deletion rules and also various options to allow them to give them back some money for the huge global turnover they have with very small marginals. Why is it that the government is slowing down? Did Mr. Jens Rohde a bid for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521160522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521160524	I don't think so. I have tried so hard, even in my time in the Radical Left, together with Mr Enhedslisten's. Søren Søndergaard and Mr. Morten Messerskommand to press for these media talks to get under way. As I asked the rapporteur and also the Minister about this, it is a bit because the Minister for Culture addresses the social media himself in relation to the media. And that's why I really thought it was a resort that was over with the Minister of Culture. Now it's actually fine if we break down the silo thinking, and I don't really care who's sitting with what. What is crucial is that we do something about it. So they say: we've had the corona crisis and so on. Yes, but the world does not stand still, and it does not do so in relation to regional and local media, which lose huge advertising revenue to companies that do not pay taxes in Denmark. We also need to do something about this, so we need to attack it very broadly and facetly in relation to these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521160633	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521160633-2	I'll take sir. Jens Rohde's explanation or rather his non-answer as to why the government is slowing down for good goods. It can be said that this is not because the government or the support parties are shining at a huge attendance and activity in connection with a case like this one, and so I would just like to hear again: what could be the reason? Well, to me, we have a government that has completely ignored this area for a long time and which Mr. Jens Rohde's on the subject, the development is booming. Something happens every day, and we may have difficulty following it, even in here at Christiansborg. So what does Mr. Jens Rohde is the reason the government doesn't do anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521160717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521160718	I don't know, but it's just important that we keep pushing, because something has to happen, and our really big problem is that we've all been guilty somewhere somewhere over the 1990s and the 00s have been so technologically enthusiastic that we have forgotten to take the rules that exist in the physical world and have them implemented in the virtual world. After all, it is a failure that we must all acknowledge that we have committed. But it doesn't make it any better that we don't make sure we get out of the holes, so we have to hope that the government does.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521160754	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521160755	Thank you for that and thank you for the insight that the rapporteur brings into this area. This is very inspiring and we think that the rapporteur has a great deal of good thinking. One thing I would just like to say a little more about is this, with the limit of freedom of expression, in other words, that it should not be privatised. After all, we think that a social media, for example. should be allowed to set guidelines on what must be shown by violent images, nude images for that matter or pornographic images, so should be allowed to put some rules of conduct on your social media, if you just treat the customers in the store alike, you might say; e.g. Right-wing people should not be allowed to wear shorts, if left-wing people are not allowed, in order to make an analogy to the real world. How does Jens Rohde feel about the possibility of making some rules of conduct, which may, of course, somewhere also come into conflict with freedom of expression? Should we not be allowed to do so if there is only transparency about it and it is dealt with in a transparent way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521160850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521160851	I believe, from the outset, that the limits of what can be done on social media go by the law. Otherwise, we start to bend them down, and then it will be the private companies themselves who make their own definitions. And where do those who judge it sit, then? That is where we have to come in and make legislation ourselves. When you talk to representatives of the social media, they also say that we have seen this throughout the discussion on the copyright law, i.e. L 205, which the government has finally put forward, after many years in Europe and the European Union have been working on the Copyright Directive: we want to have clear guidelines; we want politicians to define for us where it is. So I think that is actually a responsibility that we must take on, because it is good for everyone. And if there is then a political majority who wants to make a law on some kind of behavior regulation, then you have to do so. I do not think it should be left to private companies who are so hard on infrastructure, because that is where the problem lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161001	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mr Christoffer Aagaard Melson, on a second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161002	I agree that this is a difficult issue, and there are some grey areas, but it may be one of the areas where it is also just to get it out where we need to talk to each other if we are to find a compromise. So, an example might be that there were some who wanted to make a child-friendly social media where you have some other behavior rules in relation to bullying, nude pictures or other. There I think we will get into some problems if we are not allowed to make some rules of conduct there. But this is an exciting debate and we look forward to continuing it with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161035	Well, you can certainly make some rooms. I don't have a problem with that. What I have a problem with is when you sit on the whole infrastructure, and you may then prevent someone from making a room. That's where the problem lies. And no, it's not simple. This is something we have to discuss so much. But in relation to Twitter and Facebook, whose algorithms are controlled after tribulation, hatred, strife and tipping kife, I am surprised that when they suddenly don't think that the one they've made money on for many years, namely a man like President Trump, is appropriate for them more, then throw him out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161124	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161125	Thank you. After all, we heard earlier during the exchange between you and Mr. Jeppe Bruus, how Facebook has set up a council to try to ensure that the decisions are now also right, so to speak, hitting the right line. The former Danish Prime Minister, Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, sits on that council. I just want to know if it's something, sir. Jens Rohde sees it as a step along the right path or the opposite: that in Facebook, within the private media, you reach out and try to get external players in. Or is it really creating a false legitimacy that may not change the big thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161210	I'm inclined to think the latter. On the other hand, what should social media do when politicians come and criticise, but do not tackle legislation and take responsibility? It is fine that we criticise what is happening on social media, but then we must also assume the responsibility of laying down guidelines and democratising the concept of freedom of expression and thereby legitimising both freedom of expression, but also the restrictions on freedom of expression resulting from our legislation. That is our task. Before we face up to that responsibility, I find it difficult to criticise these social media for trying to accommodate us. But basically, it's a system error.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161310	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161310-2	But the big question is what the purpose is. Is it an attempt to accommodate, or is it an attempt to shut us up? Excuse me, Chairman. That's what's gonna be exciting to follow. I just want to know about Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde can be persuaded along with, I think I can speak on behalf of, at least, all the blue parties, to make an alliance to ensure that we not only let ourselves get rid of such a fucking candy, but that we actually also insist that such a thing should happen, as Mr. Jens Rohde says a democratisation of the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161343	It is not for me to motivate the individual companies to do the work and the barn. I'm just saying I can understand what they're doing or why they're doing it. But it does not take our responsibility away from us, and when I say so, it is also a clear statement and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also knows my commitment in this area that we take political responsibility. That's why I'm calling for these moves. That is why, for two years now, I have been calling for the action of the government, and I would like to form any alliance with anyone who will help to push for politicians to finally fulfil the responsibilities that have been given us by the electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161428	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no more brief comments. Then we've reached the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161508	Thank you for a good debate and thank you for some, I think, good reflections from the rapporteurs on the way around. I also think they illustrate that this is not easy and that we really have some difficult dilemmas between freedom of expression, security and privacy, which must be dealt with at the same time. I look forward to further work. I don't think it's gonna get finger-tipsed. I look forward to the government presenting proposals from the two working groups in a short time, and let me just say a little about them, because now we have been asked what this is about. One working group is about illegal content on social media, but also about information and content moderation. The second working group is about initiatives in relation to children and young people, i.e. digital education. These are two extremely important things in this debate, but as can be seen, among other things. Mr. Jens Rohde has said, nor will he catch everything and complete the work. However, these will be important steps. The plan is to present the work and then reach out as widely as possible in the Folketing to find out how we make this regulation. We will certainly have political disagreements along the way, and it is not at all certain that we can all go along with each other, but there is a common awareness of problems, and there is also, I think, a willingness to try to have this founded as widely as possible. In fact, it can be said that we may well be faced with one of those situations, as with some of the other major regulatory areas, where we have succeeded in creating a tradition of regulating it quite broadly in the Parliament of the Parliament of the European Union, police reconciliation, defence reconciliation, the primary school area; some of those important fundamentals of society, where it is good that there is a broad majority that goes together. I think that today's debate has raised some important issues and highlighted some important dilemmas. This is one of the things we are going to relate to, and I am very much looking forward to further work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161749	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161751	You know, I mean, it was 1877, Graham Bell got a patent on the phone. He was allowed to make a telephone company, and then a commission was set up to examine what this would have to do with the future, and the Commission returned and said: it will not matter, because we already have a very well-functioning postal system. Not many years passed before there were both three and four and five telephone companies owned by Graham Bell. It was then later fragmented to prevent this monopoly status, but peace be with it. A new Commission study was then carried out to assess where we were going now, and the Commission returned after 1 year and said that the invention of this telephone would have enormous consequences for the development of society. It had to be assumed that by the year 2000 there would be at least one telephone in each city. I am mentioning this story here because I would like to ask the Minister for Justice how he sees the future if we do not intervene.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521161943	In fact, I think I can answer a little anecdotal too. So this is a story I have heard, and I have to say that I have not checked it myself, but history will know that when the car began to gain ground in Danish society, the very same thing that we are dealing with today dealt with a suggestion that in front of every car there should be a man with a bell, so that one was sure that one was not run over by this dangerous car, which is then driven behind the man. Both examples may in fact illustrate our inadequacy in terms of being able to see the extent of these major changes in our society, where this is one of them. However, as I said at the outset, I believe that we have all come to the realization that there is simply a market here which needs to be regulated, and that is the regulation we need to address. I think we're gonna do it a lot of times, and I think we're gonna do it several times. But I hope that we can follow it across the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521162048	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday, 25 May 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210521162135	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 25 May 2021, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. Good Pentecost.
