ParlaMint-DK_20211119095957	The meeting is open. For the agenda of the Folketing today, Friday 19 November, there is the following review: Preben Bang Henriksen (V) and Morten Dahlin (V): Motion for a resolution No. B 46 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility of proceedings for creditors in respect of pensions). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20211119100028	If any of you do not object to the promotion of this request, I consider the consent of the Things as granted. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119100052	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119100115	Thank you. I am here as a substitute for our legal rapporteur, and the reason why we are standing here is, of course, that this year we are going to have the recurring debate on the Europol agreement, which is a consequence of the people's vote against turning the reservation of law into an opt-in system in December 2015. It is almost six years since that decision was taken and then a cooperation agreement was negotiated with Europol. This is, of course, an important alternative, although we in the Socialist Group feel that it would have been better to be a full member. In connection with that agreement, it was also decided that the Folketing should review it every year and get a statement from the Ministry of Justice on how the cooperation is going, and that is why we are standing here today. The report contains a number of topics and challenges that are known to be material, but there is also a little new with, among other things. because last year the Commission made an evaluation of the cooperation between Denmark and Europol. The Commission concludes, among other things, that the Europol agreement has reduced the negative effects of Denmark's withdrawal from Europol, and we should of course be pleased about that. It is also clear from this year's report that it remains the opinion of the National Police that cooperation with Europol has a great operational value for the Danish police, and cooperation with Europol works well within the framework provided by the Europol Agreement. We can be satisfied with that too, because it shows that the agreement works and that Denmark is well off in some areas. Unfortunately, there are also a number of consequences which arise from the fact that, as a third country, we do not have the same rights as Members. These are known consequences, and they have been discussed here from the platform and here in the Chamber before, but nevertheless we must keep up with developments. In particular, it is about access to the various databases and registers in Europol. The Danish police have no direct access to the Europol intelligence database, the EIS. The search process is therefore more rigid and time consuming for Danish police than it is for fully-fledged Member States. Nor does the Danish police have access to the new form of the app, namely QUEST, which is a tool that now provides data access in 11 Member States, for example when police officers are on patrol. As can be seen from the report, it is the opinion of the National Police that the lack of access to QUEST will imply what they call a significant restriction on the ability of Danish police to combat cross-border crime compared to police capabilities in the other EU countries. And then the Danish police analysis platform, POL-INTEL, cannot be integrated with the EIS system either. Denmark cannot propose which persons associated with organised crime should constitute so-called high value targets for Europol and what should be the subject of what is called an operational task force. As something new in this year's report, the National Police also points out that the Danish police will not be able to carry out indirect searches in Europol's analysis database, the EIS, a system that contains information on organised crime, which is reported for the purposes of operational analysis today. And, of course, it's too bad we don't have that access. Overall, however, this statement shows that the agreement is working. Overall, Danish police benefit from cooperation when it comes to combating cross-border crime. However, the statement also shows that there are still consequences of being a third country in relation to Europol cooperation, in that there are many things that the Danish police would like to do, but they cannot. We cannot change that today, and I know that the police are doing everything they can to get the best out of the agreement within the framework that has now been established. However, cross-border crime is developing, which is why, of course, Europol will also develop and new solutions will be created. As the statement shows, the Commission has also proposed amendments to the Europol Regulation to strengthen Europol's mandate. And that is why discussions such as the annual discussion we have in the Danish Parliament today are, of course, important for Denmark, and it continued to focus on the relationship and cooperation with Europol. We must ensure that the Danish police have the best possible conditions for combating serious cross-border crime. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119100546	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119100551	Thank you. Now I have respect for the fact that sir... Rasmus Stoklund is not the rapporteur for this area, so I will not go into the specific details. But I would just like to ask: if you really think that this puts a limit on the fight against crime in Denmark, then a limit beyond any difficulty, that we have to pay a little bit of money and that kind of thing, if you really think this is a problem for Danish citizens in the form of solving crime, why not take a referendum? If this is so serious, what is the reason why you don't go to the people it may be that you have to hide those posters about the paedophiles who got free play, away and do something else and take that referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119100647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119100648	Well, there has been a referendum a relatively short time ago, six years ago, among other things. this question, and the people expressed their opinion on that matter. For the time being, the conclusion of the statement we have received is that cooperation works well within the framework that is now in place. There are some problems, there are some things that make it more difficult for the police in their day-to-day work, and it is also clear from the information that it is difficult to quantify exactly what it is. But you can imagine what it's like to be a Danish police patrol, for example. in a border area which could immediately have had access to QUEST and had broken up if they met someone they thought had a suspicious behavior, but now cannot do so and must go through a number of different links if they call outside normal office hours, and there I think it is perfectly obvious that we are missing out on getting some caught up in the net. I mean, if the masks are too big, some cod get through, and that's what we're risking as a result of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119100753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119100754	This was one of the specific areas that I would have asked you about, because it might also be possible to ask some questions about legal certainty and the fight against crime in the wisdom that all hundreds of thousands of police officers throughout the EU area and outside have access to clarify whether a car is wanted or, for example, so that a criminal who wants to drive a car up to Denmark with drugs can know in advance whether that car is wanted or not. But okay, I don't want to go into the specific questions, since Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is not the rapporteur for this. But I just want to ask, is that, sir? Rasmus Stoklund says that if it has noticeable consequences for the Danish people, will a referendum be held and that, as long as you do not do so, this agreement does not really have any significant consequences for the fight against crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119100851	No, what I'm saying is that I've read this statement, and from it it appears, and I can find the quote again... that in addition to the fact that the National Police consider that the cooperation that exists actually works quite well, means, for example, that... not to have access to QUEST a significant restriction on the ability of Danish police to combat cross-border crime compared with the police in the other EU countries. Well, it's too bad we're putting that tape on ourselves when we could have been part of this cooperation. That is what I am saying, and I think it is a pity that some people could have been caught now, because it is too cumbersome, and because if you have to make contact outside normal office hours, it is a rather cumbersome procedure to start. Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. I welcome from the SF, which had to leave the negotiations, and say that they are satisfied with the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119100942	Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119100945	The rapporteur began by saying that we now have the annual debate, and it is true that we have it here in the Assembly, but I would like the Social Democrats to have helped to raise an ongoing debate on the consequences of the fact that we said no to abolishing the reservation because, as the rapporteur himself said, it has operational consequences, and I do not think that we often hear the Social Democrats draw attention to this in the public debate. It may well be that we have had a referendum relatively recently, but if a debate was started on the consequences of it, out there in the public and had them on that debate, it would also be easier to have a roadmap for a new referendum. What are the rapporteur's thoughts on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119101030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119101031	Now that we have such a more fundamental discussion of that part of it, I agree that the whole issue of international cooperation and cooperation in the European Union, now cooperation on Europol, but international cooperation in general may not be so much a feature of public debate. It is true that this might be relevant, because there are sometimes some conclusions that might be made quickly, where, for example, if there is a judgment or a decision in an international body that is not satisfied with, in some circles, it is quick to conclude that international cooperation is no good at all. There I think the rapporteur and I agree that it is the law of the jungle that will soon prevail if small countries leave international cooperation, and that is why I believe it is in our interest to be a committed part of international cooperation. Denmark, for example, earns a lot of money from being part of EU cooperation in general: on exports, on the free market, on freedom of movement, etc. and so on, and it would have been good in the fight against crime if we had had full membership of Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119101138	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119101140	Then the rapporteur, who is now a temporary legal rapporteur, but who is also normally the rapporteur on immigration and integration, and who regularly raises debates there on crime, will do more to raise this debate on the consequences of our having a legal reservation and therefore not participating fully in Europol cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119101201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119101202	I do not know whether I am going to have a major debate on the legal reservation in the public debate. I am not sure that I will take the initiative on this, but I welcome it if the rapporteur does so, and then I will read with interest and listen with interest. However, I could well imagine interfering in this and other debates on international cooperation, which I believe are important and are in Denmark's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119101227	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Kim Valentin from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119101245	It is good to stand here on the platform and have the annual debate on the state of play of the Danish police in relation to Europol. Thank you to all the rapporteurs, and thank you to the Minister for the statement that we are discussing today. It's supposed to be so good, but it's actually bad. That could be the heading of the statement this year. If I am not mistaken, it is the fifth time that the Danish Parliament has dealt with it, and although it is on a sad basis, namely that a majority of the Danes voted no to change the legal reservation, it is always good to take stock and follow up on how things are going. So I've been looking forward to doing that today. Having said that, I would have preferred it if we did not have to take stock of the situation of the Danish police in relation to Europol, which is due to the fact that we are unfortunately standing outside and having to take a place as a third country. So, Denmark is a third country! It is a little bit in the word that it is quite wrong. We are not, we are not a third country. It doesn't taste very good. Nor does it when you read the statement. Formulation such as • In practice, it is by its very nature more time-consuming for Danish police, a significant limitation of the Danish police's ability to combat cross-border crime and increased response time for Denmark • all bear witness to the fact that cross-border work is difficult for Danish police because we are outside Europol cooperation. In the statement, the National Police say, "The National Police tell us very clearly, for example, that Denmark's resignation has no doubt about it, it has consequences, we are getting worse at our work." Unfortunately, it's not exactly new stuff. The National Police had the same assessment back in 2017, when Denmark went from being a full member of Europol to being outside. Again, I would like to say to the matter of standing outside: we are inside. It is Denmark's self-understanding that we stand inside. The assessment at that time was that Europol cooperation would develop in a way that would put Danish police considerably lower than their European colleagues whose countries have full membership of Europol. Unfortunately, four years later, we can see that this was not an unjustified assessment. Today too, the National Police conclude that Denmark's withdrawal from Europol has operational consequences for Danish police. What, then, are the consequences? During the past year, Denmark participated in all the meetings of the Management Board of Europol. It's okay. Of course we do. However, our status as a third country means that we can only participate as an observer at the meetings. We cannot take part in the discussions in line with the members of Europol. It is hard to imagine that it is to Denmark's advantage to sit passively on the sidelines. In other words, we are not on the field when playing, but are allowed to watch from the spectators' seats. In 2017, Europol established a concept for identifying and combating high value targets. The concept covers organised criminals who pose a major threat to crime for two or more Europol Member States and who commit crimes covered by Europol's mandate. For example, as a third country, Denmark cannot designate high value targets. The National Police state that it would clearly be an advantage with high operational value if Denmark could be involved in the whole process of designating high value targets. That's too bad. The Europol Information System, also known as the EIS, is an intelligence database containing alerts on persons, criminals, organisations, offences, objects, etc. By virtue of Denmark's status as a third country we do not have direct access to the EIS. Danish police cannot therefore do searches and updates themselves, but instead they must via intermediaries at Europol headquarters in The Hague. It is part of this that the Danish police have about 100,000 listings in the EIS per year. In 2018, you were up to 159,000 listings. It is therefore not just a detail but a major nuisance which has practical implications for the work of the police. This means that the National Police are not able, with the same flexibility, to make notices in the EIS as part of the patrol police's work. This could delay and make it difficult, for example. work on border controls. This means that when the need arises, the patrol police cannot make direct notices, for example. by checking a foreign vehicle, or listings in connection with immigration and crime control, e.g.: to foreign persons in the gang environment. If the police are in the field on a suspect, instead of seeking to call one of four Danish-speaking Europol employees in Ejby, who can then do so for them, they should be able to do so if the search takes place within normal working hours. Outside normal working hours, the patrol police can call the National Police, who will then have to help break up the EIS database. That doesn't sound very clever, does it? The National Police find the procedure practically unmanageable. That is another way of saying that it is quite hopeless for the patrol police to make systematic postings in the EIS in the day-to-day assignment. Overall, there is no doubt that the National Police consider it inappropriate for Denmark to be outside full membership of Europol. It is important for Danish police tools in cross-border police work. In the Left, we regret that we cannot give the Danish police the best conditions to ensure the safety and security of the Danes. It's about the Danes' security in the end. Since this cannot be the case, I am, after all, pleased that cooperation with Europol is working well within the framework of the current agreement. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102055	You're welcome. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102101	Thank you. I just need to clarify something. Did the rapporteur say that the Danish police could not participate in the discussions on the Europol Management Board? I just want to deny that; it may be that I heard wrong. In addition, however, I would just like to say that I understand from the contribution made by the Left that the Left is very dissatisfied with the Danish people. The problem is that the Left cannot do much about it. On the other hand, the Left can do something about its agreement to this agreement, and if the Left believes that it is such a bad deal we have with Europol and that has been concluded between, as I recall, all the parties of the Danish Parliament at that time... Why is the name given to an agreement that is so bad that out of the ten minutes available to the rapporteur, the nine minutes and 52 seconds were used to be clear how bad the agreement was?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102202	I have to correct the rapporteur because I did not spend ten minutes at all, so that is certainly wrong. But what I can say is that if I said discussions, I meant decisions, that is, we cannot take part in the decisions. It may be that I came to say discussions when you point that out. On the other hand, I would like to say that I will end by saying that I can be pleased that, after all, we are making the most of what is there, but that we are not getting enough out of it, that we should get more out of it. My main point with what I am saying is that we are not a third country. We are a country that sees ourselves as a full member of Europol, and I am quite sure that the police authority would like to see that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102250	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102252	All right, then, I understand that the Left is quite satisfied with the agreement we have reached and therefore remains in it, even though it would have been better seen from the Left's point of view. I just have one question: is it not strange that something as important as police cooperation against serious cross-border crime in Europe should be tied up to whether you are a member of the European Union or not? So we have Norway, which is not a full member, we have Iceland, which is not a full member, we now have Britain, which is not a full member, we have Switzerland, which is not a full member, and perhaps I have forgotten some; I cannot see that through. We have a number of countries that are at the heart of the fight against crime in Europe, which cannot be full members. Should we not find a model that allowed all democratic countries that comply with guarantees of legal certainty; questions of how to store data and things like that can be answered by a fully-fledged common police cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102352	I am quite sure that it would be quite effective if we did so, and that is why, of course, they should all be welcome to join the European Union, we think. So that's the answer to that: to expand the European Union in this context. And it's a good community. It is a good community to work in it shows the EU especially if you do not act as a third country with reservations. And that is why the reservation that is is is not good for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102427	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102430	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we are quite satisfied with the agreement on European police cooperation. But I have to admit, I got a little confused when I listened to Mr. Kim Valentin's speech, because it seems to me that we have not read the same statement. Now I read straight out, and I quote from the statement, where it says: "It remains the opinion of the National Police that the scheme is generally operationally satisfactory. Operatively satisfactory. It's working. The Danish people were right, the Danish police can use it, and it is operationally satisfactory. Is it not an excellent agreement we have had when even the police and the Minister for Justice's statement say that it is operationally satisfactory what we have agreed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102528	Thank you and thank you for the question. It must go in the category which the hell reads the Bible, I would say, because yes, it says so, but it also says everything we can't. And when you read and try to understand what the police authority is saying, it is an expression of the fact that it doesn't work optimally.That's why I have these quotes with me today: In practice, it is by nature more time consuming for Danish police, significant limitation of Danish police's ability to combat cross-border crime, increased response time for Denmark. And then what I'm saying is that yes, if we look at ourselves as a third country, this agreement works well. However, with my understanding of Denmark, we are not a third country; we are a country that is fully involved in this cooperation we are doing to combat crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102628	I'm having some doubts. In formal terms, you must not summon higher powers, but now I have doubts as to whether the Devil rules higher or lower. But that is what the Rules of Procedure say, just for another time. Here you go. That's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102641	This is an interesting discussion. Then I would like to quote somewhere else in the statement: the National Police are not aware, however, that such delay has had an impact on the outcome of specific cases or investigations. The rapporteur mentioned that there was a time lag, and it is true that there is a little time delay, but the National Police say it has not been significant. Have we read the same statement? Well, it's operationally satisfactory, it hasn't had any impact on cases. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102724	Thank you. In other words, I could give the same answer on my own, but I understand what the rapporteur is saying. And it is quite true that the police authority states what is also working well, but if you read the whole report, it is quite clear that there are some things that do not work. There are some things you don't get enough out of. It goes without saying that if you have to call Ejby to get something, and outside normal working hours you have to call the National Police, there are some things you simply don't do, because you don't have time for that when you sit and have to act as a policeman in the field. It goes without saying that this is what they are saying here too. That is why we are critical of everything we cannot do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102813	Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102816	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good statement, and here I do not think I can criticise the fact that there is no general contribution to a more ongoing debate on the consequences of Denmark being left out because of the legal reservation. However, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur and the Left, who have been calling for a referendum on the reservation of defence, also want us to put the reservation of law to the vote at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102847	Well, we're asking the government to take a position on that. It is not the case that we want to set a date on it. We believe that the legal reservation should be abolished, but it must of course be discussed with the Danish people. So we haven't set a date yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102908	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102909	So what the rapporteur says is that the first thing we want is a vote on the reservation of defence and then a vote on the reservation of rights later. And then the rapporteur says that the government has been asked to take a position, but has the Left taken a position, and does he then want a road map for when a referendum on the reservation of law will be held?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119102930	In other words, we want both the reservation of defence and the reservation of law to be abolished. And we think that the defence reserve is the most urgent thing in this context. However, when we deal with cases in the Committee on European Affairs, I have not actually seen that there has been a single time when we have not seen that this is going under the legal reservation. And that's And we need to sit down and look at what the consequences are of that we have the legal reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103009	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no more brief comments. I would like to welcome Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103027	Thank you, President. After all, this agreement is going quite well, and we can thank the Danish people for this, who voted against entering Europol. The Danish people have thus shown themselves wiser than the majority in the Danish Parliament, and we can only be happy about that, especially because Dansk Folkeparti also among others. along with Enhedslisten recommended a no. Some have then tried to scare the population into voting yes along the way by among others. To claim that by voting 'no' Denmark would become an equal for all the paedophiles of Europe, because if the vast majority of Danish parties were to be added, all paedophiles would seek Denmark. This was not the case, and the statement shows this very clearly. There are, for example: a description of a 62-year-old Danish man who, on the basis of this cooperation, was apprehended, and then in 2020 he received a sentence of 8 years in prison. So what was said before the referendum was not right. Pedophiles are being apprehended because of the cooperation we have today. And it would have dressed up the 'yes' parties to admit that they were wrong, because this statement we have received from the Ministry of Justice simply shows that cooperation with Europol is working quite well. Of course, it could be even better if we were a full member of Europol, but as the compromise it was, the vote was also about things other than Europol, among other things. a transfer of sovereignty to asylum and immigration policy. We are actually quite happy with this agreement that has been concluded with Europol. Despite our 'no' vote, we have had a sensible and effective agreement, and it is in everyone's interest, both Denmark and other members of Europol, that Denmark should not be excluded. We have got a good deal, just as the British have got it, even though it is not as good as Denmark. Then we must also bear in mind that the wish in the vote on the reservation was that we could continue to act within the framework of Europol, and we can do so. Actually, I think it's great. Then I would just like to highlight another matter: the case of a cigarette factory in Kolding, which was also upset by the cooperation we have with Europol. And yes, sometimes the police cannot directly access through their systems, but must just above the unit in Ejby and the officers who are employed there, who then conduct a search. However, as the statement clearly shows, that delay has had no significance. It works, you solve things, and you get to the bottom of crime. In fact, I think we can be very proud that the Danes were once again wiser than the Folketing, and I also think that it should be honoured by respecting that agreement, and the statement actually shows quite clearly that it is working well. I had the pleasure of being at a meeting with the Minister for Justice, who had called for information on the statement, where we also had the opportunity to talk to the police representatives. They were actually quite satisfied. Of course, there were some things that they wanted to be part of. Now they have observer status. They cannot participate fully, but cooperation is working. We can only be satisfied with that. Then you've been circling a lot about the app, QUEST, that 9 countries • or it's 11 countries that are currently using. After all, it is a minority in the European Union that uses that app. It is true that as a cop you cannot directly search it; you have to go around the unit. But if you really want to eliminate cross-border crime, it does not happen via an app. Then permanent border controls must be reinstated. It's much more effective than having an app. So if you want to get rid of it, of course the Danish People's Party is at your disposal. Then we will have border controls reinstated, and then we will all run for it, and then the Danes will be safe and safe again. We take note of the statement and are satisfied that the cooperation is working, as we had actually predicted. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103551	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103555	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for presenting the understanding of the Danish People's Party on the statement. I have one question: can the rapporteur rule out the fact that there are crimes that are not solved because we are not a full member of Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103622	No, I can't, because I'm not in the police. When we got the report from the police representatives over at the Justice Department, they didn't mean that either. But you can also turn the question over with the Danish police: can I rule out the fact that there is crime that goes through their fingers? No, I can't. So that's a rather odd question, I'd say. Criminals are clever and always find ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103704	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103705	I also thought it was a good question. Does the rapporteur think that it is in Denmark's interest that the police should not have access to QUEST, as the rapporteur himself said, when, according to the National Police, it has negative consequences for the immigration and crime controls of the Danish police?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103728	We have indirect access, we have no direct access. The cop in the police car can't use the app, but he has to call the unit in Ejby, and then you get access that way. And the statement and the police say it hasn't affected the operations. There has been some delay, it has not been significant. So I actually don't think so. It's working. That's what the statement says.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103756	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103758	Thanks for the speech. First of all, I would like to ask the same question as the rapporteur put to an earlier question, i.e. whether we have read the same statement. Because I think it is as if you can read this statement in a way that makes it out that everything works excellent and that there is no reason at all to be part of Europol. And then you can read it in such a slightly more livery tone, what I have done myself, where, when you look at the summary, which I think you write very nuancedly, there are also some places where you point out that there are actually some shortcomings and some things you miss out on, and that it is not quite right when the rapporteur says that you do not miss out on anything essential in terms of combating cross-border crime when you do not have access to QUEST. For there it is written directly in the statement that it is the opinion of the National Police that the lack of access to QUEST will significantly restrict the ability of Danish police to combat cross-border crime compared with the police in the other EU countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103857	But that is true, and I did not hide the fact that there are, of course, some challenges when you are not a full member. But on the whole, it works well, and I am glad that we are standing outside. And frankly, even if we had full access to QUEST, there would still be problems with cross-border crime. It does not solve everything, and that is why I am just saying that permanent border controls would be far better than full membership of Europol and therefore direct access to QUEST.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103932	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119103933	I agree that this does not solve everything, but it is also clear from the statement that there are a number of other tools that we are also missing out on. The National Police also state that it is the National Police's assessment that the integration of EIS data into POLINTEL will increase the operational value of the investigative tool, i.e. POLINTEL, which the police have, because they then get the compilation of EIS data into the national system. Another point is the value it would have if one were to be able to help identify these high-value targets, even if I am in favour of doing so in cooperation with other countries, but also the investigative possibilities that will be missed in what is called EMPACT if we were equal to the other Member States. You miss that, too. Finally, the summary in the statement mentions: "Finally, it is the opinion of the National Police that access to indirect searches in EAS could constitute an effective intelligence tool for Danish police in the fight against organised cross-border crime. So there are a number of other tools besides QUEST, which we also miss and which the police point out could be of great value to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119104038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119104038-2	That is, of course, true, but then I would like to read out what is also said about, among other things. Europol's information system: The National Police are not aware, however, that such delay has had an impact on the outcome of specific cases or investigations. It remains the opinion of the National Police that the scheme is generally operationally satisfactory. It actually works quite well: operationally satisfactory. It's not a hundred percent perfect, but my point is that it won't trigger that disaster scenario, as the jalots said at the time. It's working.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119104120	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no more brief comments. And then I am very pleased that we just managed to get Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party into the debate so that we would not have to settle for a greeting from the Socialists. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119104135	Thank you. It's not like that when you have to be in two places at once. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for his statement. After all, it reflects the reality we are in, namely that in the 2015 referendum, the full participation in the European Union's judicial cooperation was rejected. This also applies to Europol cooperation. The SF then recommended a yes, and we did so, among other things, because we did not know for sure what negative consequences it would have for Denmark in relation to Europol. Now we have a special agreement and, fortunately, as the statement here today shows, it is the view of the National Police that cooperation with Europol is useful and works sensibly. The daily collaboration with the headquarters in The Hague is good and constructive, and Denmark exchanges a lot of data with Europol and gets around 100,000 searches every year in the large intelligence database EIS. It is also clear, however, that the cost of standing outside is increasing because Europol cooperation is evolving continuously with the reality of the EU Member States. The report shows that Denmark's withdrawal from Europol has operational consequences. Danish police can, for example: not with the same flexibility as the police in other EU countries use the EIS. It is difficult for the patrol police to make systematic postings in the EIS via the National Police, and therefore limited listings and requests in the system. And with fewer notices in the system, the fight against crime is being weakened, or at least it is at risk. The limitation of police access to search in the EIS delays and makes it difficult, for example. border control work and action against foreign persons associated with the gang environment. And although the National Police are not aware that such a delay has had an impact on the outcome of specific cases or investigations, it cannot be ruled out that this may indeed be the case. In any case, I think it can be concluded that these are not entirely optimal conditions. At the same time, the lack of Danish access to QUEST significantly restricts the police's ability to combat cross-border crime compared with the police in the other EU countries. And another place where cooperation develops is in relation to the so-called high value targets. Here it will be a clear operational advantage if Denmark could be involved in the whole process of designating high value targets. Denmark cannot then participate in the new Europol intelligence tool, which is based on indirect searches in Europol's analysis system, EAS, and which automatically informs countries when there is a hit in an organised crime case. It is a pity that it is now assessed that it could have been a good value for Danish police. Overall, I think the conclusion is that the Europol Agreement is working sensibly. However, the restrictions imposed by the agreement on the police are increasingly important, and we are taking this development very seriously in the SF. But we also expect the government to address the challenges we face in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119104500	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so we go ahead in the series of speeches, and I would like to welcome Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119104523	Some say that the future is now, and that must be said to be right when it comes to the Europol agreement and Denmark's participation in Europol cooperation. Because when the agreement was concluded, we accepted with open eyes in the parties to the agreement that it was the least small situation that was given the 'no' to abolish the reservation of law, knowing that it was the opinion of the National Police that Europol cooperation would develop in the near future in a way that would put Danish police considerably lower than the police authorities in the countries that are fully involved in Europol cooperation. When you read the report by the Minister for Justice, you have to see that this near future is now. One of the most obvious examples, which we have already debated, is that Denmark is unable to implement the new QUEST system and use the app that we have talked about a great deal about now, which has just been implemented in 11 Member States and is in the process of being deployed in a number of other EU Member States. It is an app that allows the patrol officers to search Europol's register on the spot and thus look up their devices on the mobile phone or tablet if they suspect criminal matters where they are. So if the Danish police are on the border in Kruså with a person suspected of serious cross-border crime, then they are obliged to contact the seconding national expert in Ejby, or outside normal opening hours from 8 to 16 so contact the National Police in order to obtain the information. And among other things... That is why it is also the opinion of the National Police that the reservation of law and Denmark's failure to participate fully in Europol have operational consequences, i.e. that the reservation stands in the way of police work and the investigation of serious cross-border crime. It is still good for the criminals, who can therefore continue to commit crime after 4:00 p.m. largely without the police having the necessary opportunities to break up the QUEST app, thereby making life harder for the police and easier for themselves. But it is bad for the safety of the Danes, and therefore a clear call from this to the Minister of Justice and to the government and to the other parties to the agreement that we will have a road map on how to raise a better public debate on the consequences of the 'no' to abolish the reservation of law, with a view, of course, to changing the unsustainable situation in which Denmark is not fully involved in Europol cooperation. And it is very much to be able to stay in the near future for us to have that road map put in place. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119104832	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119104835	Two questions: did the rapporteur say that after 1 p.m. 16:00 could not use Europol to investigate serious crime? And the second question I have is: does the rapporteur think that it is seriously possible to combat serious cross-border crime, including terrorism in Europe, without fully involving Britain, Norway, Switzerland, Iceland?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119104906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119104908	Well, I guess I was trying to straighten myself out along the way, 'cause I got a little stupid. But what I was trying to say was that it is certainly harder for the police and thus easier for the criminals after 8:00. 4:00 p.m. On the second question, which is, of course, a variant of what was also put to Kim Valentin: it would, of course, be beneficial if those countries were involved in Europol cooperation, and it would be a very great advantage for them to be involved in EU cooperation. What the rapporteur is after all looking for is whether it is necessary for us to have European cooperation in a number of other areas, and we believe that this is because there are so many other advantages, not only in the area of justice, but in all sorts of other areas, which mean that we do not want such a cherry picking approach, from which we can be in one area and then opt for another. This, of course, does not prevent us from still having strong cooperation, among other things. with Britain, too, in order to prevent cross-border crime, but it does not make EU cooperation less valuable and important to join.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105010	No, but EU cooperation is another discussion. What I note is that the Radical Left is using the legitimate fear of crime by the people, yes, and almost taking it hostage to insist that Britain join the European Union, and one might think so. The people of Britain have chosen something else; that is their right, I suppose. And if we were so seriously concerned about the fight against crime, we would be starting from that situation and saying: how are we going to build the best possible cooperation against crime? And that surely requires Britain, that Iceland, that Switzerland, that Norway and that Denmark can be full and complete members together with other democratic states. Otherwise, you really aren't so concerned about crime, so you just push it in front of you for more EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105106	Of course, Britain must be able to participate in the fight against cross-border crime, even after the people have chosen to resign. And yes, it is a resolution that we in the Radical Left are bemoaning, but of course it is their right to do so. I think they will soon and are already in the process of finding out how much unfortunate consequences it has had. But it is clear that they must be able to participate. It is therefore also a good thing that, as the Minister for Justice has also indicated, an agreement has been reached on how Great Britain will be able to participate in Europol cooperation as a third country in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105137	Sir. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105139	Thank you. We in the Left fully share the criticism made by the Radical Left about Denmark as a third country in Europol, so that is where we have a common agenda. I am a little curious about this vote on the legal reservation, because if the rapporteur imagined that the rapporteur was a Minister for Justice, what were the rapporteur's wishes for when there would be a vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105214	Thank you for the question. I have used the word road map, because I think that the most important thing is to have a road map for when it will be voted again and very much at the same time as the defence reserve. So I think we should put both reservations to the vote and within the near future, as I also said, that is. not already tomorrow, because we must also have the opportunity to raise a debate and there I would like to see more parties, who can also see the inappropriateness of us standing outside, contributing to that debate, but in the foreseeable future, where we have the opportunity first to raise the debate on the unfortunate consequences of hopefully having a different outcome. But that will be up to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105251	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105252	I am delighted to hear that, particularly with the fact that a debate can be held. Now, of course, we are having a debate on conferences on the future of the European Union, and is it not an important part of that debate that we should discuss exactly how Denmark acts as a third country in some places and perhaps avoid doing so in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105320	I do not know whether I understand the question correctly, namely that the rapporteur thinks that we should conclude the conference on the future of Europe before we can discuss the legal reservation. I think that we can pave while we are driving, and of course the conference on the future of Europe is also an obvious opportunity to clarify the disadvantages of Denmark being outside this part of EU cooperation or being outside full participation in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105349	Thank you to Mrs Sophie Callesen. There are no more brief comments, and we welcome Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten • De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119105403	Thank you, President. I think it is right to remind you of the background to why we are here today and why we have had to conclude this agreement at all. Because if Parliament's parties had said in 2016 that we are now making a referendum, which we are putting forward to the Danish people, that Denmark fully and completely joins Europol, then I think it would have been adopted I think it had been adopted. But you didn't. It was said: because it is adopted, we are also taking the opportunity to have the Danish legal reservation abolished in general, the Danish people's legal reservation on supranational judicial cooperation, and we are also taking the opportunity to impose 22 other legal acts in all kinds of different areas, and we are also taking the opportunity to convince the Danish people that Denmark will become a hotbed of terrorism and child pornography, and I know what if they do not vote in favour of not only the issue of full participation in Europol but also of the 22 other legal acts, including the general abolition of the retention of the law. And then it was that the Danish people were smart enough to say never in life. So the problem we are facing now is a completely self-created problem for those parties that are now complaining about the agreement that they themselves have been making, a completely self-created problem. We have always said that we think it is important to combat cross-border crime. We were active in getting that agreement back in 2016, we have been active in asking questions to the Minister of Justice and press for new opportunities to be sought for better relations, and we have been active in outlining the importance of increased police cooperation, which is not limited to EU countries, but of course is limited to all those countries that may be in Europe, which have a democratic system and which have control over data security. If we then move on to the statement itself, things are going very well overall, but there are some interesting things in it anyway, because some of the things that have also been mentioned by those who say that things are not going so well here are very strange. One of those places is the so-called high value targets, that is, targets that have a very high value, and here Denmark can propose and we are talking about proposing, because it is Europol that has to approve it, it is not a question of whether we can say that it has to be examined here, Europol, that some names are being examined, but we can no longer do that because of this agreement, and that is a huge problem. So let's see what high value targets are. The High Value Targets and I read from the report • are defined as organised criminals, which pose a major crime threat for two or more Europol countries. It is also, and we must bear this in mind, within Europol's mandate, and that means that it must be very serious crime, trafficking in human beings, terrorism and such things. Let us now consider the situation in practical terms. Denmark has a person who thus poses a threat to two or more Member States in this area, and we call one of the two or more Member States and say: Hey, we have a person here, can you not make sure that person is put on Europol's high value target list? Can one imagine that the country in question is saying: never in life, I wouldn't dream of that, we don't care that there is someone who poses a huge threat to us? You couldn't. Therefore, the truth is also that if I do not want to do so, the Minister for Justice asked here in the end whether there are examples that Denmark has turned to another country and asked for someone to be put on, and that country has said never in life, we will not do so, then the answer is no then the answer is no. That's the way it is. And that is how you can invent extremely many problems on the basis of something that is not really a problem. Where is there a real problem that I think we should discuss? It is the so-called QUEST register, i.e. the register that means that every police officer and every police officer I do not know how many are in all of Europe, 100 000, 500 000, 2 million? Let us just imagine that I was a deep criminal, I am not, and it is far away, let us imagine that I live in Marbella, unfortunately I do not in reality, let us imagine that I had a great car and that I had access to 1 t of hashish that I would transport to Denmark to make a lot of money. What would I do? I wanted to find one corrupt police officer, one corrupt police officer before I got in the car and drove to Denmark, and I wanted to say, check if my car was checked. If a hit came out, I'd go to another car, and I'd ask you one more time: is this car wanted? I would do that until I could safely and quietly drive my ton of hashish from Marbella to Copenhagen. Is that a good idea? Yes, there are some who think it is a great idea, but I think we should perhaps discuss it, perhaps also on the basis of some data security considerations. I think it is worth a discussion, but it is automatically used as a huge disaster, that we cannot and so, for the time being, only 11 EU countries have chosen to do so, and I look forward to the discussion I look forward to that discussion instead of just allowing it to be included in propaganda. I note also in the study, because now everything that we cannot do and so on has been talked about is being reduced from four to three by the Danish-speaking staff at Europol. Is it due to the strict demands of the wicked government that you are not getting any money for those four people? No, it is due to a lack of work, which is why it has been reduced from four to three. Lack of work! You could make it by three. This does not immediately indicate that we are facing a huge problem in solving the tasks that exist. In addition, and this is what makes us very satisfied with the fact that we have an opt-in system with regard to Europol, that Europol is developing, and there is a new mandate from the Management Board that needs to be discussed. Perhaps in particular Radical saw this ad yesterday in the newspapers: stop monitoring all of us. It says that the police must have good conditions to investigate serious crime and so on. etc., and then you write: but that we all have to be suspicious and monitored, we think we are unacceptable. It is a fundamental part of living in a free country that we can move around freely and call whoever we want without the state having to know. I think that is worth a discussion, which is why it is also a discussion, what we really think of the new mandate for Europol, which is under discussion, how we view it. I would very much like to discuss it, but I do not want to discuss it against the background of fear. I would also like to discuss this in the context of the right of citizens to preserve freedom, and we have an opportunity to do so. Finally, and I have mentioned this on some of the issues that have been raised: the Enhedslisten is in favour of strong police cooperation against cross-border crime, against child pornography, trafficking, terrorism, anything, money laundering, fraud, bank crime, uh, the more, the better. But this is cooperation that must take place between all European countries, all European countries. It cannot do that today because there has to be a restriction. What is the limitation that should be? Should they have chosen to be a member of the European Union or not? That's a weird restriction. The restriction that should be is a restriction that states whether they are democratic countries and whether they have control of their data security. That is the limit that should be imposed. And Denmark should initiate, especially now that Britain has resigned, Britain is the country that has brought in most of the information, particularly on terrorism, into the Europol system, a discussion on how to create such cooperation. The European Union can, of course, be involved, EU countries can of course be involved, but it must be wider than that. Now, it seems to me to take crime seriously. The second is to take crime hostage to get more EU, and I think that is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119110339	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119110346	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a lively speech. I would like to begin by attacking a single part of it, because the rapporteur says that the reason why we are here is that this is such a self-created problem. I can agree with that in itself quite a long way along the way, but I also hope that the rapporteur will agree that there is a problem, because that is what the rapporteur says: that is perhaps I think the problem is somewhere different from what the rapporteur has to say. For example: I hear that the rapporteur says that when you have an IT system, it can be misused. It might as well be that if you were in North Jutland and had to drive to Copenhagen, you could also abuse the Danish system. Should we not then also have a system in Denmark where we could talk between North Jutland and Copenhagen? Well, anything can be abused somewhere. In the Left, we believe that cooperation is important. It's only where it kind of starts to happen in earnest. In other words, if you trust each other, you have confidence, there will be a dialogue, there will also be development, and then you will also create something more.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119110519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119110521	Yes, but the rapporteur completely catches me by saying that when I say it is a self-created problem, there is a problem. And I would like to admit that there is one problem, because we are not a full member of Europol. There are therefore a lot of advantages, as I tried to describe them in my speech, but it is a problem that instead of proposing to Europol ourselves that we should have that person admitted as a high value target, we should contact another country where he is also a major threat and ask them to do so. Yeah, that's a problem. And it's a problem that instead of making a direct contact, you have to make an indirect contact. I think we asked about it last time, and it was something about it taking a few more minutes or something, and that's 2 minutes that could have been used for something else. But excuse me, these are so small problems, and these are not problems when it comes to fluctuating in the way that certain rapporteurs, including the rapporteur from the Left, have done today. In fact, I believe that the rapporteur of the Left is doing himself, I think it is called a disservice in old Danish, namely by driving up a mood that cannot bear and then having a serious problem if you get a referendum at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119110637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119110639	Thank you. The rapporteur was kind enough to correct me in my speech, but let me just read it out here: Denmark, as a third country and under the operational agreement alone, has the opportunity to participate as an observer at the meetings, since there may be special agenda items which only members of Europol can take part in the discussions on. Will the rapporteur admit that these are, in fact, also discussions that cannot be included in? This is just because the rapporteur corrected me in the speech, so perhaps the rapporteur should correct himself as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119110709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119110711	No, it was because the rapporteur said in general terms that it was the discussions on the board that we could not participate in. However, the rapporteur is quite right that there may be something very special and can then again assess how big this problem is. Well, I just have to say that I see it very well that it is very small problems that are being made very big. In fact, we should be discussing how to create an even more crime-fighting system across Europe against the greedy and criminal banks, against people who commit crime and terrorism, against child pornography. That is what we should be discussing instead of discussing whether we should spend one more minute making a telephone call or whether there are some meetings in which we might not be able to attend, but that has never happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119110811	Then it is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119110816	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very clear and clear speech; that is a good thing. I would like to address this issue of data security and legal certainty, because of course we are also concerned about it in the Radical Left, also with Europol, just as we are at home. But then it can be said, first of all, that it was of course important to influence Europol to a greater extent by participating fully in cooperation, if one wants to influence how one also ensures that Europol, in its way of operating, complies with various guarantees of legal certainty and data security guarantees. Secondly, the rapporteur mentions that he has a particular concern with regard to QUEST and data security, and I would just like to hear a little more about what specific concern the rapporteur has there. At the same time, the rapporteur also mentions that he would like to see more people participating in binding cooperation in the fight against crime, in other words in Europol cooperation, without having to be EU Member States. At the same time, however, it is also mentioned that data security is a problem, but it should also be a selection criterion. So it was only if you could elaborate a little on what data security problems and reservations you have in relation to QUEST and whether or not there were those of the current countries that had to be thrown out and which you would so like to have on the basis of this criterion.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119110938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119110940	What is the main problem with QUEST today is that it gives some criminals some opportunity to get through a little easily. I therefore think that this is a problem, and we have not really been given any explanation as to how to avoid it, and I have to say that, along the way, there are countries in the European Union which have not been allowed to participate in certain parts of the European Union but which participate fully in Europol because corruption is simply too high. But the question of data security that I mentioned is, of course, about how to develop QUEST, and we do not really know that, but there have been various ideas that you should not just be able to record a hit no hit on the handheld phone, but that you should also be able to get substantial more information out, right? And if it is then added to what information you put into the system, then there is, of course, a data security problem if any police officer in the whole of the EU area, apart from Denmark, can go in to retrieve information on his mobile phone. So I think that is obvious, but it is a discussion that is under way, that is, the discussion about what is going to enter the QUEST in addition to hit no hit. We have just received papers showing that it is a discussion that is and has been and that some want it to be much more information.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119111104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119111106	Well, this is certainly an important discussion. And then, quite briefly: does the rapporteur not think that it would be better for Denmark both to be able to take part in discussions on how we should develop Europol cooperation in that particular area and also to take part in decisions on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119111121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119111123	But the interesting thing is that Denmark can participate fully in the discussions. Well, we can, for example. I believe that the monitoring body that has been set up with Europol, JPSG, is called where European parliamentarians and Danish parliamentarians are sitting and discussing. We can fully participate in the discussions, and we can fully put forward what we want, but we cannot vote through with the small percentage Denmark has in relation to the European Union, so we live on the fact that we can convince others of our arguments. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119111203	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Britt Baker of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119111217	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor, and thank you for sending this statement to the Minister. As the report shows, it remains the opinion of the National Police that cooperation with Europol has an operational value for Danish police and that cooperation with Europol is working well within the framework now provided by the Europol Agreement. Nevertheless, it remains the opinion of the National Police that Denmark's withdrawal from Europol has operational consequences for Danish police. The current agreement is, in general, excellent, but we do not escape the fact that the European cooperation of the Danish police has become difficult after we stepped out of full Europol cooperation. There are a number of points where the National Police consider that Denmark's status as a third country restricts Danish police's ability to combat cross-border crime. We are seriously looking at this in the Conservative People's Party. Cross-border crime has come to remain and, unfortunately, there will be more and more of it. One of the tools we have for combating cross-border crime is precisely Europol cooperation, and Europol cooperation has contributed to several successful operations. We need to build on that. And we believe that we must constantly look at how we can give the Danish police the best possible conditions to participate actively in Europol's cooperation. As the report shows, Denmark as a third country can only participate as an observer in the meetings of the Management Board of Europol. It is such a pity that we have no real influence on such an important area. Another example of this is Denmark's role when it comes to the so-called high value targets, which were also mentioned earlier, where our influence is again limited. The Conservative People's Party has noted that the National Police for the Statement states that it would be a clear advantage if we could be involved in the whole process of designating high value targets. This is also true in relation to the assessment by the National Police of the lack of access to QUEST and its consequences. It remains the opinion of the National Police that the lack of Danish access to QUEST would significantly restrict the ability of Danish police to combat cross-border crime compared with the police in the other EU countries, i.e. those EU countries that have access to QUEST. We must resolve cross-border crime together, together with our allies, together with our partners. It gets everyone the most out of it. Therefore, Denmark must constantly seek maximum influence and benefit from Europol as much as possible. The Conservative People's Party is grateful for the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119111523	You're welcome. There are no brief comments to Mrs Britt Baker, so I would like to welcome Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119111538	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your statement. The Europol agreement between Denmark and Europol provides the basis for sound operational and strategic cooperation. The aim of this cooperation is to support and strengthen cooperation between the other EU Member States and the joint efforts of the national authorities of Denmark to prevent and combat serious and organised crime affecting two or more EU Member States. I understand from the statement that the National Police consider that cooperation with Europol is of great value to the Danish police, although it would like to have full access to all aspects of cooperation. EIS and QUEST are topics we discuss every year, and again this year it appears that it would be easier for Denmark itself to carry out searches in the EIS, but that the scheme works satisfactorily. Searches in the EIS take place via Danish-speaking national experts, and a regular search goes smoothly and unproblematic, although the process itself may take longer than if the Danish police had direct access. It will be possible, and I quote from the statement, in certain cases to delay and make it more difficult, for example. border control work. However, the National Police are not aware that such a delay has had an impact on the outcome of specific cases or investigations. It remains the opinion of the National Police that the scheme is generally operationally satisfactory. Denmark had nearly 100,000 searches last year, so it is not the case that it is very difficult or unusual to have searches carried out. I would like to get the figures from other countries' searches for comparison if they are available. So I would like to ask that as a question. Denmark cannot participate in QUEST, and there are 11 countries currently participating in it. So it is still the few countries that have chosen to participate. There are parts of the cooperation that Denmark does not participate in and that the National Police consider it would be beneficial if we participated in. If initiatives can be made to increase Denmark's value of cooperation, New Citizens will look favourably on such a proposal. And then I think that if we are to give a fair or balanced interpretation of the statement that we have been given, it is that there are areas that could be better if we had full membership; there are also many areas that work well and we cannot talk about such a disastrous situation. I guess, like Mr. Simpson... Søren Søndergaard, that if we had had a vote only on Europol, it was very likely that it would have been a yes. But they did not choose to do so; they chose to take a vote on the reservation, and the people refused to do so. That's the second time they've said no to it. Now we are talking about by some parties, or at least by a party, to take another vote. And you can do that too, but I have to say that I doubt that the Danish people will want to abolish the legal reservation in order for the police to have access to an app. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119111851	You're welcome. And there are no brief remarks to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Then I would like to know whether any of those present wish to speak on behalf of the Liberal Alliance, the Free Greens or the Christian Democrats. There isn't, so we can go straight to the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119111916	Many of the elements we are discussing, which have been mentioned, are, after all, elements that go back year by year. The arguments that have been put forward are largely those we hear year by year. And in reality, we are here in a situation where we are going to have this discussion, and that is why we are going to take it. The speakers today have one to one been a reflection of where, moreover, EU policy stands. It is best illustrated, I think, by Mr. Kim Valentin, who started by saying it should be so good, but then it's actually bad and this has operational consequences for the Danish police. On the other end, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, that things are actually going quite well, and supplemented it by that, of course, it could be better if we were a full member. Isn't the truth somewhere in between? I mean, it's clear, as sir. Søren Søndergaard also said that when we cannot apply directly in the EIS and we are not a member of the QUEST, it obviously has some consequences. But it is also true, as has also been said, that it is not the case that it has operational consequences, at least not yet. This will cause some delay, it will cause some difficulty and there will be a little more bureaucracy. Nor is there any doubt that the agreement we have made has reduced the negative effects of Denmark's withdrawal from Europol, and there we are then indirectly returning to one of the discussions that we also usually have every year, where there is a quiet hoover on the part of some parties: there you can see, it did not matter that we voted no, and everything you said was a scaremongering campaign, etc. And then there are others who say: yes, yes, but if we did not have the good deal, then perhaps some of the consequences might have occurred, then we should not rejoice at the good deal we have made and which makes it possible for us to be involved in the way we can really do if we are to cut right to the bone. That is how I read the statement, and this concerns the broad lines; then the potential problems are the biggest ones here. Cooperation actually works, but down the road there may be problems. And it is clear that if that is the case, then the situation is different. When we had the meeting with the police, where we were jointly presented with the results of the statement, I concluded myself by saying that our discussion today would be a discussion about whether the glass was half empty or half full. I thought so myself, when I look back on it, was very well seen, because that is actually what it has become. But thank you for all the good comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119112214	You're welcome. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Kim Valentin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119112222	Thank you to the Minister and thank you for the written statement. I think it is a good idea for us to have this conversation once a year so that we can just remember each other that we are not a full member but a third country and that we can do something about it when we decide ourselves that we will do something about it. I had the opportunity to put a few written questions before today's debate. One of the questions was what the cost of not being a full member really is. I could not get a clear answer to that. Can the Minister explain to me why there is no clear answer to that and whether the Minister will examine it further afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119112314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119112318	The way I remember the answer, but maybe I remember it wrong, there are some direct costs that you could say we could at least have missed. What is difficult, I suppose, is to say what the indirect costs are. Now, let's take it as I think it was sir. Kim Valentin himself said that there are 100,000 listings in the EIS a year. And how much does it cost more bureaucracy by not being able to go directly, but having to go through someone else? Now let's say it takes two minutes every time you do it. I don't know if it takes 2, 5 or 10 minutes to do that, but if you just say 2 minutes, it's 200,000 minutes of police work that could have been used for something else. I mean, it's also a consequence and a cost, but it's just indirect, and that's why it's a little hard to make up.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119112402	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119112404	Thank you. In fact, we very much agree that this may be difficult, but it is not the same as not having to do anything about it. But what I think we actually agree on is that it has some costs in terms of police investigation work and that it has some costs for Denmark in terms of more staffing and more costs for wages and everything that might now lie in it. And that's not good. Can the Minister accept the premise that this is actually not a good thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119112435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119112437	Well, actually, I don't think anyone's gonna be able to do that. I heard Mr. Søren Søndergaard says: Yes, of course, this also has some financial costs. Well, of course, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119112451	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The next item is item 3 on the agenda, and that is where we need to change the crew and have a minister present so that we can breathe for a few minutes. There are some rapporteurs here, but if we are to follow the order, there must be some more. The Minister for Industry is there enough for a majority?). I can't quite assess that at the moment, I think. However, I suggest that we start with item 3 on the agenda with the people present.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119112632	The debate has been opened and, as far as I can see, there is not yet a Social Democrat rapporteur, so we move on to Mrs Marie Bjerre from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119112718	Thank you for giving me the floor, and I will start the debate on this bill. With the bill, we are introducing a new collective disaster scheme for drought damage, and we in the Left think this is very sensible. Fortunately, drought damage is a type of damage that we experience very rarely in Denmark, but nevertheless we saw it in the summer of 2018, and this is hardly the last time we are going to experience severe drought damage. Unfortunately, climate trends speak their clear language. That is something that we in the Left are very concerned about. It is no less serious when you read the latest progress report from the UN climate panel. Here it was said from the panel that higher temperature increases with great certainty will result in increased rainfall, severe drought and more dangerous heat waves in the future. In fact, the threat from extreme weather conditions is so serious that the IPCC estimates that every half degree of global warming increases, there will be increases in the intensity of drought. We would, of course, like to see in the Left, instead of focusing on how to find solutions to reverse climate change, rather than on symptom treatment, which this bill is basically an expression of. Unfortunately, climate change is moving too slowly. The COP last week also leaves much to be desired. That is why we cannot escape the fact that we must be better at guarding ourselves against climate change impacts, so it is safe to live and operate in Denmark without concern for expensive drought damage. We saw in 2018 that the drought had very serious consequences for some homeowners. Their houses simply cracked because the soil under the house shrunk into the extreme drought. And as homeowners there was actually not so much you could have done about that situation yourself. The landowners were left with a major financial problem. There was no help from insurance companies because the damage could not be said to be sudden. In the worst case scenario, a homeowner may have to tear down his property for security reasons once such a drought has been put in place properly, and it is obviously a very large financial burden if there is not an insurance scheme covering it. That is why we in the Left have also said in the past that we want to help find a solution for these homeowners. The solution proposed in this bill seems reasonable to us. The draft law introduces a collective compensation scheme similar to the flood and flood schemes. The drought damage could be financed under that scheme, and then we also note that the hearing parties are generally very positive about this bill. With those comments, I can conclude and say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119113020	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then I'm thinking, sir. Orla Hav entered the Chamber just at the beginning of Mrs Bjerre's speech, so we are going back a little in the rapporteur's line. Here's to the Social Democrat rapporteur, sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119113038	Thank you for that, President, and I apologise. Yes, it went a little faster than I expected on the first proposal. Thank you, Mrs Bjerre, for starting the ball and thank you for the floor on this matter. I will try to make it relatively brief on the factual aspects of the draft law. Denmark is and should be a secure society characterized by the optimal security of the individual against external events, which suddenly knocks away during her or his life. We have a century-long tradition of looking after each other and running for each other when accidents create a breeding ground for threats to welfare and the basis of life. Nevertheless, it is good to freshen up the history and show that there is also a difference in the way in which it is put into practice politically. Sometimes we hear the statement that, well, well, it doesn't matter who's running these schemes, because it's gonna be the same thing. I should just like to illustrate this by going back to 2018, when we were all very concerned about a long drought in Denmark. The symptoms began to appear in houses that suffered sentence damage. The discussion spread into the Committee on Industry at that time and questions have been put to the Minister in the hope of getting the Minister to take action on this important issue, which threatened at least 200 properties around the country. It ended with an answer from the Minister for Justice, which I would like to quote. It is a response from 12 October 2018 and it says: • Since the Insurance Contract Act does not today contain detailed rules on how insurance terms, including on suddenly incurred damages, should be understood, I do not find it appropriate to review the insurance Contract Act's rules. It was, after all, a clear refusal that a government would take an initiative to help some people in a situation they were not master of themselves, but where some external circumstances threatened their lives. There we had a government that crossed its arms. I am very pleased today that the current government, the current minister, is presenting a tool for us to create that security around people's everyday lives. Then there are those who say: how much does it cost? Yeah, it's 30 kroner. per insured. I think we can devote less than 50 cents a year. week to achieve that security. So we really appreciate the bill and look forward to getting this through the committee work. I have to say that I had hoped that the Conservative rapporteur would be here, because it was in fact Søren Pape Poulsen who answered this question by refusing to do anything about it. I'm glad someone's doing something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119113356	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119113408	Thank you. Unfortunately, it often happens that there are households that experience damage to their buildings due to extreme weather conditions. Typically, it is the most storm tide or floods of rivers and streams, and it can have quite a cost to the individual, and some can almost as a family be ruined in their economy. That is why we have collective insurance in this area, and that is quite reasonable, so that we can guard ourselves against the quite large economic consequences. However, as the other rapporteurs have said, this can also go the other way. After all, we have seen in 2018 that it can be damage due to drought, which naturally does not cause the same damage, because here it is the sentence damage, but it is actually the same consequences that you can end up with, namely that there can be extremely high costs for the individual, who can also largely ruin a family's economy. That's why we in the Danish People's Party think it's good that we focus on this area and that there's a solution. I shall not be able to answer what the discussion was about in 2018 in relation to that question, Mr. Orla Hav mentioned, but I can say that we certainly had a lot of focus on it in the Danish People's Party in 2018 and actually got it in as part of the Finance Act. That was not the concrete model, but, as far as I remember, it was instructed by the old government that it should at least come up with a plan of action on how to deal with it. It has ended up in finding a solution which then came a few years later. But it's also just to say that we are at least several who have been focusing on it back in 2018, because it's pretty big consequences that the individual can be left with, and we think this is a sensible model, that we are doing collective insurance in this area, too, in the same way that we have, if it's a storm flood or flood or something else. So the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119113546	Thank you. Nor did it give rise to brief comments, so we shall continue with the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119113605	The SF can also support this proposal, and I would like, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, to congratulate the Minister for Industry and the Government for putting it forward. I have also promised to welcome from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who could not be here today, and to say that they also support the bill. As many of you have said, we are waiting for wilder and wilder weather. We have already experienced it many times in 2018 with an extremely long-lasting drought summer and it is something that we can only see will get worse. According to the UN, we are in a different situation of equality, where the world will be 41⁄2 degrees warmer. Such a world looks fundamentally different from the one we know today, with millions more cases of dengue, floods and drought, which are precisely what we are talking about today. It beats differently all around the world, but also violently in Denmark. I don't want to go into the bill anymore. It has been well and thoroughly described and we can only support it, but I may have the small addition that drought hits an agricultural country like Denmark really, really hard, and that is why we are also some who have repeatedly said to agriculture that it is only in our own interests that we seriously help to deal with some of the consequences of climate change that we see, because both massive floods, wild weather and severe drought affect our agriculture; it affects an agricultural country like Denmark very much. Perhaps I think that those who sometimes have some objections to taking some serious steps to counter climate change should also think about that today. However, the SF can support the proposal and, as I said, the Enhedslisten also supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119113813	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then the next rapporteur from the Radical Left. Here you go, Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119113827	Thank you. I do not think I need say much more than that we also think it is a very good legislative proposal. And I also agree with the comments made by many of the other rapporteurs that climate change and drought are a dead end. This bill, on the other hand, is really good. We have suffered a severe drought in 2018, which has caused a great many homeowners to experience drought damage, mainly sentence damage on their houses. At the same time, it has not been possible to find general insurance cover, nor does it appear that it will be available in the near future, and that is why the draft law here proposes a collective solution. We can only support this and therefore support the Radical Left bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119113923	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then it is the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119113937	Thank you. I am here today instead of Mona Juul, which is why I would just like to thank you for the floor. You can get financial help if your house is flooded, but you can't get help if your house suffers significant drought damage. Of course, this is not fair, and the financial conciliation group therefore decided to establish a collectively funded disaster compensation scheme similar to the pre-existing storm flood and flood solutions. So in Conservatives, of course, we support the proposal, which provides the basis for a collectively funded disaster compensation similar to the already existing solutions for storm floods and floods. In this way, the property owners must be assured of their security and compensation, in case serious drought damage, as we saw in 2018, occurs again on buildings that can cause very serious damage. Of course, there's just this way it has to be done. It can be said that disaster compensation for floods is going after this 20-year scenario, and it can also be seen whether it needs to be re-examined at the rate we are now seeing rising rainfalls. So it is quite a different discussion when we have to think about climate adjustments and how we deal with it. This is a much wider discussion, which we hope will soon be further opened up. Now some criteria are being laid down around what are called the severity criteria, and that is in relation to the extent of the damage, and we have to look at whether it will work as intended. It is true that there are other criteria than those for flooding, but I also think it is important that we keep an eye on whether these are the right criteria, because it is a relatively high level of damage that needs to be done before compensation is granted. There are a lot of homeowners who are hit by drought, but who are just below this 1 million. kr., so we must also look at it, and also if someone gets caught between this legislative proposal in relation to when you can get compensation and what else they can get from their private insurance schemes. So we fully support the proposal, but we must also say that we will have to keep an eye on whether it actually works as intended. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119114154	Thank you. There are no brief comments, nor are there any more rapporteurs in the Chamber who will ask for the floor, so we have now reached the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119114204	Thank you. Thank you very much, and thank you for the positive statements on the bill. It is quite true that with this bill we are proposing to introduce a new collectively funded disaster compensation scheme for drought damage, and the aim, as we all share, is to provide security for the homeowners who are at risk of being affected by a long-term drought. If we think back to the summer of 2018 and several of the rapporteurs have taken us mentally back to that summer it was a nice summer. There was not yet corona in Denmark, but it was also a really warm summer where there were several months of sunshine and long summer evenings. It was then also a period of dried lawns, a ban on barbecuing in the garden, Saint-Than's fires, which were cancelled • it was actually the most drought-stricken year in Denmark for 99 years and it meant for some homeowners that they could just watch while the weather caused severe drought damage to their property. These are damage which is not currently directly covered by any insurance schemes, and therefore homeowners risk being in a very difficult situation which they themselves cannot avoid because they cannot take out private insurance against it. That is why I think it is important for us to create security for the homeowners who may be affected by serious drought damage, and I am very pleased that the financial conciliation group, which we could also hear today, supports with broad consensus. When we introduce a collectively funded compensation scheme, we are making sure that there is the new drought scheme which provides for compensation for the serious damage to property caused directly by long-term drought and where the drought situation is a disaster-like event. The scheme is based on the very well-known principles of the disaster compensation schemes that we have today around the storm tide and floods from streams and lakes, and the setup is also the same, and this means that cases of compensation for drought will be dealt with by insurance companies in the same way as they deal with cases of damage caused by storm floods or floods. Because it gives citizens a sense of security for proper processing when we make arrangements based on well-known principles and setup, and in addition, the treatment of drought damage by insurance companies is also monitored. The drought scheme must be financed by the levy currently levied on all insurance policies to cover storm and flood damage, and so we do not propose the introduction of a new or a larger tax for citizens. Because the drought scheme is being introduced within the scope of the law, we propose to change the title of the law to the Law on certain natural damage, and that is a more comprehensive description of the arrangements that are now regulated by the scheme, and in the same way we will also propose that the Storm Council be given a new name, namely the Natural Damage Council. So just to round off, it can be said that, although we do not see every year as severe drought damage as the one in 2018, we look into a future with more unpredictable weather, and such drought damage must not become the concern of homeowners. In those words, I would just like to express my thanks for the positive treatment and I look forward to discussing it in committee and having this law passed when we come to the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119114556	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Minister for Industry. So thank you for that. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I'll look for the tax minister, but he should be on his way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119114748	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119114752	Thank you. We have had this debate many times before, and that is why my speech will be quite brief. However, just to explain to those who are sitting in the living rooms and do not really know what this is about, it was decided to extend the period of temporary reduction of the ministerial bill until December 2021. Now it is proposed to extend this period until December 2023. This is proposed because of wage restraint and consideration among the parliamentary parties for a change in the conditions of politicians. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119114825	Thank you. This did not give rise to brief comments, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119114838	Thank you. As our rapporteur cannot be present, I am speaking on behalf of the rapporteur. Being a minister is not an 8-4-job • the ministrative profession is a demanding job that entails some costs, including: for private and family life. A great responsibility also comes with the job of minister. As a society, we benefit greatly from the fact that it is some talented people who take on the job of minister. That is why wages must also reflect costs and responsibilities, so that, regardless of who has government power, we can attract the best and most competent candidates. In the Left, we believe that the ministerial salary at this stage reflects the responsibility and cost of the position for privacy. That is why we support the extension of the temporary reduction of the ministerial bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119114921	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119114933	There has been a system for a number of years now when ministers' salaries have been reduced by 5%, and this is, as it were, a repeat of the bill that has been dealt with many times over. And now the scheme is proposed to be extended until 2023. However, as I said, it is a revenant, because I believe that since 2010, in other words for more than ten years, this arrangement has been in place, so we could actually discuss whether it should not be permanent. The reason why it is not is, of course, that we are awaiting the discussion between the parties of the Folketing to find out how to make the salary for both ministers and members of parliament, i.e. both pay and pension conditions and other things. And there's a need to look at those rules. So we support extending this scheme to 2023, but we also hope that a slightly more permanent solution can be found to postpone this for over 10 years. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115025	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for that. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Sir. Carl Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115047	Thank you. Our rapporteur, sir. Jacob Mark, unfortunately, has been prevented from taking this debate because of illness, and therefore I will read out a short speech on behalf of him: In our office as politicians and ministers at Christiansborg, a demand is made to use the citizens' resources with reason and thought and therefore also a responsibility that we do not become a wage leader in relation to our payment, which we in the Folketing can set up or down ourselves. That is why, of course, the SF backs the proposal to extend the period of temporary reduction of the basic salary to ministers when, moreover, ministers have a decent and high income for the responsible duties they occupy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115113	Thank you for that to the SF rapporteur. And then it is also the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115120	Thank you. Radical Left cannot support this bill. We're going to vote yellow. We think it is a bad use of Parliament's time that we have to deal with this proposal over and over again. We are well aware that we are awaiting a major reform of remuneration and so on, which the parties of the Folketing have not been capable of acting enough to do. But the basic idea into this temporary extension of a 5-percent reduction in pay doesn't seem to us really belong anywhere. We think that this is a bad use of our time, and we also think that the content of the proposal is bad. But when the government doesn't want to get rid of this curl itself, we won't directly vote against it, so we'll vote yellow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115156	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115214	I am here instead of our rapporteur in this area, Peder Hvelplund. It is true, as many have already said, that this is an extension of a temporary period. I also think that we can very much begin to question the temporary, as this has actually been going on for most of ten years. I can repeat what we have said on previous occasions when we extended the scheme. We are quite critical of the privileges that we, as politicians, have. We have very favourable pension conditions while at the same time asking employees to stay longer in the labour market. We have two years' follow-up at a quite nice level, at least in relation to unemployment and living on unemployment benefits. Nor is there any requirement for activation, utility jobs, or whatever you might think of whip people around when they become unemployed. It is, of course, described that this system will show wage restraint for ministers. Yeah, that's true, but with 1,185,966 kr. There is also room for wage moderation on the basis of which it does not affect the retirement of ministers. It is true, as has also been said, that this is actually awaiting further consideration and clarification, in other words a reform of the conditions of politicians. I also think that, as the radical rapporteur did, questions can be asked as to whether we should continue to do this. Why isn't anything happening in this area? What has been done about it? Or have any considerations been made at all? We have the impression that, as I say, most of the ten years have now been spent on extending the arrangements. Why is there no result of those considerations, if they have been considered? We suspect, of course, that you really do not. So we really think that this reduction should be made permanent. Then we are free from having to show up here every two years or how often it is to extend the scheme. There is, strictly speaking, no reason to do so. We must then wait for the so-called reflections and clarifications to be made. Nevertheless, because we think it is sensible, and we think that the level of wages for ministers and for that matter also for members of parliament is ample, we naturally support the proposal to reduce the basic salary by 5%. and insists that it should continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115454	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115503	Yes, I am taking a little for colleagues here today; I am here instead of Mai Mercado. The bill here reduces the salary of ministers by 5%. This has been a practice since 2011 and has been repeatedly extended. The Conservative People's Party can once again support reducing the remuneration by 5%, but we would also like to take this opportunity to say that it is not sustainable just to continue along the same track every two years. We would rather there be a proper discussion of remuneration and pension conditions among politicians. In fact, we felt that we were well in the process of the first discussions until the corona hit. We had a view that there was a willingness to follow the recommendations of the Pay Commission, and when I speak in the past, it is because we no longer have that view. Because it has been a long time since we had those discussions and it has been a long time since it was on the agenda. So instead of just voting yellow and walking out of the Chamber like the Radicals and thinking this is annoying because we do not think it is clever that we are standing here again and again we want to say that we are voting in favour of the proposal, but now we also hope and call for a majority of parties to come again that want to change in line with the recommendations of the Pay Commission. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115630	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115645	Thank you. New citizens can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115652	Thank you. And then there are no more rapporteurs present in the Chamber, so that is why we have reached the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115654	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for receiving the bill, which contains an initiative to extend the period for the temporary reduction of the basic salary of ministers by two years. A little background first: as you know, on 1 January 2011, a temporary reduction of 5% in the ministerial bill was introduced. as part of a recovery of the Danish economy. The reduction in the ministerial salary was later extended in 2012, 2015, 2019 and also in 2020. The period of temporary reduction of the Ministerial Decree thus expires here on 31 December of this year, i.e. in 2021. The Government therefore proposes that the temporary reduction in the basic salary of ministers should be 5%. shall be extended until and including 31 December 2023. In doing so, the government wants to maintain wage restraint for ministers, and the extension of the temporary reduction period also allows us at the same time to give further consideration and clarification to the conditions of politicians. The government will therefore wait for these discussions, which are taking place in the Folketing. However, as I have said, it is positive that such broad support for the proposal will continue the temporary reduction of the ministerial budget until the end of 2023. So thank you once again for the positive reception of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115822	Thank you. I should like to make a brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115825	Now it was clear from the many brief speeches that there is a great deal of patience in all the parties, and this has even led the Radicals to actually want to vote yellow to it, because now you don't really think you can go on with this move any longer. That is why, of course, I would like to hear from the Minister about the following. First of all, of course, I assume that he has heard the criticism, and now we would like to see some results of the analysis work if it is going on at all. And that is the next question: do we really have serious reflections, discussions, analyses, clarification of what it is all called, what is to happen, so that before the next extension, before 31 December 2023, we can actually have a result that we can discuss?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115913	This is a matter for the Folketing, which is why it is not something that I, as a minister, should interfere with. It's the Folketing and thus the house and the building that Mr. Henning Hyllested himself is part of who handles these discussions. That is why I have no further knowledge of what is going on in discussions. This must be dealt with among the parties of the Folketing. That is also why we are extending the period, so we have plenty of time to take these discussions, and we have to do that here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115946	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119115947	So now the Minister of Taxation is a member of a party and even a member of the largest party, which is why I simply do not believe that the Minister does not know whether there are real considerations going on between the parties. I must admit that, as far as I am concerned and as far as my party is concerned, we do not know that something is going on, we have not been involved in anything. But then, of course, you can say: you can take the initiative yourself. But if it doesn't come from, if I may say the parties together, then I don't really know what to do with this. So I think it is a little too much to get rid of it, although one can say quite officially and rightly that the government is not involved in it, it is the Folketing that is like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120028	No, but there's no reason to hide anything. Of course, there are discussions, everyone knows that, and Mr President-in-Office of the Council knows that. Henning Hylllested doesn't have to hide that either. There is. But there are many points of view, and they must be dealt with by the Folketing; this is not a matter for the government. This is the task of the Folketing, and we are happy to assist to the extent necessary, but it is the responsibility of the Folketing, and we therefore leave it to the Folketing to find out how it should be landed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120100	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to the Minister of Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120116	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Alexander Grandt of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120136	Thank you for the floor. In the Social Democratic Party, we are concerned that we are constantly strengthening tax control by, among other things. updating and developing methods that can contribute to more effective and targeted control. And that is why I am also pleased that today we are dealing with a proposal that is both about strengthening eSkatData and about regulating tax administration's access to register coordination. The bill consists of three parts. Firstly, it is proposed that companies authorised by the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority to operate as financial advisor should be allowed to use eSkatData. Through eSkatData, a financial advisor, with the consent of the citizen, can obtain information from the Tax Administration on the financial situation of the citizen. This is something that has been demanded in the industry, and it is also something that improves conditions for users because they are free from the bureaucracy of having to transfer data themselves. Secondly, it is proposed to strengthen eSkatData by extending the scheme, i.e. to extend the amount of data that can be transmitted through eSkatData. And, of course, it is again with the consent of the citizen. The third and final part of the bill deals with the ability of the tax administration to carry out better and more intelligent controls when a company reports for registration and a so-called register check has been carried out. And this must be done by allowing the Tax Administration to collect, process and collate data. In addition, the improved access aims to help develop new machine learning methods and models to find out where to put in place controls more analytically. All in all, therefore, the draft law helps to meet the demand from different industries, while at the same time benefiting both the individual citizen and the companies applying eSkatData, and therefore the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal. And then I should say a message from the radical rapporteur, who unfortunately cannot be in the Chamber today, and say that the Radical Left also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120347	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made to the Socialist rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120356	Thank you for the floor. After all, the draft law is very much about the need for better tax control by using data that the Tax Administration has, but also by being able to use all the data that is otherwise in the public sector. After all, it is difficult and virtually impossible to be against data being used to catch fraudsters and search the right people for control. But there is also another aspect of it, the more principle, because where is the demarcation, in relation to what data can be used for? So I'm actually just gonna try to look at the Social Democrats' attitude as to whether you might not be able to make a delineation on this proposal, because what can the Tax Administration use the data for? Can we create transparency so that the Danes can know what information the Tax Administration draws about the Danes etc.? Because as it is here, it is really just an open barn door where you can get all the data you can find about the Danes, and use it for whatever you want. So the question is, could the Socialists in the committee work help to see if we can narrow this down? I would like to stress that I am in favour of using data better than we are doing today, and that is good, but as it is here, it is therefore a legislative proposal without any definition whatsoever of what it can be used for. I think there is something in principle in which we, as Parliament, have to take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120503	I am, in fact, in favour of the fundamental considerations of the rapporteur. However, I would also like to say that when we have digital instruments that will enable us to have more effective control, so that the authorities will be better able to identify where we need to take action with that control, I think that is crucial, but that does not, of course, change the fact that various proposals can come up in committee work. We must, of course, be open to this, but this must not change the fact that the main focus of this bill is on which I think is absolutely crucial for us to have a top-tuned tax control. Of course, we are making use of the data we have in order to come after those who cheat.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120545	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120547	I fully agree that you need these data, and it is only good if you can strengthen tax control by controlling the right ones and doing it where there is a greater chance of cheating. But, as I said, this is the second part, i.e. the definition of what I am talking about. Should the Danes not be able to have insight into what data they draw as Treasure Management? It's not just about the data they have, because they can draw everything; we'll allow it with this. So, do you have to use it alone for tax control, or can you also use it to close tax holes? How far should we allow them to go? That is more what I think could be a good fundamental discussion, and I was actually hoping that the Socialists would help frame it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120623	As I understand it, this is, of course, very much what concerns registration checks, i.e. when a company reports and registers itself. That's why you don't give carte blanche that in all sorts of different areas of tax administration, compared to cases that are not a specific case in the Tax Administration, you can use these registers. I think it has to be kept in mind that it is about developing new methods through machine learning to create the best control.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120654	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur, and that is why it is the rapporteur on the Left, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120703	Thank you for the floor. In fact, in the Left, we are very much in favour of more use being made of the technological tools for improving tax control. It's a smarter way of doing control. We think this is really, really positive. So we are actually positive about that. However, when you increase control and give these opportunities, it is also important to ensure the legal certainty of citizens. This bill improves the tax administration's ability to control, but we are quite concerned about the consequences for citizens' legal certainty. The homepage requested by the government is very wide and we do not feel safe in terms of the protection of the use of Danes' data. There are a number of critical consultation responses expressing concern about the Danes' fundamental rights and legal certainty, and I would therefore urge the Minister to consider clarification of the legal basis and to look at how to further improve the legal certainty of the Danes. We are fundamentally positive about the use of machine learning, but in the context of committee work we need to get more into depth about what this has to do with the legal certainty and fundamental rights of the Danes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120811	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then it is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119120819	As has been said, this is a legislative proposal which is about allowing the Tax Administration to collate all the registers and the information they hold themselves, but in such a way also allows them to draw, without limitation, as I read it, all other public data that can cover anywhere else in the public sector. It's for making machine learning, you call it "some would call the artificial intelligence solutions such purely IT-wise so you can collate these data. The aim is, of course, to better control the Danes and companies, so that they can easily catch the right ones or pull the right ones out to control, and this is, in fact, a very good purpose with which we agree. For who does not want to catch the crooks, and who can actually be against it? I don't think anyone is. But it's also a question that's right in principle, because what are these data for? What data is it that can be used? And where are the limits of what they can be used for? There's really no answer to this. There are no examples of what it is that you want to do from searches. So I very much lack the transparency of what these data are to be used for, what the purpose is and what the boundaries are. That is not very clear. There is no representation of whether it is if you deliver your children late in day care or when you drive over Storebælt or whatever it is. No one has more knowledge about the Danes than the public does. They know pretty much everything about us. And this is just an open door for you to use everything you can find out there without the Danes knowing what kind of data is being used and for what. I think it's a little too big a barn gate we're opening up here. I am very much in favour of using data to look for the right ones for control, but a blank cheque to use all the data you can find without there being any boundaries to what is going to be going too far. Of course you have to be able to catch the scammers, but should this also be used to develop new taxes or to close tax holes or just to optimize taxes so that you can arrange it so that as many as possible will pay as much as possible in tax? Nor do I think that what we want politically in here is that these are the tools we need to develop with some artificial intelligence. So, as I said, we are positive about using data. We think it's good to look for the right ones. In principle, it can also be an administrative relief for companies that the people who do well and have no problems are not drawn out, but that they are the ones who have problems that are more drawn. But there is clearly no clear demarcation in this draft law, and we look forward to it and hope that the tax minister will be involved in the committee procedure. That is also why I have already asked, and I do not remember whether it is eight or nine different questions in committee. So we're positive that we're using data, but this is a little too broad in terms of knowing what it's all going to be used for. Then I would just like to make one final comment: I think that we have enough challenges with IT already in the area of taxation. We have many star war projects in progress, some of which may not even come into being. Should we not see to it that many of the old IT systems are corrected before we embark on such a mega project that we should be able to draw data from all public bodies that exist in the country and then create such artificial intelligence where no one quite knows which algorithms come out with any result? So I'm thinking maybe we could focus on some of the problems we already have before we do such a new big star war project here. So I would like to wait to say whether we are going to support or not support the bill, until we might be able to get this defined a little more and be a little more precise in the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121154	Thank you. Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alexander Grandt, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121158	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if it could not be imagined that using machine learning and algorithms we could have more effective control and put the rapporteur in a position to do so in his speech because we know that there are patterns. We know that there are repeated patterns when you try to cheat in taxes, and there we will have the opportunity, with these technologies, to actually find the tax scammers rather than to shoot with dispersal. Could it not be imagined instead of being nervous that this is a general Big Brother monitoring of all citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121244	Thank you for the question. I must not have said this clearly enough in my rapporteur's speech, but in fact I think I tried at least to say several times that I think it is a good idea to use data in order to hit the right ones precisely so that more is done to the fraudsters, rather than to shoot with dispersal, so as to hit all sorts of others who may not have anything to hide and have reported correctly or whatever it may be. So I agree with that. And I also said at the beginning of my speech: who can be against it? It's more the definition of what kind of data you can use. What can you use them for? How far can you go? It is more that there is no demarcation and that there are also some citizens on the other hand who might have the right to call the Tax Administration and say: What data have you drawn about me? I'd like to know what you're using about me. What are these things you're using? There are no such things to protect citizens or businesses, and that is what I would have liked to have done, because of course we need to use data to hit the right ones, but I also think that, as a Parliament, legal certainty and, in principle, a distinction should be made. What can you use data for? What data? And how far do you have to go with these things? That is the balance we should try to examine in the committee work, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121347	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121358	Thank you. The bill here has two main elements: One on the interconnection of data in tax administrations, and one on giving financial advisors access to eSkatData. Data interconnection is not something that the SF is generally very happy about. We believe that the state must be very careful when sharing citizens' data across public bodies. Citizens' rights to privacy must not lose sight of the fact that the state must make things smarter and faster. However, as we read in the SF the proposal here, the new initiatives are not about sharing information across public bodies, but about coordinating data within the tax administration, and we do not see this as something that risks compromising citizens' private information. When data is combined, it is important to always have the legal home 100 per cent. In place, and that's what it's gonna do with this bill, and that's good. It is also good that the bill gives the tax administration a better chance of discovering fraud with taxes and taxes. With the new more data-driven methods, as was just in the debate here, this can be done, and it is also possible to create fewer inconveniences for the majority of citizens and companies who comply with the law and report correctly. We in the SF can only be positive about that. Most recently, the collection of VAT has received heavy criticism in order not to detect enough cheating, so it is a good thing that an additional effort is now being made in general. In the SF, we also take a positive view of the second part of the bill, which deals with allowing financial advisors approved by the Danish FSA to access eSkatData if they have the consent of the citizen. It is, of course, important that the FSA's approval is thorough and proper, and it is important that it is quite clear what the citizen consents to; but provided there is, the proposal provides better financial advice, and it is difficult to oppose. For this reason and for the other reasons I have mentioned earlier in my speech, the SF supports the bill here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121554	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121557	Thanks for the speech and also, in fact, for the SF's focus on that there has to be a framing of what you can use data for. As I heard, but it may be that I heard wrong, the SF rapporteur said that it was not felt that data could be deducted from all sorts of other public bodies and that it was only the tax administration's own data. There I would just like to mention that the introduction to page 3 of the draft law actually states that access to all other relevant data that the tax administration itself considers relevant is provided. So there is no definition of what may be relevant and what one can use it for. So it is not just the tax administration's data. It's all the data we say you can draw if you think it's relevant. Can it not in the SF's eyes be a problem to give a blank cheque?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121640	I understood that it was only a question of collating data within the tax administration, even if you might be able to retrieve from other places. Just as we have read this, we do not think it seems problematic, but we are, of course, very open to looking at the boundaries. I heard Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær's question earlier to Mr. Alexander Grandt, even though I was just out of the room watching the screen, is certainly ready to see if there are any ways this should be dealt with if there are any problems about it. We have not been able to find much when we went through it, and we think that this proposal has some pretty important elements, also in terms of combating cheating and so on. That is why we are the starting point for this, but we would like to take part in the committee's proceedings in looking at whether there are any ways that need to be tackled.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121722	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121724	Thank you for your answer. I will just try to read out the fourth paragraph on page 3: "In addition, it is proposed that the Tax Administration should be able to collect and process all necessary information on the economic and professional situation of natural or legal persons from other public authorities and publicly available sources with the information held by the Tax Administration. ▪ So, you can grab all other public authorities and drive into your own information if you think it is relevant. So it is not only the tax administration's own information, but, as such, all other relevant ones that they consider relevant. So there is no limit to the fact that it is only their own data.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121759	But it will still be something that is being combined within the tax administration, as I understand it, and that is what is relevant to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121807	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then it's sir. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119121818	I am here as a standin for our tax rapporteur, Rune Lund, who unfortunately could not be here, so I will read out the speech he has stabbed me in his hand, if I may say so. However, I would like to add at my own expense that we are, and the speech will of course also show, very much in agreement with the Danish People's Party's tax rapporteur in some of the comments he has made. However, the draft law contains several elements relating to the processing of personal and corporate tax reports. The part relating to the ability of the tax administration to collect, process and collate data in order to develop machine learning models and to carry out more data-driven controls has received criticism in the consultation responses. And that is not because Enhedslisten is positive about improved tax controls, but it must of course always be ensured that citizens and businesses are not disadvantaged in terms of legal certainty. The Ministry of Taxation has assured that tax controls, which may lead to tax cases, will be carried out through manual checks, but we will ask further questions about this here in committee. In relation to the element of access to eSkatData for financial advisors, we also have questions about this part of the committee's proceedings. We believe that there may be a problem in allowing advisors in large financial groups to obtain and potentially disclose information within the group obtained from eSkatData. If you take, for example... Danske Bank, which runs both a mortgage and a real estate agency, in addition to running a bank, will not be in the consumer's interest to share information across the board, as it may impair a negotiating situation. In addition, unfortunately, we have seen problems in the past with a financial company thinking that it is a consultant who sits in front of you, but where it is in fact a sales consultant who, moreover, aims to secure the company's profits. Thus, if people succeed in getting people to invest in special types of loans, they may be investment products. That is why we will be asking questions about how it can be ensured that increased access to information for financial advisers cannot lead to worse conditions for citizens and consumers at all. So we reserve our position on the draft law until we have been through the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119122059	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber who want to speak, so we have reached the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119122113	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for the basically positive reception of this bill. It is clear that there can be and are questions of principle in this context. It is there when we discuss the use of data by the authorities, which is why I think it is quite relevant that we should discuss it. The government and its parliamentary basis, and indeed all parties in the Folketing, are behind strengthening tax control, what can be said calmly is a historic boost and reform of tax control, which must ensure that control is both more up-to-date and more effective. And if you have followed the media about big fraud and fraud networks, I think you will know that some of the things that need to help ensure more effective tax control are that it becomes more data-driven, that we get better data and analysis tools. I think that's important to have as a backdrop that when we're dealing with the big scamsetup, as we've seen in some of these cases, manual control can be a gain for some of these groups. And that is why I think it is important that we pay close attention to the possibilities of receiving the many data currently available to the Tax Administration, in other words how these opportunities can be fully used and make tax control considerably better, but also more targeted. In addition to being better at using data and also data as an analytical tool, the aim is to make it easier for companies to do it right, and it is an important priority for the government that we continue to focus on creating a good framework for our business community. That is why it is clear, when you look at the draft law, that we are addressing some good elements which also help to ease the administrative burdens for business and for ordinary Danes. I shall come back to that. The bill gives the Tax Administration the opportunity to develop new and more up-to-date methods to ensure more effective and targeted control in the field of the Treasury. In the development and application of e.g. machine learning models are the reality that then control becomes both more data drive, but it also becomes more intelligent if you want to. With the application of these models, the tax administration will, among other things: be able to ensure a higher and more stable percentage of hits compared to who will subsequently be taken for further checks. The draft law specifies that register coordination may also be carried out in connection with the checks carried out by the Tax Administration when a company declares its registration. The purpose of this control is to prevent the registration of companies which are intended to commit fraud. So it's an advanced control at the entrance to the Tax Administration. And why is that? Because some of the huge frauds we have seen have taken advantage of the fact that that control has not been there and you have entered the system and used it access, unfortunately, to get very large sums of money too quickly. It has been mentioned in the media and several rapporteurs have said that there was a need for the tax administration to actually tackle this. And that's what's happening now. By carrying out this control in the past, the companies are, as I said, prevented from inflicting losses on the state, often also very large losses. Thus, checks must help to ensure proper registration of the company, prevent arrears and identify and prevent companies potentially committing fraud from being registered in the Tax Administration. When it is clarified that tax administration can carry out register collusion for control purposes during the registration phase, we provide the Tax Administration with the best means to put an effective end to companies that do not have real intentions in obtaining registration with the Tax Administration. That's the point of this. The bill also gives financial advisors, as I said, the opportunity to use eSkatData. This will make it easier for both advisors and for the individual citizen in situations where a number of information on the financial situation of the citizen is needed in connection with the company's provision of advice. After all, both the financial advisor and the citizen will be spared the trouble of piles of papers on the citizen's financial information. With eSkatData, the information is sent safely and digitally directly from the Tax Administration to the financial advisor. However, it is important to stress that the Tax Administration can of course only disclose information via eSkatData once the citizen has given his express consent to it. This is a proposal which has been sought by the consultancy industry, and with the benefits for both advisers and Danish consumers, I am glad that we have now also moved forward with the proposal. In addition to the proposal to allow financial advisors to use eSkatData, it is intended to make the system even better for all the companies that currently use it. The draft law therefore also contains an initiative that information reported to the Tax Administration on a quarterly basis should be included as part of the information that a company can obtain with eSkatData, i.e. in the new scheme. This means that the overall information a company will be able to obtain gives an even more up-to-date and accurate picture of the economy of the individual citizen. For example, it could be a bank which would then have a better basis for assessing a citizen's economy before deciding whether a loan can be set up from the bank. In conclusion, of course, we would like to respond to the questions raised, and I think it is quite appropriate that we should discuss the issues that have also been raised in the consultations. I have seen that the CSFs, i.e. the auditors, have written a hearing answer. I think it is important in this context to say that the questions will of course follow on from the debate that has been held that the need for the information to be provided to the tax administration needs to be stressed. That's what the bill says. This means that the co-operation of data, including personal data, requires objective purposes and, as I said, the processing of the data must not be more extensive than is necessary in relation to the purpose of the processing of the data. It is a general principle of authority when processing data and coordinating information. It is about proportionality in the use of the information. It's a very common principle. And that is why this is also an attempt to strengthen our management in order to prevent those who have no real intention of registering as a company from coming in. We'll have better opportunities for that now. But let us take up the discussion in committee, and we shall be very happy to take part in it. Those were supposed to be my closing words for now at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119122859	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119122903	As I said, we think it is positive that the digital tools are being used to carry out a better control... you should harvest the low-hanging fruits. Where we are concerned is when it is not only CSFs, but also the Data Protection Agency, which is concerned about legal certainty. We would also be concerned if it were only CSFs; we listen to everyone who is concerned. But we are just quite concerned about the general concern expressed here in the hearings, and so I would like to ask the Minister why the Minister has chosen to make the provision as broad as it is. Why is it not clarified?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119122938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119122939	We can elaborate on this in committee, but the basis for that is what I said, namely the general principles of proportionality for the use of admissions by the authorities in these matters. It is known from a whole range of other areas. So that is the basis for it. Can we develop examples of what it can be used for? Yes, we can do that, and we will do so in committee. Now, I have only been in office here for a little over two years, but I have to say that with the cases mentioned in the media, I think we all know very well that what we are struggling with when we make broad agreements on strengthening control is precisely about this. There is a need for us to be able to use the many thousands of data we get better, and we need to be able to use, if you like, intelligent data use, i.e. this machine learning, to put in some stop blocks, which then means that people are being taken for manual control. It is both more targeted and more effective, and I would venture to claim that there is far greater legal certainty for the individual than if you simply per. This is because we are worried that there is a gap somewhere, and that direct manual control of an entire sector is being carried out. Here it becomes much more targeted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123059	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123100	After all, I have always said that we are in this way in order to ensure better control, but what we are concerned with is that at the same time we also ensure legal certainty. Does the Minister not think that legal certainty can be further ensured in this bill? Is everything in this bill strictly necessary in order to carry out the checks that we need to ensure that there are no these fraud cases? Does the Minister think that there is no room for better legal certainty in that bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123129	We would like to help describe it further so that there can be clarification, and with regard to the concerns that exist and which I recognise can of course be there, we would like to see whether it can be described a little more precisely in which situations it can be applied. But I also believe that it is necessary to be prepared for some of the major cases we have seen VAT carousels, chain frauds and other cases to show a tremendous amount of creativity from those who want to enter the system and exploit the openness of the system. Of course, what is important is that this is done on a proper basis and that it is only those we are going for, and not all sorts of others.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123203	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123205	As I hear the debate, everyone in the Folketing agrees that we need to use data better and that we find more specifically those that need to be captured. On the other hand, the debate goes on: what about the legal certainty of the individual? How do we ensure which data is extracted and that there is a grazing of what you can use the data for and what data you cannot use the data for? That's what's missing from this bill. I agree with the tax minister that this is a great tool, but there is just no definition of what you can use it for. Is the Minister, for example? do not agree that a citizen should then be able to know what data they are using about the citizen? I think it would be a small thing to give the Danes the legal certainty. Because, on the one hand, there is collective legal certainty in which one says: 'Okay, you have to catch those who cheat, there is some competition in it, but in so far as the individual, on whom you can then draw a lot of data and where you do not know what data and what they are used for, that is something we need to sharpen up. Doesn't the Minister of Taxation agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123303	This is on a very clear basis, namely that you must not use information that is more, if you like, comprehensively than what the purpose is, just as it says. This is perfectly normal regulatory practice, and it can be seen in all sorts of other areas as well. That is also what we are doing here. So that's what it says. We can easily help to illustrate what this could mean in a fiscal context. I think that is important. After all, no one has any intention that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, who is a decent citizen of society, must be someone who can get into the web here. This is about the fact that you don't use information that goes beyond what you as an authority think is the purpose of the entrance in an area, for example. So we would very much like to play a part in trying and developing this. I think that's fine. I welcome the consensus that there is a need to strengthen this area, and there will be, because as it is now, we as a country are challenged by the fact that there are networks that use it, if you like, Achilles heels that have been in the system in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123412	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123414	Thank you for that answer. It is a good thing that the Minister is, after all, taking a look at it in committee. I noticed another thing, and that is what the Minister has said on several occasions, that data should not be pulled out to a greater extent than is necessary and that there should be a clear purpose for it. But who defines it? Who checks that data has not been extracted to a greater extent than is needed or has not drawn data unless there is a clear purpose to it. Can you, for example, do it? use such an artificial intelligence model as this to find out which taxes it is best to introduce, in relation to getting e.g. the highest possible tax revenue? It's not defined in this. Who controls when you exceed the limit of what data you use and what purpose is actually okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123456	Well, that's the law on which the authorities stand. These are general administrative provisions which the authorities are working on in the light of: there must be proportionality in what is being done. If you have the opportunity here to use data to collate, to streamline a control effort, then that is the purpose, and then it is not to look at whether it and the chocolate tax or the cola fine or other is effective. We have plenty of parliamentary issues from, for example. Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær to emphasize, so we can easily find out. But here's the point: we get a much more targeted tool to go after those who are the basis for going after. That's it. And we would very much like to be involved in describing the general basis on which this legislation on proportionality is based, so that we may be helping to sharpen up the purpose of this in the legislative process. We would very much like to be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123548	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123604	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, sir. Alexander Grandt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123618	Thank you for the floor, President. The reason for the legislative proposal we are now considering is that the seafarers' allowance scheme has the character of State aid, and in this context it must be approved by the Commission. I believe that it is every ten years. It makes important demands on how, on the one hand, we support a maritime sector and, on the other hand, we comply with the requirements that the Commission may have for the scheme. The maritime sector is generally exposed to high levels of international competition, and it is therefore important to have some tax arrangements that mean that state aid can be maintained and designed as optimally as possible. Therefore, it is proposed, firstly, that seafarers working on board vessels regularly sailing with passengers between ports of EU or EEA Member States should be nationals of an EU or EEA Member State in order to be eligible for a seaman's allowance. Secondly, it is proposed that regular passenger services to ports in EEA Member States should be treated as such services to ports in EU Member States and not third countries, as is the case today. Thirdly, a number of amendments are proposed to the reimbursement scheme for sand-suckers, which aims to improve conditions in Denmark for shipping companies operating sand-suckers. In this context, it has been important for the government that the reimbursement scheme was not restricted by the latest State aid authorisation and therefore the aid under the scheme is brought up to a level that corresponds in many ways to the previous level of aid, for it must remain attractive for sand-suckling companies to operate their business from Denmark. Finally, the last part of the legislative proposal is about changing the list of countries on the EU blacklist of tax havens. This will ensure that the list takes account of the changes made in the Council. This concerns, among other things: on three countries, namely Anguilla, Dominica and Seychelles, which have been removed from the list. In addition, Trinidad and Tobago are on the list. The draft law is expected to lead to a reduction in revenue of 19 million. kr. in 2022 and onwards. In summary, the Social Democrats can support the proposal and I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that so can the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123852	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123857	The rapporteur is quite right in saying that this is a state aid scheme, one of many state aid schemes in this area, in other words in relation to shipping companies. I just want to hear this in general terms: what does the rapporteur think about the fact that we are dealing here with an industry that actually has quite a fine income and has had it for many years, but now in 2021 and expectably also in 2022 and perhaps even several years ahead, it actually explodes, that is, where revenue from shipping companies explodes? Can one reasonably continue to say that taxpayers must hold their hands under a shipping industry which actually earns money?
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119123954	It is the view of the Social Democrats that we certainly have to deal with the global conditions for shipping companies and that in other countries there are also a large number of aid schemes for shipping companies, and therefore it would be a pity to send a lot of Danish workers out of the country. And in addition, I would say that it is not just for the individual shipping company it is support for an entire industry. So, yes, there may be shipping companies that make money; there may also be shipping companies that either now or in the future will need such a scheme even more. So it's our opinion that because of the fact that there are these kinds of conditions around the world, we can't tolerate in Denmark just abolishing it with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119124043	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119124045	That is the usual argument. It's definitely not new. And it is, of course, the usual argument that is about Danish labour and maintaining Danish labour. But it is a fact that there is not much Danish labour left in many shipping companies, especially among those who are DIS-flagged. And it is also disputed several times, but as far back as the 00s by the economic wise men who have disputed that it would have a particularly significant socio-economic significance, for example. flattened it out. So that is an argument that does not stand up at the end of the day. But I know that this is the usual argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119124133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119124134	I don't know if it's gonna last. Well, there's money going to be made in this business. I think it would be extremely unfortunate to send it to other countries when we have the opportunity to ensure that we also have a proper maritime sector in the future. Social democracy backs this up. If the whole world were to agree that aid to shipping companies would no longer be granted worldwide, then one would have something more like a free market, and one could of course reconsider it here. But I don't see that we're facing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119124208	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur, so now it is the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119124219	Thank you for the floor. Denmark is a maritime nation. The draft law ensures that some of the established tax regimes containing State aid to the maritime sector can be maintained and developed in the best possible way within the framework of EU law, including the EU Guidelines on State aid to maritime transport. The draft law proposes an adaptation of the maritime deduction scheme to ensure that the scheme can be approved and continued in accordance with EU law. The proposal requires that seafarers working on vessels engaged in regular passenger services between ports of EU or EEA Member States will only be entitled to a seaman's allowance if the seamen are nationals of an EU or EEA Member State. In the same way as Danske Rederier, I have noted that this is the case in the future, with effect for employment relationships starting on 1 January 2022 and thereafter. It's an important part of this. This is a less intrusive implementation than had previously been envisaged and, moreover, more appropriate in relation to the European Commission's stated condition for approval. The proposal contains amendments to the reimbursement scheme for sand-suckers. The amendment compensates for the reduction of the scheme in the context of the most recent State aid authorisation it is positive. For the Left, it is important that sandsucking companies also have good conditions for operating from Denmark. Danish shipping companies, shipping, maritime companies and Danish ports are a heavyweight in Danish economy. In 2019, the industry invested no less than 412 billion. kr., and every day the blue maritime Denmark employs about 60,000 people. We must provide good conditions for continuing to create value and growth for ourselves and Denmark. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119124448	Thank you. There were no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119124458	This bill contains several different elements, which I will mention in the order in which they appear in the bill. The first is the adaptation of the seaman's allowance scheme to EU law, which is a change that we support, it is of a slightly more technical nature. Then there is the second part, which concerns the adaptation of the requirement of nationality to the Maritime Taxation Act for those who typically come from Britain. It is an agreement that has been made after Britain has left the European Union, so it has been ensured that the ships sailing between England and Denmark, for example, can still drive away with this scheme. We support that too. Then there is the third point, which is about better conditions for the use of the reimbursement system for sand-suckers. It is important that you bring the history with you, because it was only a few years ago, in 2019, as I remember, that the conditions for the exact same industry were deteriorating. At the time, the industry warned, and the Danish People's Party did so, and both were opposed to doing so, because it created worse conditions for Danish ships than it did for ships registered in, for example. The Netherlands, for the Netherlands, had a more relaxed regime and they remained within EU rules. So even then, we pointed out that it was a little strange to see a need to degrade the Danish part when the Dutch were, after all, within the rules. Even then, it was said that it would cause a huge competitive disadvantage for Danish ships, which would cost jobs. At that time it was then rejected both by the government, but, as such, by a large majority in the Danish Parliament, we actually have amendments tabled. 10, specifically where only New Citizens voted in favour of the amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party. The rest of the Folketing voted against. Now you have come to different thoughts, and that is, in fact, positive enough. Now it has been agreed that it is untenable that there are more relaxed rules in other EU countries than there are in Denmark, and that is why, funny enough, we want to roll back to what we actually proposed just a few years ago and, as the industry itself pointed out, but better late than never. After all, however, I think it is a pity for the industry that we should have to go through these years with less competition rules than there have been in other EU countries. So, of course, we support coming back to what we ourselves fought for in 2019 and are pleased that the government has, after all, also agreed that it was a mistake to do so then. Funny enough, the draft law says that it was never really the intention of the government to reduce the conditions of this industry, even though the industry itself said that it was doing so. Now it has been found that what we did at the time, what was proposed, was not perhaps the best thing, so it is positive enough. Then there is one last element in the bill, which is a change in the list of countries that are subject to defensive measures. I think more is known as blacklist countries, that is, countries that are attractive to place their money in or to have a business in to avoid paying tax. There are some changes on that list. There are some countries that are going off and some that are going on, and we support that as well. It is not really a list administered by us, but I think it is good that it is there. So we support that part. So, overall, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119124803	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then it's sir. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119124813	Thank you. The bill we are discussing here is a bit of a good thing from the sea proposal. But it is not only good from the sea that lies in it; it also contains good and necessary tightenings of Danish tax legislation at sea. The SF warmly supports them. And then it contains dubious measures that give rise to mining on the seabed and improve conditions for countries with problematic tax conditions. At the good end of the spectrum, we have some minor changes to the seaman's allowance scheme that ensure that the scheme can continue in line with current EU legislation and ensure that it can still receive State aid from the Commission. We also have an adaptation of seafarer tax legislation that guarantees tax rights to British citizens in a reality where Britain is no longer part of the European Union. Both proposals reflect fine and necessary legislative changes, which the SF would like to add to the vote. In the less good department we have a change of law that increases the deduction to sandsuckers by about 20 million. kr. a year, and we look critically at that in the SF. First of all, mining on the seabed is a very little sustainable industry, which we in the SF do not want to gild more than most necessary. Especially not when Denmark is very far from achieving the stated objective of 10 per cent. of our sea area to strictly protected nature. Secondly, we lack real evidence that the industry is going to be hard on competition. The minister writes in the bill that it is to ensure that and now I quote that it is still attractive for sand-sucking companies to operate in Denmark, but does not mention anything about how you have come to glorify the industry with just 20 million. kr. Last but not least, it contains here all well from the sea-suggestions some updates of Denmark's sanctions against countries on the EU tax havens. The EU considers that several countries have now simply put such good emphasis on tax havens that they should off the blacklist, but in the SF we believe that the EU's blacklist is too short and not too long. We also believe that we need to do more and not less in Denmark to take action against tax havens in general. It is easy to say that today's debate on this pile of proposals may not be the most relevant debate if we are going to discuss the whole of Denmark's action against tax havens, but when you take countries off the tax havens without at the same time making a plan for how we can take up the fight against tax havens in general, so that at least one more point about the bill that makes SF have a little difficulty seeing ourselves in it. We are still a little unanswered about what we intend to vote on at the third reading, but we are looking forward to further negotiations on the legislative proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119125045	Thank you. There is no brief comment to Mr. Carl Valentin, so the next rapporteur is Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119125059	The Enhedslisten has it. I think it is known that with all the state aid that is going on in the shipping industry, it is very tight. No less than four schemes are involved. There is the DIS scheme, the tonnage tax, the seaman's allowance, which we are dealing with here or at least part of it and the refund scheme for sandsuckers. It is four schemes which must hold hands under an industry which we actually think is doing very well in advance. We are surprised that an industry which generally serves well must be supported to such an extent by taxpayers in this country. The DIS scheme alone and the tonnage tax alone cost the Danish State 2 billion. kr. per year in State aid. In our opinion, it will be quite grotesque when we look at the profits that shipping companies face this year and next year and perhaps also in the years to come. Færsk has just announced that they have a profit for the third quarter of this year... for just one quarter..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... kr. after tax, and that you have an expected profit of over 100 billion. kr., probably near 120, 150 billion. DKK, for the whole We think it is crazy that we continue to maintain such extensive state aid for an industry that earns so well. Looking at the legislative proposal itself, we can indeed support the demand that seafarers have the nationality of an EU or EEA country. It is clear that this means that the employment of the passenger ships in question, which is of course the case, will be directed towards seafarers from these countries, including Denmark. That makes sense. It is also reasonable to equate EU and EEA ports with the seafarer allowance. As a consequence, those who sail on the Norwegian route will no longer be able to obtain the great seaman's allowance, and everything else equal means less state aid. However, as the comments also state, it is a small amount that is not significant. We also think it is good that UK citizens are treated in the same way as nationals of EU countries. So far, so good. What we do not like, however, is that the tightening-up of the reimbursement system for sand-suckers, which has been adopted in the past, is now being rolled back on demand from the European Union, and I very much agree with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party that this is a fun game back and forth, so at one point it is the European Union's demands that apply, and then at the other time it is still possible to do so. The amount of the refund amounted to 30 million in 2020. DKK, and for comparison it was in 2019 60 million. kr. Of course, it is believed that the amount is influenced by corona, i.e. the fewer activities resulting from corona, but no one should tell me that amounts of that amount, whether it be 30 million. kr. or 60 million kr. or, for that matter, a little more, is crucial for competitiveness in relation to foreign shipping companies in this area, i.e. with regard to dredging. Finally, with regard to the issue of the blacklist and to putting Trinidad and Tobago on the blacklist, we believe that the abolition of the double taxation agreement with the country concerned and, at the same time, the removal of three other countries, we do not have much comment on that. We already think it is not unknown that the EU's blacklist with regard to tax havens is a joke. In other words, none of the major tax havens on this list, and certainly not Ireland, the Netherlands, Malta among the EU Member States and Switzerland in Europe, appear on this list. And as long as you do not have the really big tax havens, then you can take Trinidad and Tobago with you; I think that is probably reasonable enough. I am not so much aware of how many people use tax havens in Trinidad and Tobago, as are the countries that are being removed. I also think that we need a long, far more comprehensive and broad discussion and analysis of action against tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119125550	Thank you. There is no brief comment to Mr. Henning Hylllested. And then we've reached the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119125609	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the positive reception of the bill. As has already been pointed out, a large part of the legislative proposal deals with some of the specific tax rules that apply to seafarers and shipping companies. It is well known that the maritime sector is in fierce international competition, and this is also the reason why a number of countries, including Denmark, have chosen to introduce special tax rules for shipping companies. The economic framework imposed by the rules is crucial for the thousands of jobs that exist in shipping companies on a daily basis. It is crucial for Denmark to be an attractive country also for shipping companies to operate in and hopefully create more jobs in. We therefore place great importance on the part of the government that the Danish business community naturally has good framework conditions, and when things are going well for our companies, yes, the reality is that it is going well for Denmark as well. That is why the aim of the draft law is first and foremost to ensure that some of the aid schemes I mentioned earlier, which involve State aid to the maritime sector, can be maintained and designed in the best possible way, in popular terms. Because it is precisely the case that EU law sets a framework in relation to what it is all about here, that is to say, state aid. Therefore, the Commission must also approve the State aid schemes as a starting point. In this context, we therefore find that we need to balance the need for support for the industry with the demands that the Commission can make on the design of the schemes. The existing approval of the seafarers' allowance scheme will then expire at the end of the year. In the context of recycling, the Commission has set out certain conditions for the re-approval of the seaman's allowance. The overall purpose of this part of the bill, which deals with the seaman's allowance, is then to ensure that the scheme complies with EU law and thus the rules on the seaman's allowance can be extended to 2031. These are relatively limited adjustments, and it is the government's clear view that it is better to continue the system of these changes than the alternative, which means that there would then be no seaman's allowance at all. The practice of adjusting aid schemes in the light of the European Commission's demands is not new either. Two years ago, I stood here in the chair and presented a legislative proposal with a number of amendments which reduce aid under the reimbursement scheme for sand-suckers, which, as I said, is also part of the bill and, as one could hear at the time, it was obviously not a proposal that was popular with the industry. Nor was it a proposal that the government itself wanted, and that is why I promised at the time that I would look into ways of improving the scheme. That is why I am pleased to be here today, when we are talking about a new proposal to bring the aid back to a level similar to that of the previous one. This must be done by increasing the rate of reimbursement, by changing the rules governing which maritime transport activities are eligible for reimbursement and by introducing a more lenient interpretation of the so-called 50-percent requirement. A great deal of work has been done, it may be said, ahead of the actual shape of the changes. And although the amendments have not yet been approved by the European Commission, it is expected that the amendments will be acceptable. I stand by that and that is what will be worked for. It is my hope that the changes here will help not only to maintain but also to attract sand-sucking vessels under the Danish flag, and this will help to create growth and secure jobs for shipping companies and associated industries. The last element of the draft law then concerns the tax sanctions, i.e. the so-called defensive measures, which they are also referred to as having been introduced earlier this year against the countries on the EU blacklist of tax havens. These are changes in which countries will then be subject to these tax sanctions. At the beginning of October, there has been a review of the EU blacklist, in which, as I said, three countries have been removed from the list, among others. Seychelles and the three countries have been removed from the blacklist because they have made progress in implementing the OECD standard for information exchange, which is at the heart of this. As they no longer appear on the blacklist, the defensive measures must, of course, no longer apply, and this is ensured by the legislative proposal. Since the introduction of these defensive measures, Denmark has also been encouraged to repeal our double taxation agreement with Trinidad and Tobago because it appears on the EU blacklist. Now that the agreement has been repealed, the defensive measures can also be introduced against Trinidad and Tobago. After all, the changes must not only ensure that the defensive measures against tax havens, which are very important instruments in the fight against the countries on the EU blacklist, include those countries which actually appear on the blacklist. There remains only to say thank you for a good debate. These are important issues which concern both Danish employment, Danish jobs and better joint action towards countries that we consider to be, for example, tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130205	The debate is not quite over. Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130210	Does the Minister really think that an amount of 60 million? kr., which was the refund amount for sandsuckers in 2019, has, as the Minister himself said, decisive
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130239	It may well have done so, but it cannot be rejected. These are, of course, the overall conditions of competition that every industry looks at when it comes to investing. However, it cannot be denied that it will have a decisive impact on individual investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130252	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130255	No, but my point is, of course, this is state aid, right? Here we are granting state aid to an industry, the shipping industry, which, in my opinion, does not need to do so to put it bluntly. We disagree on that, I know that, but we are also granting state aid on a scale which, in my view, does not have the decisive importance, as the tax minister claims. Well, that's my point. Why the hell do we have to keep doing that, now that's what we're talking about? In other words, it is so minimal that it is not essential for the location of a company's activities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130342	I guess it's hard to say as categorically as sir. Henning Hyllested does it. But I think it has to be said that for competitive industries it may be on the margin, it will be decided whether to invest, whether to maintain jobs in Denmark. If you ask some of the companies in this industry, I think that's one of the decisive things they're looking at the margin. So what should they do to maintain their jobs in Denmark? And I guess it could be this, like it might be other... I'll admit it. That is why it is an overall assessment. And the government's assessment is that this can be crucial, which is why we have, of course, worked and fought for what I said in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130420	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130440	The debate is open. Sir. Alexander Grandt, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130453	Thank you for the floor, President. The third and last legislative proposal in the field of taxation, which we are discussing here today, is also of a technical nature. Overall, it is about ensuring more flexible rules for changes to pension payments, and here there is a need for it to be easier, because right now it may be a long, resource-intensive process when errors need to be corrected so that a pension payment ends in the right place. For this reason, it is proposed, inter alia, that mispayment should be possible within three years without the need for approval from the tax administration, and that this year's pension payments should be able to be transferred to other pension institutions without tax consequences. With these changes, both pension institutions, pension savers and tax authorities can look forward to making this easier. Another key element of this bill relates to something else, namely that the Treasury has received a so-called early warning from the tax administration. This is due to the fact that there has been a gap in the rules governing the investment of pension funds. The hole provides an unintentional opportunity to deduct the same loss of value twice by changing the principle of the income statement. Against this background, it is proposed to close the gap and it is proposed that the effect should apply from the date of submission, which was Wednesday last week. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe it is essential to respond quickly to this, so that we stop the rules from being used unintentionally. A third element of the bill calls for a smooth phasing-in of the forthcoming ban on the placement of unlisted shares in child savings and self-retirement accounts. Finally, the last element of the draft law must ensure correct taxation of amounts reimbursed to pension institutions, for example. in the form of a discount on investment costs. As I started with, it's a quite technical bill. It is also a legislative proposal which consists of the second series of different elements with different objectives, but common to all of them is that they contribute to ensuring more robust and flexible rules on pension taxation. At the same time, they contribute to ensuring that tax rules cannot be used in contravention of the intention. This is therefore a, albeit very important, legislative proposal, which the Social Democrats naturally support. Once again, the radical rapporteur welcomes the fact that so does the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130718	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130729	Thank you to the President and thank you for the floor. As the Socialist rapporteur said, the draft law sets in motion a series of measures to strengthen the tax rules so that they also comply with the intention in practice and so that it is not possible to make use of a gap in the rules, as has been the case with the rules on pension funds' investments in, for example, the United Kingdom. wind farms through tax transparency units. The hole has provided an unintentional opportunity to deduct the same loss of value twice by changing the principle of the income statement. Trust in the tax system is crucial, and it is therefore important to adapt on a regular basis any rules that may appear unclear or inappropriate. This also applies to the bill's part on correction of misreports to pension schemes, which will make it easier and quicker for citizens to correct erroneous pension payments. The same applies to the proposal to make it easier and quicker for citizens to obtain pension payments based on the most appropriate pension schemes for them. Fewer burdens, faster and more flexible workflows play well with a more robust tax law in this proposal, which the Left can therefore support.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130909	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we can move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119130923	The proposal has been examined by the two previous rapporteurs, so I shall try to make it a little shorter. There are, after all, several different elements in the proposal. One is that there must be better opportunities to correct errors which can now be corrected within three years if you move the money to another pension institution or other. That's quite reasonable. Then, like the other, there is a general point in what we usually support, and that is that there will be these early warnings where there may be a risk of a tax gap being created and people can abuse it. We support that too. But I would also like to say, as I said before, that I find it strange that a good Danish expression is not used as an early warning. Why do you need an English expression? One can understand it if it is a new expression that is invented and one does not have a Danish word that covers it, but the expression early warning can be used, and that is something one understands. So why is this not done consistently? Why should there be an English word in Danish legislation called early warning? I think it seems weird. It's a small thing, of course, but couldn't you try to find Danish expressions of these things in Danish legislation? I think that would be appropriate. Then there are a lot of other technical adjustments in the bill. In fact, I do not really have any comments to make about them, and I must be honest and admit that it is also because it is extremely complicated. It is not very easy to see through as a parliamentarian, so it is a good thing that there are some consultation answers that can be relied on. At any rate, I have spent a great deal on this matter and, as I read it, it does not seem that there are any major problems in it. That is why I can say with peace of mind that I can support this bill. But a reflection could also be that there might well be a simplification potential in this area. Because you make a bill that simply adjusts some technical things, and then virtually no one can read and understand it. Perhaps you could consider making it a little simpler in the future. But the Danish People's Party can support it here, however, with the remark that I think it might be better to change it to early warning rather than write early warning.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119131118	I'd like to say to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, that it is actually the case that if you use English expressions from the Parliament's platform, they must be translated into Danish, which was also done. So thank you for that. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119131137	Thank you. In the SF, overall, we are very satisfied with the content of the proposal here. The bill mainly contains a lot of very technical changes to the law, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also said. It is some who must ensure that the taxation of pension funds actually takes place as intended by the law. When the tax authorities are given the opportunity to better correct errors in payments and to generally make things more efficient and smart, SF can only be too. In the SF we also note a slightly more substantial change, which closes a gap that until now has enabled pension funds with dollar signs in their eyes to invest equally legally creatively in wind turbines in a certain way and then could deduct a depreciation from tax not once but twice. Of course, that was never the intention of the law. That is why we are pleased that the gap in legislation is being closed. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119131230	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119131243	Well, then I'm back in my position as a standin for our tax rapporteur, Rune Lund. Okay, that means okay: Enhedslisten is positive with the bill, it says here. Our reading of the elements of the bill is that there are a number of technical changes, and this has also been extensively explained as well as the closure of tax gaps. It makes sense, Rune's written to me what's needed. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119131313	In doing so, we also thank the rapporteur, which means that it is now the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119131325	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for receiving this proposal. We'll figure out how to get written early warning in the correct way. One could write the Danish translation in parentheses afterwards. Perhaps that could be the broad compromise on such a Friday afternoon. I think we're trying to work with the Treasury. We've had bigger challenges, so I think we can handle this, too. But thank you for the inspiration, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, because it is quite true that that is what this is all about, that is, an early warning, which we have traditionally been able to handle widely. And I'm glad I can hear that we can do it again. So we'll find out. I admit, of course, that this bill is very comprehensive, and it is also very, very technical. But it is clear, as has also been shown, that the view is, of course, that all the elements are quite well founded. I also think it is worth noting, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær said that when you look through the consultation answers to the bill, it is relatively few comments that have been made. This is probably also due to the fact that the Ministry of Taxation has in fact been in very, very close dialogue with the pension industry on many of the key elements of the proposal. But it is clear that it will of course be difficult to comment on all the elements of the proposal from here and in the time I have, and we will of course be happy to assist there on any technical issues in the committee's proceedings. On the whole, however, I can say that the various amendments to the draft law do, of course, have different objectives. On a key point, the draft law contributes to much more flexible rules for changes in pension payments. As the rules are now, there can be a long time and a lot of resources spent before mistakes can actually be corrected, so that pension payments, popularly speaking, land in the right place. As I said, the bill makes it much easier to make these changes. This provides both resource savings for pension institutions, for the individual pension saver and, of course, also for the tax administration. In addition, the bill will close a gap in the rules on pension funds' investments through so-called transparent entities... it may be a limited partnership. The hole has made it possible for the same loss of value to be deducted twice, which, of course, has never been the intention. And then the bill will contribute to a smooth phasing-in of the upcoming ban by the FSA against placing unlisted shares in child savings and on self-retirement accounts. Finally, fair taxation of amounts reimbursed to pension institutions by asset managers is ensured, for example: in the form of a discount on investment costs. Against this background, I shall confine myself to making a few further comments on a single part of the legislative proposal's amendments. This is the change which must close a gap in the rules on pension funds' investments through tax transparency units, and which I mentioned briefly earlier. The background, as I have said, is an early warning, an early warning, from the tax administration, which has found that pension institutions can use a gap in the rules to obtain double deductions by changing the method of inventory. There is no doubt that it is both of great concern to the government, but of course also traditionally a broad majority in the Folketing strongly concerned that such gaps should be quickly and effectively closed. Therefore, the hole closure is proposed to have effect as early as the date of submission, i.e. on Wednesday last week, so pension institutions that have exploited the tax gap cannot avoid the intended tightening by selling the assets, while the Folketing then deals with the bill. For the same reason, this part of the draft law is also only published in public consultation when the draft law was tabled. First of all, the proposal means that the unintended tax consequences of this change of method cannot be exploited in the future. In addition, a transitional rule is also proposed for those pension institutions which already have this transitional rule, inter alia, that the future disposal of the assets in question triggers taxation of the unintended and untaxed advantage which the institution obtained at the time of the change of method. The government considers this only right and proper, that is to say, it is not possible to obtain deductions for the same loss twice by changing the method. That is why the attitude of the government is also that it cannot, moreover, have a legitimate expectation of having a right to do so. To conclude, of course, I would like to thank you for the debate here today. Admittedly, this is a very comprehensive proposal, with many technical changes as well, but we are usually able to deal with this in committee, and I hope we can do so again. And, of course, I make myself available to answer questions on that occasion in the parliamentary committee. So thank you for the positive receipt of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119131859	We'll thank the tax minister. There are no brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119131922	For this election the following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 98 members: Social Democracy, Socialist People's Party, Radical Left, Enhedslisten, Free Green, Alternative, Inuit Ataqatigiit, Siumut and Javnaðarflokkurin a group of 80 members: Left, Danish People's Party, Conservative People's Party, New Civil, Liberal Alliance, Christian Democrats, Sambandsflokkurin, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Naser Khader (UFG), Inger Nøjberg (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG). The groups have appointed the following members and alternates: Henrik Møller (S) 2. Karsten Hønge (SF) 3. Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) 4. Jette Gottlieb (EL) 5. Troels Lund Poulsen (V) 6. Hans Andersen (V) 7. Bent Bøgsted (DF) 8. Niels Flemming Hansen (KF) Deputys: 1. Troels Ravn (S) 2. Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) 3. Martin Lidegaard (RV) 4. Henning Hyllested (EL) 5. Karsten Lauritzen (V) 6. Torsten Schack Pedersen (V) 7. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) 8. Per Larsen (KF) Notice of who has been chosen according to the group's recommendation will be included in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. above). The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20211119132030	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 23 November 2021 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website and will also refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
