ParlaMint-DK_20211110130002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews, and on the basis of the many submissions I shall not read out the titles: Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs (Kaare Dybvad Bek): Bill no. L 58 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Free Commune Networks. Minister for Education and Research (Jesper Petersen): Bill L no. 59 (Proposal for a law amending the law on vocational education and training. Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 60 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the supply of heat, the Law on the tax of natural gas, urban gas, etc., the Law on the tax of coal, lignite and coke, etc.) Law on energy taxes on petroleum products, etc. Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 61 (Proposal for a law amending the law on temporary measures in the field of children's education and folk high school and for the free public awareness activities to prevent and remedy covid-19. Bill No. L 68 (Proposal for a law amending the law on institutions for general upper secondary education and adult education, etc., the law on upper secondary education, the law on private institutions for upper secondary education and the law on institutions for vocational training. Bill No. L 69 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law amending the Law on Employers' Educational Contributions, the Law on Allowances and Allowances for Carriage by Participation in Adult and Continuing Vocational Training and the Law on State Adult Training Support, the Law amending the Law on Labour Market Training, etc., the Law on Preparatory Adult Education and Distinct Education for Adults, the Law on Employers' Educational Contributions, the Law on Allowances and Allowances for Carriage by Participation in Adult and Continuing Vocational Training, and various other laws and laws on Preparatory Adult Education and Word-Blind Education for Adults. Transport Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. L 62 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the carriage of goods, the law on bus services and the law on the posting of employees, etc.) Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly (Astrid Krag): Bill No. L 63 (Proposal for a law amending the law on legal certainty and administration in the social and health fields. Bill No. L 64 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Security and the Law on Social Services. Bill No. L 65 (Proposal for a law amending the law on children, the law on names and various other laws. Minister for Employment (Mattia Tesfaye, fg.): Bill No. L 66 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Employment and the Law on Working Conditions. Bill No. L 67 (Proposal for a law amending the Act on active employment, the Law on sickness benefits, and various other laws. Minister for Economic Affairs (Simon Kollerup): Bill No. L 70 (Proposal for a law amending the law on storms and storms. Bill No. L 71 (Proposal for a law amending the Law of the Faroe Islands on capital requirements and prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms). Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 72 (Proposal for a Law amending the law on remuneration, pensions, etc.) for ministers. Bill No. L 73 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Income Register, the Tax Reporting Act and the Tax Control Act. Bill No L 74 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Seafarer Taxation and the Law on Equations). to EU law, better conditions for the application of the reimbursement scheme for dredgers and amendment of the list of countries subject to defensive measures) and to Bill No. L 75 (Proposal for a Law amending the Pension Taxation Act, the Pension Return Tax Act and various other laws. the pension tax law and the pension return tax law). Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill No. L 76 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Enforcement of Punishment, etc.) Bill No. L 77 (Proposal for a law amending the Code of Procedure, the Penal Code and the Criminal Code. Bill No. L 78 (Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Procedure and the Law on the Passport of Danish Nationals, etc.) Sikandar Siddique (FG) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 36 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the conversion of Danish exit centres into general residence centres). Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 38 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the additional income of mayors and regional presidents from administrative and inter-communal duties). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Epidemic Committee has presented: Report on the period for classification of covid-19 as a social-critical disease. 1. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. The Minister for Justice (Nick Hækkerup) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide Parliament with a written statement on the state of play of the Danish police in relation to Europol. 7. Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Friday 19 November 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110130149	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 11 November 2021. The first to speak in order to justify the question is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110130225	Thank you for the floor, President. We are once again faced with a matter that expires on the illegal government's decision to put an end to all the mink in the country and de facto wipe out an entire profession. In November 2020, we witnessed an attack on unbiased mink growers, where both the police, the army, the Food Authority and other authorities threatened mink farmers to kill their healthy mink without legal basis in any law. At the same time, the government closed seven municipalities of North Jutland. However, they were subsequently reopened after 14 days when it came to light quite quickly that the assessment of the threat of a new Wuhan in North Jutland was completely misplaced. The so-called cluster-5 was extinct approx. Seven weeks before the shutdown and hadn't been seen since. The whole process has been disastrous and not worthy of democracy. For this reason, the Folketing has also set up a committee of inquiry which is responsible for reversing each stone in order to be able to place responsibility for the illegal decision. For a very long time now, we have heard various ministers claim that, out of respect for the work of the Commission, they will not answer questions about the mink case. This then raises the question: does the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's staff show respect for the investigation commission's work when you start deleting text messages when the investigating commission has expressly requested that all relevant material be presented? We know it comes from the Prime Minister's own mouth that text messages began to be deleted in the summer of 2020. Could it coincide with the fact that journalists began to apply for access to all available material, including text message correspondence? The reason for deleting the text messages should probably be security. The question, then, is whether it was for the sake of the security of the empire or whether it was to ensure that no information came to the investigating commission and the press which could be inappropriate for Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110130434	Thank you for the reasons for the question. And then it is the Minister of Justice for answering the question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110130458	I had to get my glasses so I can see you. Thank you for the floor. And thank you for the question to which I really think I can respond relatively briefly. As to whether the government will try to restore the deleted text messages, I do not think it will surprise anyone in this Chamber that the answer is yes. On 29 October, the Ministry of Justice informed that, in agreement with the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry has asked the police technicians for assistance to restore text messages of possible relevance to the Mink Commission's investigation of the telephones in the Ministry of Justice and the Prime Minister's Office, which have been prepared to automatically delete text messages after a certain period of time. During the last week, the Ministry of Justice has regularly entrusted the relevant units to the police technicians; these include: about phones and iPads. Any recreated text messages will be delivered to the individual persons. Where appropriate, they will then have to identify any text messages relevant to the Commission investigation and such text messages will then be handed over to the Commission. Subsequently, the Commission may convene a meeting of selected persons in order to verify the existence of additional text messages which, in the Commission's view, are relevant. This procedure has been agreed with the Mink Commission on 8 November of this year and it is fully in line with the general approach which, in agreement with the Commission, has been followed in relation to the transmission of text messages as has already been done. That is the answer to the first question. Before I move on to the second question, however, I would also like to remind you of the opening remarks that we are talking about. The Danish Parliament, with the full support of the government, has set up a committee of inquiry to investigate the case of the killing of all minks. This is not a police investigation. No one has been accused or accused, and for good reason the Commission is not a court of law. The government has taken the extraordinary step of asking police experts to help try to recreate material that may be relevant to the Commission's investigation. This has been done on the basis of the consent of the persons whose equipment is being examined. I do not yet know the result of the police's efforts to restore the text messages, but I personally very much hope that it will succeed, because it is only in the interest of the government that the Mink Commission should receive any relevant text messages. It is in the general interest of the government that the Commission should be given the best possible basis for its investigation. The government has nothing to hide in this case or in other cases. So on the second question: has the government made contact with the telecommunications companies, or will the government do so? In fact, I think there is reason to start by getting the facts straight, not least because we are currently spending a lot of time discussing logging and logging. See, it is the case that when the telecommunications companies log information, they do not log the contents of the information; on the other hand, the companies log the information. information on which telephone numbers have been in contact and when. So such information about the logged information would not be able to come up with what might have been said, but who has spoken or texted. Furthermore, the Ministry of Justice has already informed Parliament on 3 November that the Ministry is aware that on 25 October the Mink Commission asked the TDC, which is the State's telecommunications provider, to provide the material on the text message correspondence of specific employees for the purposes of the Commission's investigation. Already, therefore, the answer is no because, as the circumstances now stand, the information will be provided to the Commission. In conclusion, I would just like to reiterate that the government is fully cooperating with the Mink Commission, and the Ministry of Justice has explained this in detail in a written contribution to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 21 from the Parliamentary Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which was sent to the Folketing yesterday, that is to say on Tuesday. I myself had the opportunity to explain some of the progress at a press conference last week, and I will not tire either you in the Chamber or the audience with a review. Finally, I would like to remind you that the investigating commission is an independent authority which decides for itself how it will organise its investigation. Many people have expressed an opinion on how the Commission should organise its investigation, but would it not be better to let the Commission decide? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131009	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Now there is one brief comment from the rapporteurs, and the first one to ask for it is Mr Beazley. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131017	I asked the Justice Department a question the other day about what would happen if these texts were recreated. And there I understand that the people who deleted the texts, the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's inner counsellors decide for themselves which of the recreated texts are to be handed over to the Commission. It's almost like Monty Python. It's a joke. In addition to the government and perhaps a few support parties, no one believes in what both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice say is going to cooperate fully with the Commission. The whole history shows you're working against the commission. So I really want to hear the Minister for Justice, if you can't see the disadvantage of the fact that you can sort out what text messages the Commission gets, also for your own sakes, because otherwise suspicion will continue to be there, because then there will always be a suspicion to you, in case the text messages are recreated, namely the suspicion that only the texts have been delivered to the Commission, which was considered advantageous to you. Shouldn't we have changed that practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131121	The question is, in fact, on a premise of wanting to hide something, which is not the case. But if we put this aside, this is the procedure that has been agreed with the Commission, in other words, how the Commission thinks this should be dealt with. It was the first time that text messages have been searched so widely, so you had to figure out how to do it. And one of the problems, of course, is that text messages are not stored centrally, and that is why you should find out whether the commission should have all the text messages printed and sit and sort in them, including all private information and everything else that is irrelevant, or is it really better that we say that those who have sent the text messages can assess what is relevant to this investigation and then send them out? Does that give you an opportunity to cheat? Yeah, well, it does if you were there where you wanted to hide something. How do we guard against it? Yes, on the one hand we would like the matter to be reported because our conscience is clear as snow, on the other hand it has been agreed with the Commission that the Commission can check by saying that they would like to see it all, if they say that it or it has not given it all, and that way they can then check that it is as it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131235	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131236	The background to this mistrust that we have is something the government itself has created. The Iranian Commission was established by a majority outside the government, and the government then joined when it could see that there was a majority against the government. In April, the Commission of the European Communities asks that all texts be made available to the extent that the Commission of the French Republic needs them, and it is only here yesterday that the automatic deletion of text messages by the Prime Minister's Office is stopped. So there are signs in the sun and moon that it has been a little difficult for the Commission of the French Republic. Now, in relation to the question being asked, does the Minister of Justice point out that you can select the text messages you want to deliver yourself and that it has been agreed with the Granskningskommissionen, so just to make it clear whether there is a willingness to cooperate or not: can the Minister of Justice confirm that, in the light of the debate that has taken place, if the Granskningskommissionen wishes to have all sorts of recreated text messages handed down, so that they themselves assess what is relevant or not, will of course the government arrange to hand over all texts to the Granskningskommissionen?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131341	It's actually part of the deal. I can't remember if the commission says they're gonna do it or if they say they can do it. If they've got my text messages, those that are relevant, and then they think it might be interesting if Nick has anything more, and then they can ask for the whole stack, and then they'll have the whole stack of my text messages see if I should have sorted it in an inappropriate way. It is, of course, sorted according to the criteria there are. Secondly, if it is not too bad that it is only now being put into effect to stop deleting text messages, would it not have made any difference, when the commission is set up at the end of April, if the deletion of text messages was stopped there for the period under investigation? For the period under investigation is, of course, from 1 April to 31 December, and 30 days after that, the text messages will have been deleted, so it is therefore not relevant at that time whether or not to stop the deletion. There may be other reasons to do so, but in relation to the basis on which the Commission has to do its work, it is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131439	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131440	Thank you. I'm actually gonna keep going where I left off. In other words, does the Minister of Justice believe that the Prime Minister's Office has shown respect for the investigation commission when, on the one hand, it takes so long to respond to the requests received and, on the other hand, it continues to delete text messages during that period, even though it has been expressly asked to hand over all the material?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131508	In fact, I think we have endeavoured, in dialogue with the Commission, to ensure that all the relevant material is present for the Commission. The Prime Minister's Office has also handed over quite a lot of material to the Commission, so that the Commission has a basis for carrying out its work, just as we are a number of people who have to enter and be questioned in the Commission, where there will also be an opportunity to follow up on the information that has been obtained in writing from e-mails or any other written material that may be available. So I think we are actually in a situation where it can be said that there will be a fully adequate basis for dealing with what is the Commission's task.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131552	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131553	There are probably some Danes out there wondering that it is now the people who have initially deleted text messages and subsequently have been 132 days to tell the Commission that they were deleted, have subsequently not responded to the Commission's request to re-impose the text messages, and have also continued to delete the texts after the Commission has asked them to stop the texting to choose which text messages are to be delivered to the Commission. This gives us a clear suspicion that these people could continue their counter-working style towards the Commission and thus not hand over everything that is relevant. I know, of course, that the Minister for Justice believes that monitoring provides freedom, and that is why we bourgeois parties have brought a letter of liberty to the Minister today, namely a text of adoption that the government should hand over all the recreated texts to the Commission. Then the Commission can assess whether they are relevant. It's a little more surveillance, but it's also a little more freedom. So my question is: will the Minister not accept the letter of liberty of the bourgeois parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131654	This is an interesting discussion. What I have said is that security is a prerequisite for freedom. And some of the things that provide security are when we do surveillance, for example. when it is possible for young women to choose which way they will go home from the city at night because they do not have to worry because they know that some people are watching and watching that they are not being beaten and attacked and that they are not being abused. It is, of course, contrary to your concept of freedom, which is only a formal concept of freedom and not a real concept of freedom. However, I believe that the discussion is on the verge of what is the discussion today. But I want it very, very much, because I think it's super interesting. With regard to the second, it is again on the premise that there are probably some who want to hide something. We don't want to hide anything. We would like to give the Commission the best possible working conditions at all. As far as the 132 days are concerned, it is the case that during those days, material is being organized and handed out and found out what material it is and how it is to be handed out. It is not the case that there is the Commission, and then there is the government; there is close cooperation to ensure that this work is as good as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131802	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131803	So, so far, the whole discussion has been about whether the deletion has been correct in practice, in terms of legislation. We in the Free Greens would like to use our comment to ask the Minister quite in principle, and I think there are a lot of Danes out there who are thinking what I am now going to ask the Minister: does the Minister think that a commission is set up to investigate this scandal? We know that much of the communication has been done by texting, and then the Prime Minister chooses to delete text messages. All right, that fits with practice; fine, that fits with legislation. However, does the Minister consider that it is common sense, that it is an expression of openness and of honesty, that in such a situation a person chooses to delete text messages?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110131858	But the question is going to be counter-productive, because what is happening is that we are in a situation where the deletions on the telephones have taken place before the commission is set up. On the second question, the principle, I would say: I think we should create new rules on how to deal with text messages as well. We must note that here there is a Commission that has said more than previous Commissions that we have seen: this is a relevant place to look for information, and we would also like to see that. To this we have said: okay, so let us make rules on how to do it forward, so that we are sure that it works properly. That is why, of course, there is a core of truth in the question. We need to find out how to do this, and there we will certainly have to weigh up some of the considerations we have weighed down, for example. has made new rules on deletion of e-mails, that is to say this, on the one hand, with regard to being able to get the material and, on the other hand, to be able to secure some of the data-ethical principles, which I know the author's party in other contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132002	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132004	Thank you. Well, then, let's try to stay a little bit close to it about what practice should be in the future. I should just like to ask whether the Minister agrees that text messages relating to a case should in future be stored, so that it will also be possible subsequently to verify whether it is something that has been subject to journalism or not, i.e. that all text messages will subsequently be stored and stored on an external device, so that you will be able to go back precisely if a commission should be set up, for example. So on the second question. Whatever one thinks about what may be the issues of guilt and everything else, it is going to sow a bunch of doubts about confidence in the whole democracy and the democratic system. And the whole prerequisite for restoring that trust is, after all, about openness. So I would just like to ask whether the government is also prepared that this should have implications for our public law, so that we can ensure greater transparency in relation to the public law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132110	In relation to the first part, I think we should bear in mind that this is only a matter of non-journalising text messages, because for good reasons, journaling text messages have been recorded and thus put on the case. But that does not change the interesting aspect of the question, which I think has both practical and fundamental elements. The practical thing first: it has to be done, and I'm sure it can be done, I just can't see through it, but people who know more about it than I do can be guaranteed some kind of central storage so you can recover the text messages if that's what you want. In relation to the principle, I think we are moving in the direction of saying that we must find some way to ensure that any material that may be relevant is not lost. Whether it means saving all text messages or text messages, and how to select them, and whether you can select it technically, or whatever, I don't know. This is some of the work that we need to get going.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132211	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132212	Thank you very much. It should not be a secret that we in the Radical Left did not consider it particularly appropriate that text messages have been systematically deleted without having been stored or stored somewhere, because it gives the impression of secrecy rather than openness and transparency. After all, the deletion has taken place in the interests of security, we have had to understand, and that is why bad practices have continued until yesterday, when we were then told that the deletion had now ended. But I would like to hear the Minister for Justice's assessment of the security situation now that this systematic deletion of text messages has ended.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132258	Well, if we put ourselves on the legal basis first, it is not as it is today that there has to be a particular reason, as it is today, for deleting text messages or for not deleting text messages. It can be safe, it can also be other reasons, for example. storage space, or what do I know that does it. Both are in line with the rules as they are now. When I haven't deleted my texts myself, I think it's first of all because I was equipped with a phone by the Ministry that didn't delete text messages. If it had been set up so that the deleted text messages, I think I'd have done it too. I really don't think it's more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132334	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132336	Thank you for the floor. I must say that I am deeply concerned that the former Minister of Justice, Søren Pind, says that he has never recorded a text in his entire life and that he does not believe that other ministers have done so either. I can't tell if that's true. But it certainly calls for us to have a look at the public law and to have it arranged in a way that is also suitable for compliance. It is about having as much openness as possible and transparency as possible. That is why I would like to ask the Minister about the Public Service Act. How does the Minister feel about changing it? It is not only the rule of ministerial service, the rule of parliamentary politics, but it is also very much the general clause, i.e. Article 33 (1). 5 which has just been used to exempt documents for access to documents relating to the work of the Commission. I find that problematic. I would like to get rid of the general clause that can be used for what can be said to exempt anything from access to documents. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132440	Well, I am in dialogue with the parties of the Folketing now, including the author's party, on how we should organise the Public Service Act forward-looking. This dialogue is based on the parties which are behind the conciliation that we currently have and which are still behind it: the Conservative People's Party and the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, which are the ones behind the Public Act now. The dialogue I have with them should so much like to translate into something that can then also give a dialogue with the rest of the Folketing. The two dialogues can be taken in parallel, which is why they are also taken in parallel. Basically, I think our public law is good, but I would always like to talk and get smarter and see if there are others who think it should be done differently. However, I am nervous when some say that we must fundamentally shift the balance so that there is no longer any room for confidential political dialogue. It's one of the places where my pain limits go. But I am still in the conversation, and so far we are three parties with a relatively solid majority in the Danish Parliament at this time, which are in the public domain, as we have it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132550	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132551	Thank you. When you delete your tracks when you delete text messages, it's usually because you have something to hide. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice say the government has nothing to hide. The Prime Minister says that the reason why the Prime Minister and three employees have deleted text messages is in security. Now it is true that Barbara Bertelsen, the Prime Minister's Head of Department, was formerly Head of Department of the Minister of Justice. And the Minister for Justice has just told us that the Minister for Justice has not set his phone so that the Minister for Justice's phone deletes text messages after 30 days. So if you've got such a short moment of feeling that there's enough pure flour in this bag, they're not hiding anything, they're not deleting it to hide something, it's about security, I'm getting extra worried now. Because if it is about the security of the Prime Minister, why was it not about the security of the Minister of Justice, when it is exactly the same Head of Department who has advised the Prime Minister, that is, the same person who sat as Head of Department when the Minister of Justice was given his telephone and also for the first six months, I think, more than six months, of the time the Minister of Justice was Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132657	In fact, however, it can also be said that the fact that I did not get the good advice from the then Head of Department is an independent fact which demonstrates that the government has pure flour in its bag. Yeah, you can do that. Because if you wanted to hide it because you didn't have pure flour in the bag, that advice would of course have been uniformed for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132723	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr von der Vring. Per Larsen and it's up on the platform. It is rather complicated with these questions; we are embarking on an ordinary series of rapporteurs, but whoever starts the series of rapporteurs is the rapporteur for the questioners. Here you go, sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110132748	Thank you for that, I'm really glad. After all, we cannot escape the fact that this raises a lot of questions, and the arrow is also very much pointing towards someone who has had intentions to hide something. I've got one of them. I note that the Prime Minister's Office has apparently had a practice of switching telephones frequently, and that makes everything else just a little bit more difficult to find out what is up and down if it is so that it is not possible to say for sure who has been in possession of that phone at any given time. So I'd like to ask if it's also a practice used in the Ministry of Justice... that of switching phones. I think that is a very inappropriate point of view. Then we've also been dwelling a little bit on journaling and the fact that employees have to decide for themselves what is journaling. I noted that the Prime Minister's Head of Department at one point expressed that there was a fear that the government's life might be in danger, and the question is this: could such a situation exist, where an employee who is walking around with a fear that the government's life might be in danger, perhaps cause a text message that might not have been filed quite in the same way as would be done if the intentions of the whole set of rules on journalism were also complied with? So it also raises a lot of questions about how to move forward. I think there's a lot of learning in this. Now there are also more who have brought up the issue, that we should have looked at the public law, and there is no doubt that with the various media available, through which you can communicate, you should also have looked at the obligation to record them. But I would like to ask the Minister for Justice quite clearly: is it the case that the Ministry of Justice also has a tradition of switching telephones, and does the Minister for Justice think that it is reassuring that the employees themselves should assess the material? As others have done, I would like to call for all raw materials to be simply stored so that it is up to the authorities to assess whether the material should have been recorded or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133011	Thank you. There is just a brief comment to be made on the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133019	I wondered for a moment whether that was the rapporteur's speech, yes, that was it. I would really like to continue where I left off with the Attorney General. For the Conservative People's Party is, of course, part of the conciliation circle around the public law, and I feel that we have found a new common ground in order to demand openness, which is why I am really curious how far the Conservative People's Party will go in that debate. Will the Conservative People's Party help to abolish the ministerial service rule, the parliamentary rule and the general clause, which are, after all, the three basic paragraphs that make it difficult for us to gain insight into things today? Among other things: After all, the general clause has just been used to exempt documents relating to the mink case. So if the Conservative People's Party is involved in the three things, I am sure I have good colleagues from the left who would also like to help the Conservative People's Party achieve that openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133122	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133124	I think I have to be a little bit guilty because, as the rapporteur knows, I am not the legal rapporteur, and I am here today as a substitute for Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, who has unfortunately become ill, and therefore I am not in a position to go into further discussion. But, in principle, there is no doubt that the correspondence that is going on must, of course, be recorded so that you can subsequently find out what is up and down in a given case.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133157	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133158	So, I understand that the rapporteur is not a legal rapporteur, but perhaps I had hoped that the rapporteur would have come a little closer to the public law when it was a major debate today. But I assume that this will be my last question: the openness that is being demanded of the government here is, quite rightly, an openness that we must be able to demand from future governments, so it will be just an important point to change the public law. So I hope the Conservative People's Party will participate in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133235	But it is quite clear that there is also openness in a democracy. And there is clearly a need to be able to look after the authority and the government. So my position on this issue is, of course, as a starting point: we must ensure that the things that need to be investigated are also present, so that nothing is lost and we will always be able to have complete clarity on a matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133304	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133305	Thank you. And, of course, with all due respect for the fact that the rapporteur is a substitute, I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur does not agree with or recognises that the rules that apply today, for text messages, for journaling, are exactly the same rules that applied when some of the rapporteur's party colleagues were sitting in the ministerial offices.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133330	I know the rules haven't changed. But the short part of the length is that when there is something that needs to be recorded, you have to make sure that it is recorded. You have to have confidence that this will happen too. Therefore, there is probably a need to clarify it more, perhaps, in relation to the fact that there are no media that can be exempted from the obligation to register when it is communicated in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133357	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133358	Is it the rapporteur's view that those of the rapporteur's colleagues who have sat in the ministerial offices have recorded text messages systematically in relation to the previous or present government?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133416	According to the public debate, there is at least one minister, as I have seen it, who has indicated that he has not recorded text messages. This is not, of course, appropriate, because situations may arise where it is essential to find out how the correspondence has been in writing. And these are text messages. It is therefore also inappropriate that some people have not taken account of the fact that they should be recorded.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133442	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133443	Thank you. After all, it is absolutely crucial that we find out what has been going on around the lack of legal basis in relation to the killing of mink, and the debate we have here today is also an end of it. To this end, we have just set up a Commission to examine this progress. We have done so together. We've done a mission. We've given that to the commission. We've asked them to work on that mission. I would just like to ask whether it is also the rapporteur's view that it is quite essential that we who also keep a clear form of political arm's length to that commission, and that our main task is that the Commission should have the optimal conditions to fulfil its task. If the Commission comes and asks us for help to ensure access to information, then we assist, but in addition we do not interfere in the work of the Commission nor try to influence it politically, in terms of what we think it should come to from conclusions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133542	Now it's a special design with that investigative commission. This is not the kind of authority we know. And, of course, there is a mandate for it. As a starting point, I do not expect the Commission to be influenced by the general public debate on what people think of the act that the government has had. I certainly don't think so. It's respected people who sit on that commission. So I have no such feeling that I could in any way influence that investigative commission. After all, it is lawyers who are running according to the terms of reference that have been made, and hopefully they will not be influenced by anything from outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133630	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133631	Now it is we who have commissioned the Commission to do this task, and that is why we naturally have a special obligation not to interfere in the work of the Commission. But when you do, for example... Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw a conclusion, so as to place a point of guilt even before the Commission has finished, which is also a form of political interference. That's why I just need to hear something about it. If we are to ensure, in the same way, that the Commission has credibility and integrity in relation to its work, then it is certainly essential that we do not interfere in the work of the Commission, but rather that we assist it if it comes and asks us for help in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133714	But it is clear that if there is any reason for us to assist the Commission, then of course we must do so. However, I do not see any reason why we should tie up the public debate in relation to what has happened. I have seen that there are plenty of people who have opinions as to whether it is okay to put an entire profession to death without a legal basis. I think it is perfectly legitimate to have a position on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133742	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Per Larsen. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110133800	Thank you for the floor, thank you for the question today. After all, there are some very serious accusations that the government should try to hide something, even deliberately delete evidence, and that there is now an investigation being carried out by the police. That is just a very serious accusation against a current government, and it is only, unfortunately, accusations and serious accusations that come from colleagues in the Assembly, and the problem is that there is no team of prosecutors. Frankly, I think we are actually reaching a point where the conspiracies have begun to take precedence. The government has collaborated fully, continuously in close dialogue with the Commission, also about what is about the extradition of text messages, the Ministry of Justice, in agreement with the State Department, has even asked technicians from the police for assistance in trying to restore messages that have been deleted. This is, of course, a rather extraordinary step to take to ensure that the Commission receives all relevant material. But there is no question, there is not When the government asks the police to help with it, it is precisely because you actually want to help recreate those text messages, because it is in everyone's interest. It may even be particularly in the interest of the government that the process of killing mink is followed and fully illustrated. Let me just remind you that when we initiate such an investigation, as we agree in this case to have done, and this is the case with all the other investigations, it is based on a premise that there is also confidence that all the authorities involved will also cooperate to have this case clarified as far as possible, as far as possible, when the Folketing decides to set up a commission. This has been the case with previous Commissions and, of course, this should also be the case here. But that has not been the case here, because even before the commission started, the conclusion was written. Parties such as the Left and the Conservatives have voted in this Chamber to initiate an impeachment without having the shadow of a basis for it. This is, for me, an historic low point for what has normally been government-supporting parties. The problem is, of course, that when you act as the bourgeois parties have done in this matter, you have to mess with something absolutely central in democracy, and I think that is basically worrying. It is worrying that we are willing to put that confidence in our authorities, in our institutions, in democratic cooperation at risk, because we may be able to see a short-term gain in the polls. I am fundamentally concerned that the very polarising approach will have long-term consequences for our people's rule and for the confidence of our citizens. Because, regardless of disagreement, we have a joint responsibility for the absence of false stories, so that we do not uncritically carry firewood to the conspiracy fire. And that is not because we should not disagree, because we must, of course, let our positions be broken, but it must be done on a proper basis, and that is why we have set up a commission, in other words precisely to identify the process of killing mink. I would just like to remind you that this government, unlike previous governments, former civil governments, which have closed commissions, has actually supported the Commission, and it is indeed a commission which has just the task of clarifying and assessing the issues that have been raised. To this end, the authorities must, of course, cooperate with the Commission to supply all the material it needs. The Prime Minister's Office has, and the Ministry of Justice has provided this information several times, and you are still doing so. The Commission is still working, and that is why I really think it would be appropriate to stop cultivating groundless theories about plotts and conspiracies and let the Commission do its job, to do the work that the Folketing itself has asked it to do. Then, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that guidelines are needed for the storage of digital communications and notes that negotiations are under way on a new public law. The Danish Parliament notes that the government has exceptionally requested assistance from police technicians and that the Mink Commission has asked the TDC to provide material on SMS correspondence. • V 8). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134224	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. And I must point out that this is an urgent question and there is no more than two hours left for it. Throughout the whole series of rapporteurs, there are a number that have signed up to short remarks now and everyone can of course have the floor, but ultimately it goes beyond how many questions there are at the end. So it was just to pay attention to it. But the first person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134250	Thank you. And I will give the rapporteur so much that I could not help but sit and smile a little along the way. Because I can almost understand that this government is full because I'm in a good mood, I choose to call it comical, but otherwise it would just be tragic to say something like that. I mean, but the Mink Commission has asked that you don't delete text messages back in April anyway you keep deleting evidence. But the Mink Commission approached us in April, and 132 days passed before it was admitted that the texts were deleted, and there was pressure from the public before the police technicians were put on the case. So there are no people in their right mind who believe that the government has fully cooperated with the Mink Commission or has worked for transparency in this matter. And if you are worried about a lack of confidence in the state and polarization, then you can stop killing an entire profession illegally and then shut up like an oyster and be so closed. I don't give much for this about complaining about the tone of the debate... living with what you have committed an illegal act, you have slaughtered an entire profession; of course we are critical. My question is on something quite different. Because this is the part about deleting text messages for security reasons. I just want to know if the rapporteur can explain in his own words why it is a security challenge if you do not delete text messages.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134411-2	This isn't about the tone of the debate. This is about the fact that when you basically question whether Danish authorities are doing their duty, working with a commission, or whether they help to hide, it is a matter of helping to create wild conspiracy theories about what is really at stake. And the whole process of texting and deletion has been explained, but I would just like to say here too, so it has been said again that when the Mink Commission asks for text messages, it has long since been too late because there has been a 30-day automatic deletion, so it would have made no difference in practice. I think it is wise that work is now being started to ensure that there is something more systematic about the storage of text messages and guidelines. And finally, in terms of security, when we talk about text messages: the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice have both replied to it, but it is of course a question that there is not necessarily classified material, but that there can of course be sensitive material, also for the state of Denmark in relation to cooperation with other countries, communication with parties in here, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134528	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134529	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur is concerned about confidence in the institutions and the democratic dialogue. I would just like to say to the rapporteur that the questions could only be answered openly. One could simply answer the questions put to the government by the Folketing and the people, instead of doing something illegal, subsequently deleting the evidence, not replying to the Commission, especially when we know that the longer time it takes to reply to the Commission, the sad fact is that it will be re-engaging the text messages. If you, as a government, wanted to cooperate openly with the Commission and get everything out of it, you would not have deleted the texts at all at first, you would not have had to be dragged to the trough by the Ombudsman in order to answer if you had deleted them at all, and you have started to recreate them immediately. My question is about information security. After all, it is for reasons of information security, even the security of the empire, as a Socialist has said, that these texts are deleted. Now the PM has stopped deleting these texts. Is it the view of the Social Democratic Party that the Prime Minister exposes the kingdom to some uncertain conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134636-2	The deletion of text messages, which has taken place in the Prime Minister's Office, in the Ministry of Justice, but which has not been systematic, as there have been no clear guidelines for this, I think it is clear to everyone that it has taken place before a decision is taken on the grounds of public health to kill all minks in the country. This has nothing to do with the specific case. It has nothing to do with what the investigating commission is investigating, which is the question of the legal basis for that decision, and that is where it becomes dangerous, and the rapporteur is doing it again: it calls it evidence. These aren't evidence, there's no trial going on, there's no police investigation going on, we're not talking about evidence. We are talking about a Commission which is examining certain documents which the authorities must, of course, hand over and which must work together to extradite, and the work on the extradition of these documents has been going on for a long time, and it is still going away. To conclude, I would just like to say that I think it is wise now that there has been a debate about: do we have the right systems for storing text messages? that you then pause the automatic sentence until new guidelines are in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134745	Thank you. And then it's sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134748	Thank you. Can the rapporteur simply answer: Does the re-creation of the text messages make it difficult for the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister to ignore the education to recreate them for four months? After all, it is for four months that the Commission's call to recreate text messages is ignored and to avoid deleting them. Is it difficult to ignore it for four months and only to start now?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134815	Well, for good reason, I am not part of the dialogue that the Ministry of Justice, on behalf of the authorities, the state and the other ministries, has with the Commission on the provision of material, so it is kind of difficult for me to go into precisely. Moreover, I do not have the technical insight as to whether time means anything in terms of re-engaging text messages. So I find that hard to answer. But what I can just soothe sir... Thomas Danielsen is, of course, aware that both the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister have made it very clear many times now that they are working with the Commission to provide material, and that it has now taken quite extraordinary action to ask the police technicians to help restore the text messages. I think it is in everyone's interest, and I believe in particular that it is in the interests of the government that these texts be recreated. So, sir. Thomas Danielsen can be quite confident that everything is being done to make it happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134902	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110134905	Thank you. Quite frankly, I think that it provokes a great many Danes that the Social Democrat rapporteur is saying this and repeating it here with the Social Democracy cooperating fully with the Review Commission. I really think it provokes the Minister of Justice using it too, so when you know that at the end of April the chairman of the investigating commission is addressing the government to secure it, also specifically in relation to text messages. One writes that one recommends that automatic deletion stop, and that these things be guaranteed, also follow what has just been asked, in that we know that the longer the time passes, the harder it will be to recreate these text messages that have already been deleted. So when the chairman of the committee specifically asks the Prime Minister's Office to do so, and that is in April this year, and we are going to have until September this year, when there will be public controversy about this before anything on the part of the Social Democratic Party begins to happen, how can one claim that one cooperates fully with the investigating commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135012	After all, there has been an ongoing dialogue between the Ministry of Justice and the Commission on the provision of material, how it should be done and what material should be provided. It took place in April, it's been going on since, and it's still going on away. But if the automatic deletion of text messages had been stopped in April, it would have been irrelevant in relation to the text messages that are around November, where this case is rolling, because for good reasons these texts had been deleted. I also think it is important to say that thousands of pages of documents have been handed over. The PM's entire inbox has been handed over. Text messages have also been issued in cooperation with the Commission. And that's because the government cooperates fully with the commission. It is also a Commission which the Social Democratic Party has supported in setting up, because it made good sense to have this process examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135101	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135106	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think it is a bit brave to talk about confidence in democracy and openness and all the other words that were used from up there. I will try again to raise the debate in this way in principle. The rapporteur could seriously try to remove his rapporteur's cap. The Commission is addressing the Ministry and the Prime Minister and saying that we would like to ask for these texts. Then it takes 132 days before you answer, and by the way, it comes out afterwards that you delete your text messages automatically. Does the rapporteur think that this is a source of confidence with regard to democracy and politicians, or does it have the opposite effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135157	Well, it's a little in circles now, isn't it? However, quite seriously, I believe that it increases my confidence in democracy, that we can sit in the country's parliament, agree to set up a commission to investigate a process, and that we are confident that the authorities will cooperate with that commission, hand over all the material that is relevant to that commission and have even now asked the police technicians to help restore some of the material that has been lost. Yes, it actually strengthens my confidence in democracy. But what worries me is when we talk in here about it as if there was a trial going on, that there is a police investigation going on, that evidence has been disposed of. This is a rhetoric which I think is insanely dangerous to democracy because it gives the impression that this is a completely different place from what it really is. This helps to polarise the debate, and I do not believe in that creates much confidence. But it's a responsibility we have in here. It is not the responsibility of the authorities, because they cooperate with the Commission, and they have done so on a regular basis, in order to provide the relevant material.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135259	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135300	Well, that's right, isn't it? I think the Prime Minister made a point yesterday when the Prime Minister pointed out that the very same opposition, which is now busy chasing the government, has abolished the Iraq Commission. Is that double standard? In the past, the Free Greens have been after our friends on the left and have said that it is important that we have the same standard, regardless of which Prime Minister is sitting there. Because otherwise it will destroy our credibility. But I just have to say something to the rapporteur. Let us make it more concrete. 132 days goes there before you answer. For the sake of transparency alone, can the rapporteur answer whether it is seriously the rapporteur's view that it is okay to reply after 132 days?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135348	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135348-2	As I have also said before, I am not part of the practical dialogue. I would also find it very worrying if I were part of it between the Ministry of Justice and the Commission. What we have been informed from the Ministry of Justice and from the Prime Minister's Office is that there has been ongoing cooperation on the supply of material and that this dialogue is still going on because attempts are being made to support and assist the Commission in its work in the best possible way. And, by the way, I am in complete agreement with Mr Tugendhat. Sikandar Siddique in that the bourgeois government, which closed a commission to investigate a war, had to be said to be based on some somewhat dubious relationship, I really think is critical. At least that is not good for democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135427	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135428	Thank you. I think the rapporteur is making it sound as if the committee of inquiry was set up by the government. I also think that the rapporteur makes it sound as if criticism of a current government is undemocratic; it is not; the opposite would be undemocratic. I also think that the rapporteur makes it sound as if words are enough; it is not; action is needed. And trust is something you deserve. Does the rapporteur think that the Prime Minister's own review of deleted text messages is a way of restoring confidence in the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135510	I fully agree that the Commission has not been set up by the government. It has been set up by the Danish Parliament, including the Social Democratic Party. And it is, of course, the responsibility of the government and the authorities to cooperate with the Commission to provide them with all the material they need for their investigation. And, of course, a government must be able to tolerate criticism. I even believe that it is absolutely essential for democracy that it is subjected to criticism, that it is followed in prayers, both by a critical press and by the opposition in parliament, etc. I mean, it's absolutely crucial in a democracy. I do not think I have expressed anything else. However, we are not talking about a general criticism when we talk about presenting things in a different way than they are when you start talking about the disposal of evidence, when a party like the Left posters on their facebook page with references to the criminal code's paragraph on the disposal of evidence that has nothing to do with this case, then we are not talking about criticism; then we are talking about spreading what I would describe as conspiracy theories about what is really at stake.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135616	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135617	Thank you. In fact, I hear the rapporteur, and Mr. Alex Vanopslagh said a little bit about it, be a little comical about it here today, a little like comic Ali standing there on the outskirts of Baghdad and saying that everything is good and they run here, while the Americans walk in and the more or less have conquered Baghdad. That is what I am hearing from the rapporteur today, because it is so thin a defence that comes from the Social Democratic Party in this matter. Having said that, I would like to put a specific question to the rapporteur. It's about the fact that when you follow these texts that have come through people other than the Prime Minister's Office, there are a number of text messages that should be recorded but not recorded. I would like to hear from the rapporteur, for example. the text message that has been sent via one from the Ministry of Food, a head of department there, who issues clear orders and comes from Pelle Pape, an employee of the Prime Minister's Office. That text hasn't been filed in the PM's Office. How can the rapporteur really be confident that it is up to the individual staff who have sent different text messages to report? That is what they want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135746	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135747	After all, we are not here in the Parliamentary Chamber handling matters under the Public Service Act. I can't possibly stand here and decide what to report or not. It is neither my job nor the job of the Folketing to secure. We must make rules and frameworks for this, and we do so under the auspices of legislation, but we must not stand here and deal with specific text messages and what should be recorded and not recorded. But there is no doubt that this whole discussion has given rise to the government itself saying: let us look at how the rules are also for data retention etc. However, we cannot stand here and deal with individual text messages sent between officials. That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135828	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135836	No, it may well be that the rapporteur cannot handle single text messages on a case-by-case basis, but it is, to put it mildly, relevant when the defence of deleting text messages, as the Prime Minister has done after 30 days, is that you have to record relevant text messages in advance, and those texts have not been reported. The public law can be discussed back and forth, and there is good reason for this, but it is, after all, in a way that if direct decisions are taken, orders are given, for example. The slaughter of mink in a text message must be recorded. So I ask again: why is it that no text messages have been reported at all from the four main characters in the Prime Minister's Office who should have been involved in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110135927-2	There are two things: it is probably very important to make it clear that no text has been sent with an order to kill mink. I mean, that's not how that decision was made or that case was dealt with. And when journaling is important not just for text messages, but for what it is, it is of course because when a decision is made • when an authority makes a decision • should be able to be insight into what is behind that decision and decision. That is why it is, and this is the legislation we have made ourselves, the material on which the decision is based and which is part of the procedure that needs to be recorded. After all, I have no idea about the specific text messages, and what else has been of material on other platforms that have been recorded. That is why we cannot possibly stand here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I do not think that is our task and deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140014	Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140015	Thank you. Now the rapporteur says that no text has been sent with an order to kill all the minks. How does the rapporteur know that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140029	Of course, it is a bold question in that there has been an automatic deletion of text messages. But when I know it, it's because it's not how the authorities work. It is also described in much other material, which has been handed over to the investigating commission, how that decision has been taken in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140056	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140056-2	The truth is, we'll never find out if those texts aren't generated again. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur does not find it quite problematic that the Prime Minister's Office apparently has exchange phones, so it is impossible to identify who has had a current telephone in his hands at any given time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140119-2	Well, there should be no doubt that the Social Democracy definitely hopes that police technicians will manage to recreate those texts. And then I feel very convinced that there will be no text messages in which that order is given. That is why I really hope that these texts will be recreated, because there is no doubt that it has created a lot of noise and caused many serious accusations and conspiracy theories that have also flown around in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140149	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140152	Thank you. This is a serious matter, and if we think back to 3 November, there was an e-mail from the Ministry of the Environment and Food to a number of ministers in relation to the fact that it was precisely necessary to have legal basis in the legislation in order to kill mink. And the government and the Prime Minister continue to do so, even if she subsequently knows that it is illegal. It's also right to stick to that part. Then I would like to hear from the Minister about something, no, not the Minister, because if it were the Minister, then they were also speaking under the responsibility of the witness when they had to tell the truth, in other words, precisely in relation to what Per Larsen says. The rapporteur cannot know what has been sent by text messages, but when you hear the rapporteur, you would almost think that the rapporteur knew. So I would like to ask what Peter Skaarup also asked about the text messages that have come out: does the rapporteur not think that they should have been recorded, i.e. the text from Studsgaard, but also from Barbara Bertelsen? Then I agree with the Conservative rapporteur who said that, if you are to have confidence, it simply requires you to speak truthfully in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140302	I think it says a great deal about where we are in this debate, that we are in the Chamber of Parliament and that it is being speculated whether the fact that such a difficult and far-reaching decision has been taken, which was quite crucial in terms of public health, should be done by text. I mean, I can't believe we're where you're standing in the Assembly Hall and you're guessing about it. And that is just to repeat the answer to the questioner's party colleague: I cannot stand here and take a stand on specific text messages and whether or not they should be recorded. It's not our role here. It is clear that what forms the basis of an authority decision or decision in a case must be recorded. That is, of course, the principles of the rules that apply today, and I agree with them. So, first of all, the question of legal basis is precisely why we in the Danish Parliament have set up a commission to examine that question, and I would perhaps urge you to observe a little more generally that now that there is a Commission inquiry, it might be that we should actually wait for them to make a decision before we immediately conclude what the answer will be to the question we have asked them ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140417	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140418	Well, I'm thinking there's a reason why the government has, like, set up sir. Mogens Jensen is in charge of taking the fists for this. We must also say that the Prime Minister has been out to say that mistakes have been made in this area, and the legal basis is known, and we also know from the report that on 3 November an e-mail from the Ministry of Food went to other ministers, and then one could say: what is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, what is the responsibility of the Minister of Health, what is the responsibility of the Minister of Business, etc. etc.? In other words, there are several ministers who have been aware of this and have been aware that this was serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140455	After all, this is the whole process which is now being examined by the investigating commission. That is exactly what happened: what is the basis for the decision? And what kind of legal basis was there? It is quite true what the questioner says that the Prime Minister has been out to regret that a mistake has been made, and now there is a Commission investigating how that error has arisen. And I think we should wait and I also think that we should respect the decision we have taken together to set up a Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140524	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140527	Thank you. I'm a little interested in security and security. And I tried to ask the Minister for Justice for his assessment before, and now I wanted to hear whether the rapporteur would like to say a few words about how he thinks that security is today, when the systematic deletion of text messages has ended, even though it was justified by precisely a question about information security.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140553	I think it is wise, also in the light of the discussion that has arisen in connection with the Review Commission, and whether we have the right setup for storing data from text messages and content from text messages, to pause it and say that there is something we need to find out, and that work has now been started. I think that is a wise decision to make. Then it is clear, of course, that while this work is going on, caution must be exercised about the use of text messages. I believe that this is the case without even being a part of what looks like the rows over here that you already have, because it is not a medium that can be used for confidential and encrypted information and information.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140643	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140644	Something else that the rapporteur also talked a lot about was trust, and that is also one of the things that my speech is going to revolve around. So this is a fundamental question: will the rapporteur not help to look at the public law, in other words a completely new public law, which invites openness and therefore also confidence? I think that is a very relevant debate and a very relevant question in the wake of this very question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140713	Indeed, as the Minister for Justice also said, discussions are taking place on the law of the public both with the conciliation circle and with the parties of the Danish Parliament, and that is what is being done, because it is a request from among others. Mrs. Samira Nawa. And then we have to talk about: is there anything that needs to be adjusted? Just to be honest: I do not think that my starting point for these discussions will be that there will be revolutions, but it may well be that there are some adjustments to the Public Service Act that would be good to make, and of course I am open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140744	Thank you. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140746	Thank you. Now both the Minister for Justice and the rapporteur have addressed the situation where you feel the need to sort out some of these text messages that come out. In this context, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that, in general, the texting of texts is unjustified if the Commission asks for all texts. And when I ask, it is because the rapporteur has said on several occasions that this is not a trial. However, we have to say that the rules governing the supply of material are, after all, roughly the same as those applying in a legal case. So in section 9 of the legal basis of this commission it is stated that everyone has a duty to hand over material to the Commission at the request of the Commission. And in section 10 it says that if you do not fulfil that obligation, instructions can be given by the Commission to supply material, and if you do not comply with that requirement, you can be taken six months into custody in prison. So I ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur not agree that material cannot be sorted out if the Commission asks for the whole material?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110140853	Yeah, I kind of agree with that. And as I understand the practical way in which this works, there is an ongoing dialogue between the Commission and the Ministry of Justice on what kind of material the Commission is interested in. The Ministry of Justice provides this and, of course, has a responsibility to say that there are relevant material relating to what the Commission is investigating and which they must, of course, be provided with. And if it does and hopefully it does succeed in restoring the text messages, then it will be, as if they had been there from the beginning, the employees who are initially asked to decide whether there is any material here that is relevant to the commission to investigate. And I just have to say that there I am very confident that the employees of our central administration will, of course, hand over all relevant material when the Folketing has set up a commission. I have no reason to doubt that. And, of course, that's right, as Mr. Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen says that there is of course the possibility that the commission can say that they will take out the whole text inbox and go through it. However, it may not also be easier in the practical reality for the work of the Commission that someone has sat with the materials and knows the cases that help to select what is really relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141004	Thank you. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141005	And if the commission does the last thing, namely ask for all the material, then all the material must be handed over. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141013	Well, there's that dialogue going on all the time between the Ministry of Justice and the Commission on the supply of material. And I do not think there is any reason to assume that the Commission should not get and not get all the material they are asking for. And the Commission has also asked for these texts, which is why quite extraordinary steps have now been taken to restore them so that they can also be included in the work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141037	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141039	The rapporteur said earlier that what is relevant to an authority's decision on a case must be recorded. In a case relating to the closure of an entire profession, does the rapporteur think that a text saying that the profession should be closed is relevant and should therefore also be recorded?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141059	I find it very difficult to understand that we have to stand in this Chamber and deal with specific texts sent between officials. But it has to be so, and then I have to say that as I understand the rules, and I am quite sure that there are good people who can come to the Legal Affairs Committee and review with us, then something that is relevant to the decision of the case must be recorded. So there can of course be worldwide communication on a matter, but what needs to be recorded is what is relevant or which is the basis for a decision by an authority or for the decision of the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141137	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141138	Thank you. In fact, I feel sorry for the rapporteur, and when I feel sorry for the rapporteur, it is because it is easy to get on ice when it comes to defending something that, for good reasons, is not fully understood. After all, it is quite impossible for the rapporteur to have an insight into what is involved in correspondence on some text messages which the rapporteur himself has not seen, which have been deleted a long time ago and which are probably for the same reason causing a certain degree of distrust and suspicion among very many Danes and also among rapporteurs here. How does it feel, as rapporteur, to stand here and stand for something that you have absolutely no insight into?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141214	Jaman, it actually feels great. Because I have been frustrated for a long time by the way in which the civil parties have acted in this matter and the way in which people's confidence in democracy and our institutions is shaped and the way in which they try to portray this as something that is not there when they talk about evidence that has been disposed of and when they talk about police investigations that are not in progress. So I'm actually gonna have to say that I'm about to walk down this platform with a feeling of having relieved my heart, because I think it's time to say it out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141245	With the final words, there are no more brief remarks. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. As I said at the outset, we only have two hours. We have spent well enough an hour now, and we need 36 minutes for rapporteur speeches and endings if everyone needs to spend their time. The members of the Folketing can then figure out for themselves how much time there is to make brief comments. But we will continue in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141321	What we are going to talk about today is not even one of the greatest political scandals of recent Danish history, namely the illegal killing of all minks. What we need to talk about is what is developing into the scandal of the scandal: the complete systematic deletion of evidence in the form of text messages and the very clear opposition to the Commission. Let me start by summing up what we know. We know that the Prime Minister and her closest employees as almost the only ones in the entire Central Administration have systematically deleted their texts. We know that the Prime Minister will not tell you exactly when she started deleting texts, but that she probably did, while the Folketing decided to set up an independent investigation into the whole minkskandalen. We know that when the Commission asks in April this year to stop deleting text messages, the Prime Minister happily continues his erasing. We also know that the Prime Minister waited 132 days to inform the Commission that the texts had been deleted and, moreover, we know that the Prime Minister never actually replied when the commission asked for the texts to be recreated. And now we also know that, despite all this, the Social Democratic Party has the nerve to stand here on the platform of the Folketing and say that it is the rest of us who question democracy that it is others who question confidence in central social institutions. That you can afford it is a brazenness without equal. Then we also know that the Prime Minister has made a number of maritime statements about why she actually deletes text messages. And what exactly is the problem with these marine statements? Well, if we cut it all the way to the bone, the problem is that the Prime Minister, on the one hand, is trying to convince us that her texts are so important that they need to be deleted for security reasons, but on the other hand, they are so unimportant that they should not be reported. One must either owe one's political mandates or paycheck to the Social Democratic Party if one cannot see that there is something wrong with that explanation, and that is why I have to say that we in the Left do not trust the Prime Minister and the government in this matter. I also find it deeply worrying that we can now hear from the Minister for Justice that those who deleted text messages and opposed the Commission did not try to restore them in good time, and also deleted other material, for example. from a government website, now they are the very same people who have to decide which text messages are to be presented to the Commission. Honestly, that creates distrust. That is what calls into question the rule of the people and trust in central institutions. So from here, we just need a clear call: if the government is really interested in getting to the bottom of this and wants to get away from everything we others call critical issues, but as the government calls conspiracies, then put all the recreated text messages over the commission. Then, as an independent body, they can assess what is relevant. This is a scandal. We need to get to the bottom of it, every stone must be turned, everything must be brought to light. Then I would like to read out a text for adoption on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government has not dealt with the situation about the deleted text messages in due time. The Danish Parliament criticises the government for having opposed the Commission and not stopped the deletion when the Commission asked for this. The Danish Parliament instructs the government to hand over all recovered text messages to the investigating commission. • V 9).
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141716	Thank you. There are a few brief comments to Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141720	Thank you. It is usually said that for the clean, everything is clean, and I can at least hear that Mr. Morten Dahlin and the Left are completely clean in this context when it comes to openness, transparency, transparency and that it must be possible to control the government and its decisions. That is why it is very good that you both say what you do and do what you say before and after a choice. That's why I'm just here to hear Mr. Knox. Morten Dahlin, whether the Left still regards itself as part of the circle of agreement behind the Public Act, and whether the Left still supports both the general clause and the rule of ministerial service, or whether that openness and transparency in relation to the Left's view has also been achieved there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141804	Well, we have said very clearly that the Corona crisis and the way the government has handled it show that there is a need for us to look at the public law and see if we can do some revisions to it that provide more openness. That's what we've been saying all along. And in relation to the matter of who is clean, I would just like to say that the Enhedslisten has been talking about the rule of law for years, but as soon as it is the friends of the Social Democratic Government who are doing something wrong, you are pious like a lamb. Why is it that the Enhedslisten does not stand up and say: we are in favour of openness, and that is why the government must send out all texts to the Commission? It's very, very simple. Enhedslisten has the opportunity to do so, and then there would be a majority. But the Enhedslisten rushes up like lions and falls like lambs.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141845	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141846	I'll give it to you, sir. Morten Dahlin is an excellent opportunity to ask me if I will be giving my rapporteur's speech in a moment. I'd like to ask Mr. Morten Dahlin: What is it so specific that the Left would like to change in relation to the Public Service Act? The Left is still in favour of the general clause, the Left is in favour of the rule of ministerial service, or what is it specifically that you say you want to change when you look at the Public Service Act? What exactly is it that we want?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141912	Well, we're gonna have a discussion on that. However, some of the places where we see that some changes could be possible could be the whole epidemic area. Should it be compared to the environment, in relation to what openness there is? Should we look at generally greater openness, in relation to what are professional assessments and what are political decisions? These could be two specific points that we are willing to discuss. However, to completely scrap the Public Service Act and make a huge reform, as the Enhedslisten proposes, we have never said we are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141939	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110141940	Everything needs to be brought to light, the rapporteur says, and I agree with that, and we have set up a Commission to ensure that this process takes its course. I would also like to ask about the Public Access Act. Paragraph 33 of the general clause. 5, which I mentioned earlier, has in fact been used in at least two cases to exempt things from public access to documents. One was about access to the issue of the mink process, and the other was about the progress of the police. Both requests for access to documents were made before a Commission was set up. These things were therefore excluded from access to documents, and I do not think that is very good. In my party, we are very much in favour of openness, and I would like the same openness that we demand of this government to be an openness that we want to demand of a future Left Government. Then the Left will help to abolish §33. Five?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142037	No, we didn't say we would. We have put forward some thoughts which I, among other things. We have also explained here, with regard to some of the places where we believe there is a need for a review of the Public Service Act. But may I not just say that everyone except SF can see how comical this is. Now the government's faithful support party comes to the rescue and asks for the public law in a debate where it is about deleted text messages in a case that is developing into one of the greatest scandals of recent political Danish history. If the SF were actually in favour of openness, then it should also apply when the Social Democrats, who are apparently the best friends of the SF, have done in their nettles when they have deleted evidence when they have opposed the Commission. Therefore, I would just like to say to SF: if you really are in favour of openness, then we should not have some theoretical discussion about a future public law; then we should have a discussion right now about whether the SF is ready to force the government to hand over all the recreated text messages so that it is not the very same people who have sat and deleted the text messages that will assess what is relevant to get over the commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142133	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142134	Well, SF is in favour of openness, and we are not treating the government differently from what we did with Mrs Inger Løjberg when it was about the Instructor's Commission. And if the rapporteur looks very carefully, the rapporteur can see that the SF has not, in one case, been out judging Mrs Inger Løjberg in advance. I think it is wrong to delete text messages, and we must have rules on that, but we must also have rules that ensure that in future there is full transparency. This cannot only be demanded of one government; it must also be demanded of future governments. That's where I think the Left fails fatally.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142213	I hear what the rapporteur says, and I can only say that in the sentence in which otherwise you got yourself well up rhetorically and said that it was wrong to delete text messages, there was not a single requirement to ensure that the government would actually hand over the recovered text messages to the Commission. SF doesn't have the guts. I think that is a pity, and that is the opposite of openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142231	Then it's mr. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142234	Thank you. November 2nd at night. 21.30 was the rapporteur on TV 2 News, and there he said and I quote: it is in itself an absurd situation that the police now have to go in and search the PM's phone to find evidence. Now it is the government itself that has asked the police to help restore the material, and there is no evidence involved in a police investigation. Actually, there's no police investigation going on at all. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur does not see for himself that we are involved in the debate and moving it somewhere where we are not at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142315	Now I'm gonna take a deep breath, 'cause I know sir. Kasper Sand Kjær well. I know he's a smart and good politician, and yet I'm going to have to listen to him again. Kasper Sand Kjær sits and says that it is the Left and the other opposition parties who are asking critical questions in this matter that are contributing to the debate. And yet the Social Democratic Party here claims that it is the government that has asked the police to recreate the data. At first, the government wouldn't even answer if text messages had been deleted. This happens only after the Ombudsman forces the government to do so. When the investigating commission then asks the government to restore text messages, the Commission does not reply at all, and only after 43 days and public and political pressure is it forced to ask the police to restore the text messages in a situation where we know very well that time is crucial for restoring all the data. Those who question democracy, popular rule and the rule of law in this matter are the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142414	Thank you. Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142416	Speaking of democracy, popular rule and the rule of law, I would like to say that one of the tools there is ultimately impeachment. It is a rather drastic step for the Folketing to take. After all, the Left voted in favour of a citizen's proposal on a few lines to raise an impeachment case against the Prime Minister of the country without having the shadow of a basis for doing so. Does the rapporteur think it is worthy of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142441	The Left stands by what we are voting in the Folketing, and we are a party that respects the rule of law, and if you were also in the Social Democratic Party, you would not be spending time opposing the Commission and not handing out material. You wouldn't have erased the material at all in the first place. I would like to stand by both what we have voted and what I have said. And frankly, one must owe one's pay slip to the Social Democratic Party if one does not agree with the Left that we are in an absurd situation where the police technicians have to sit with their fingers on the PM's phone to find out the material. Honestly, it's absurd.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142514	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments and the next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142524	Thank you, President. Just over a year ago, an illegal decision was taken. The government reported to the Danes and, of course, to the hundreds of families who begotten mink, that the whole profession should be cut back. All animals had to be killed, police and defense, etc. was set in motion. So-called actioncards were drawn up which told the individual policeman how to act when you called the poor minkkeeper who was told that if you couldn't knock down your mink yourself, then the authorities would probably come and help. We now know that this was an illegal decision. Most recently, I was in a debate with the Minister for Food, who said: We had the legal basis to put down 75%. of the minks. Then the government would probably have stopped there and then provided itself with a legal basis to go beyond what was legally required. Now it is a question of whether one can get to the bottom of it and find out: what really happened; who made the decision; who knew it was illegal; who really should have stopped this illegalness from the government, which is also costing taxpayers up to 20 billion. kr.? A committee of inquiry has then been set up by the majority of the Folketing to do so. It is fantastic to hear the Social Democratic Party, which believes that from the very beginning the Commission of Inquiry has been backed up. No! It was when there was a majority here in the Danish Parliament who wanted to set up the committee of inquiry that the Social Democratic Party came to sneak up and said that it would then want to be involved in setting it up. And we were happy about that. But the fact that the Social Democrats were the ones who thought of a committee of inquiry from the beginning is history counterfeiting on the great blade. In April, the Commission asked that all automatic deletion be stopped, among other things. also by text messages, and that these various documents, which the investigating commission considered necessary, were secured. And here in September, when there had been controversy about this very question, the Social Democrats thought it was time to start looking at these texts. The automation was then carried out in the Prime Minister's Office until yesterday, when, probably under pressure from the support parties, the automatic deletion was stopped. And that then opens up the next question, namely that the Prime Minister said, moreover, that the automatic deletion was for reasons of information security. I have an answer here from the Prime Minister to question No. S 154, an answer that we received here on 9 November, which says that the Prime Minister's Office could inform us that it was for reasons of information security. For what kind of uncertain future do we face from the Prime Minister and the senior officials and their people who have had this automatic deletion for the sake of information security when they do not delete any more? I mean, I'm just saying, it's completely flapping in the wind, all of it. The government has a huge problem of explanation. It was probably not because of information security, although we now have this on a written reply from the Prime Minister's Office. It was perhaps because of security; but perhaps not the security of the empire or the security of information, but perhaps the security of the persons concerned, because it would be a little uncomfortable to bring out the content of the text message in question. And then there is the next question about the obligation to register. Because we obviously agree here in the Danish Parliament that what is happening on a text message, if it is the nature of what is covered by the obligation to register, must of course be recorded. So when you have automatic deletion on your phone, you have to in principle every month there is someone here who, if so, has to be recorded? It has not happened, it has not happened, and that is why we also know that there has been a breach of the journaling obligation, because, of course, during this period there are things that have happened on text that would otherwise have happened years ago by e-mail or by other means. And may I just remind you that we are talking about a period in which quite a lot of employees were sent home because of corona, and where we all know that then a greater part of the communication about what is going to happen is going on on text. So that's why, government and social democracy: you really have a bad case. And it would serve you if you accepted it, acknowledged it and apologized to the Danish Parliament and the Danish people and found another way to carry you in all this so that we could rebuild some trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142940	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I would just like to remind you that this directly indicted issue also applies in a majority. We continue in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110142959	Thank you for the floor. We can quickly agree that, to put it mildly, it is not very fortunate that text messages had been deleted in the Prime Minister's Office, which was to be part of the work of the Commission which was to map out this whole process of dismantling the mink industry. Fortunately, there is now work to be done to restore the text messages, and I hope that will happen, of course. It is clear that in SF we have only one interest, and it is that this process is being mapped out. That is why it was good that the Prime Minister stood up and answered questions last week, because I think that the speculations had been going on for far too long. But I actually think that means that this debate is a little behind, because part of what the Conservative People's Party wanted to do with this debate is in the process of happening. The police are then left with a question that I have not really heard anyone else say anything about in today's debate: should we obtain logged information? After all, the question debate is also about this. However, as far as I can see, it is no longer part of the text of the adoption, so perhaps someone can explain to me whether it has been regretted that that part was being started. And to this question about logging, there's probably not much more to say than that the commission can ask for the material it wants. It's already asked for some information. Then I have to save the audience that I tell you a lot about how we in SF generally think we log too much in Denmark. In fact, we are not at all satisfied with the proposal made by the Ministry of Justice in an emergency because there is a verdict that forces us to do so. However, with regard to this debate, I can be frank in my doubts as to what it will bring from information. We can certainly see, if we get the material, how different phones in the Prime Minister's Office have been in contact with each other around the time of the mink case. But it will not be possible to see the content, because after all it is not stored. And it is certainly the content which is most interesting and which can give us an explanation of the situation, and that is probably why we are having this debate today. So I actually believe that the SF's answer to the problem is that if the Commission wants to have logged information, it must obtain it, and we in the SF will not interfere with that, because it will be the Commission that best knows what kind of material it is that will be helpful. If it wants it, we have to give it what the government has to do. Finally, I would like to say clearly that I think this case underlines that we have a huge problem with rules on text messages and other digital means of communication, because obviously there has been no guidelines for text messages other than public rules on journaling. And there you can understand at Søren Pind, who has also deleted text messages and it is very fortunate that there was no commission to use them that when he was the Attorney General of the Left, there were no ministers, according to him, who reported it. And it goes without saying that it's not okay. Of course, if there's something that needs to be recorded, it needs to be recorded. That's why SF doesn't want us to be in this situation again. There must be rules not just for text messages, but for all digital means of communication • Messenger and what else you can find on • and they should of course be stored for as long as the emails have been posted, namely for 25 years. We need to change the public law so that we have more transparency and openness than we do today, and I am concerned about the reports from the Left, because perhaps there is not so much willingness to change the public law. And it is a very, very great responsibility that we put on the shoulders of the Left in this debate, because it will be the Left that is the key to changing the public law. It is about the ministerial service rule, the parliamentary politician rule, the general clause and the note commitment Thank you for that. ) I will probably have to read out the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110143411	Yeah, you're allowed to do that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110143415	Yeah, they do. It is a proposal for adoption that I am making on behalf of the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, and it is this: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that guidelines are needed for the storage of digital communications and that the Danish Parliament should be involved in their preparation. The Folketing considers that a new public law is needed. The Folketing considers it essential that the government assists the Commission and provides all material requested by the investigating commission. • V10. • V10. • V10. •
ParlaMint-DK_20211110143446	Thank you. This will be part of the further debate. Then I'll bring you some kind of service information. It is 14.4 p.m. and there are five, perhaps six rapporteurs and the minister left, so that is what we have to do with. We're gonna turn it off around 2:00 a.m. 15.00 in the interests of further planning in the Folketing, and two hours have been set aside. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110143512	Thank you, President. Transparency begets trust, secrecy the exact opposite, and this is true in many aspects of life. However, as elected representatives, we have a special commitment to openness. We make decisions that have consequences for real people, including far-reaching consequences. That is why it must be a precondition for our representative democracy that we can look at power and that there is openness as to how political decisions are made; yes, and therefore also when it comes to the major and serious decisions. At the press conference the other day we had a number of questions clarified, but information was also on the table, which we in the Radical Left wonder about. The Prime Minister could report that the systematic deletion of text messages is a relatively new initiative and that this has been done on the recommendation of the Head of Department of the Prime Minister's Office. There is, of course, nothing strange about this, in other words a Prime Minister receiving advice from a Head of Department, but the odd thing is that no reference can be made to which security agency the Head of Department has received the recommendation to introduce the bad practice. In addition, we also find it strange that the practice is justified for security reasons, but that it only applies to the top of the Prime Minister's Office, not to the rest of the government, given that information security is at stake. Yesterday we could then find that the erase practice has now changed, and what does it have to do with security? I cannot assess that, but it does of course give us reason to consider what purpose such practices have actually served and how we stand today with safety. The consequence of the erase practice is that the investigating commission, which has the clear purpose of clarifying what is up and down the matter of the killing of mink, now lacks access to very central persons' correspondence in the days around the time when this important decision was taken. And as we could understand at the press conference, the Prime Minister sees text messages as an ordinary tool of work, which is why we in the Radical Left do not share the view that text messages are formless communication and only exceptionally should be recorded. It is quite obvious that text messages have a different role today before they, for example. had 10 years ago. Today it is an ordinary form of communication and probably also in some parts of the case. We also have in the Radical Left a clear expectation that the government will cooperate with the Review Commission to provide all relevant material. Then there's the Public Act. Since 2016, we in the Radical Left have been fighting for changing governments to take action to restore openness, pull the blackout curtains aside. We want to create a new public law that will create greater transparency in public administration and more clarity in how decisions are taken. We would like to abolish the rule of ministerial service; we would like to see a single Board of Appeal dealing with the unequal practices around the ministries. And I cannot actually imagine a better opportunity than this particular case to get started with the work on a new public law. Because openness breeds trust, and confidence in politics is a shortcoming in these years. So we think we should start by having the texts recreated, but of course we should also work on the track to get a new public law. Finally, I would just like to say that the Radical Left agrees with the text of the adoption which was just read out by the SF rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110143855	Thank you. I think I am left with a democratic problem now, because a great deal has been asked for short remarks. If I follow that, not all rapporteurs will be given the floor, and I think that is a democratic problem, so that we cannot all answer a question. That is why I must make a choice now, which means that I will only give one word on a brief note here, because I would very much like all the rapporteurs to speak otherwise to be democratically wrong. And when it was mr. Alex Vanopslagh, who first signed in, I beg you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh to ask her question to Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110143935	I just want to hear from the rapporteur why it is that we do not want to support the blue block in that all relevant mink text messages are to be handed over to the mink commission and that the Prime Minister and her closest advisors should not be allowed to sit and sort in which text messages they should be recreated to be forwarded to the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110143954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110143955	There can be no doubt about the need for texting to be recreated. And then there is the arm's length principle in relation to the commission, and I actually think that should be honoured. Everything the Commission is asking for must be extradited, and that is what stands for us in the Radical Left. We do not think we should say what should be handed over to the Commission, because we are not ourselves a Commission or part of that Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110144026	Thank you to Mrs Samira Nawa. Then we move on to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110144033	Thank you for that, President. In the Enhedslisten, we are obviously engaged in getting to the bottom of this case about the killing of mink and the lack of a legal home and, of course, in the question of who knew when. It is not because, like the right, we disagree with that resolution; on the contrary, we believe that it was a right and wise decision because we ensured public health in the midst of a dangerous and serious epidemic. We are concerned about this because we are concerned that there is full transparency in how power works in Denmark and because, of course, we must be able to rely on the information we receive from the government. There are no snitches in the waltz here. We treat red and blue equally. We are concerned about the substance of the matter. That is why, when a commission was set up to investigate the case of Mrs Inger Løjberg, we did not interfere with the work of the Instructor's Commission. We have waited for the conclusions of the Instructor's Commission and we have waited for the report of the independent lawyers, and only then have we decided whether a case should be brought. We've held an arm's length arm in relation to the Board of Directors. This is exactly the same with regard to the investigation commission. We're not interfering with the investigation commission's work. We help it to ensure that it gets the optimal working conditions, but it is not our job to go out and draw conclusions. We will do so when the investigating commission concludes at the end of April. It is in stark contrast to the right, where many on the right had already exonerated Mrs Inger Løjberg in advance, regardless of what the Instructor's Commission might come up with, and many of the same have already known the Prime Minister and the Government guilty in advance, regardless of what the Commission comes up with. Several even try to draw a picture of the Prime Minister as a hard-boiled criminal with a skillful spin craft. It is then the same right who laid down the Iraq Commission, which was to support the legal basis for going to war in Iraq. So it is a little difficult to see that double standards are not being operated. How, then, do we ensure that the substance of the matter is brought to light? From the perspective of Enhedslisten, we must do something both in the short and in the long term. First of all, it is essential that the Commission be given the opportunity to work and that the government provide the documents, information and sources requested by the Commission. The government has assured on several occasions that it will. But, of course, we do not just take the government's word for it. We're gonna keep it up all the way through. If the Commission comes to us at any time and says that the government does not cooperate or does not provide the information they ask for, we will assist the Commission with all possible means. In addition, the case shows that we lack a clear procedure for reporting text messages and also for saving text messages. Of course, it must be a technology-neutral function, but electronic communication must be ensured, which concerns a case, so that it can also subsequently be verified whether or not a message is subject to journalism. It needs to be prepared now, and it is a bottom-up task. But we must also do something in the long term. We must take democracy seriously enough to ensure much more openness in our administration, and we must learn from these matters and consider whether we can do better. I'm pretty sure we can. The Publicity Act gives democracy a straitjacket and prevents the public, citizens and journalists from having access to see how power works. This is shattered in confidence in democratic work, especially when there are bigger cases. Regardless of what the commission comes up with, cases like this lead to more doubt... doubt in here, doubt in politicians and governments. We can only counteract and overcome that doubt if we have the courage to take the necessary steps to withdraw the curtains that the Public Service Act has drawn for the windows of democracy, so that there will be better insight into the work of power, even when it is difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110144440	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110144442	I would have asked this question to all the support parties, but because there is a short time, I am asking this. A short time ago there was a meeting of the Investigation Commission, and the blue block wanted the timing of the deletion of text messages to be included in the mandate, to be included in the work. That blocked the support parties. In the light of everything that has emerged afterwards, is this a resolution which the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party regret?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110144516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110144517	No, it's not. I think it is absolutely crucial that, when we have set up a committee of inquiry and given it a mandate, it is given the opportunity to work within that mandate, and if the committee of inquiry then says that information has been provided which one would like to ask for, and that creates a need for further, then we must of course assist it. But we should not start politically interfering in the course of the process, in relation to how this committee of inquiry works. The interesting issues raised here are an opportunity for us to investigate parliamentary issues. If it turns out that we can't get the information there, then we have the opportunity to do lawsuits, investigative commissions, whatver and of course we have to take advantage of those opportunities. But we must give the committee of inquiry we have set up the opportunity to carry out its task, namely to uncover this process, even within the time limit we have given. The only reason why we extended the mandate was because there was a lawyer's investigation which, in cooperation with the investigating commission, pointed out that there was a need to extend the mandate. Then, of course, we will do it, but we will not interfere politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110144617	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110144618	But it is precisely the politicians' job to make a mandate. I guess there's nothing wrong with doing that. I think it is wrong to see it as interfering in the work. There's a lot of things coming out after you've done the mission, about these texts. So it is absolutely relevant to have them with us, and therefore the Free Greens cannot understand why the support parties are going in and blocking that it can also be part of it. Well, we have an urgent question about it today, so it has to be crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110144650	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110144651	Well, it is absolutely crucial that the investigative commission is given the opportunity to carry out the mandate we have asked them to do. If there are other things to come, we have the opportunity to investigate the Parliament. If that is not enough, we have the opportunity to conduct a legal investigation, a review commission, and whatever is necessary. But if we keep coming and telling the Commission that now they have to look in one direction and that now they have to look in the other direction, then we do not give the Commission optimal conditions. We did not do so in relation to the Board of Directors, nor do we do so in relation to the Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110144720	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110144724	We have a prime minister who has broken the law; a prime minister who has destroyed an entire profession, as her adviser I quote, and therefore apologize for the language, the President called the shit; a prime minister who was aware of the crime; a prime minister who continued to break the law; a prime minister who did not hand over the evidence when it was demanded; a prime minister who automatically deleted text messages, even if told not to do so. It's crazy and not worthy of a prime minister. But I understand that the Prime Minister believes that it is a storm in a glass of water and that the opposition is merely trying to stir up a mood while the Prime Minister is busy saving lives. But when you delete text messages, it's to erase your tracks. Then it's because you have something you need to hide. We can't get an answer to what the Prime Minister was trying to hide. Nor can we get an answer as to whether the Prime Minister is reporting at all and, if so, how. Nor can we get an answer as to why the Prime Minister is changing telephones and where they go. All we know is that it was Secretary Barbara Bertelsen, who seems very private with the Prime Minister and apparently also self-appointed IT expert, who advised the Prime Minister for the text deletion. When that advice took place, the Prime Minister dares not say, but it is assumed that it was in the summer. I'd like to say it's a little at the Prime Minister's Office. The Prime Minister is trying to say that the deletion was recommended and carried out for security reasons, but there is not one with an understanding of security that supports that claim, and none of the other ministers sitting on the government's security committee deletes their texts. I just have to say that it doesn't make sense to delete anything if you don't have anything to hide. There is no logic in the explanations given by the Prime Minister and other government ministers. So I guess we'll have to live with that, as they say in the PM's Office. No, we can't live with that. The Danes are entitled to know what is up and down in this democratic scandal. The Prime Minister should not get away with blaming others for missing legal documents and text messages that have conveniently disappeared. I look forward to the investigation commission's continued work and final conclusions. I hope that everything will come to light, so that the Danes will have full knowledge of what we are witnessing. That is why, of course, it should not be the case that it is the employees of ministries who have to decide for themselves which text messages are relevant to the Commission. The Granskningskommissionen, set up by the Folketing, should have full knowledge so that the parties of the Folketing can subsequently take decisions on an informed basis. Everything has to be unveiled in this case for the benefit of the people and the Danes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145029	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145032	There's probably a lot in the interpretation of this case that we don't see the same way about. I'm thinking that's clear. I just got a little curious lately, as Mrs Pernille Vermund said, and which, as I heard when it was read, is also reflected in the adoption text of the bourgeois parties. As I understand it, the Commission will now be forced to obtain material it has not asked for itself. The work has so far been that the Commission asks for material, and they are then given it. Isn't it a little strange to ask that the Commission be given some material that the Commission itself hasn't asked for, or is it me who misunderstands what is being said?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145105	I think it is quite natural that when we in the Danish Parliament try to uncover a case like this and thus set up a commission, a committee of inquiry is set up, and we find out along the way that what the Commission has asked, namely that you send text messages and they write so that they cannot say to what extent they will need it and that you stop deleting documents, messages, etc., then it is extremely relevant when you do not stop the deletion and do not hand over the material that we then expand this commission and then say: it is clear that any text message must be included, not least because we can see that the recipients of some of these text messages can present text correspondences, which clearly show that it has been discussed that the matter has been closed off, as the counselor of the Prime Minister writes. So there are direct calls to close the mink business, one must understand, and that is relevant to the matter here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145206	Thank you. Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145208	Now I am simply confused at a higher level. So, the Folketing has set up a commission and given them a commission and asked them to investigate a case. One of the things they're allowed to do is ask the government to hand over the material. Now New Citizens or all the blue parties are going to change the terms of reference and force the commission to go through a lot of text messages that are not relevant to the case they are investigating. So far, the workflow is that the Commission is asking for material that is relevant to the case, and if the Danish Parliament is about to interfere in what material the Commission is going to examine, are we not also a little in breach of the arm's length principle that applies to a commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145241	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145242	No, we think it is quite natural, in terms of the lack of confidence we have with the government in providing relevant material, that it is now said that all material should be presented. It should not be the case that it is the minister or the employees who have deleted their own texts, who are now going to sort out what needs to be done and what is not to be done. When we read messages that Barbara Bertelsen has sent messages to the Ministry of Food, which has so much to do with this, and we can see that these are messages that have not been recorded, it should raise suspicions even with a Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145318	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145323	Thank you. I have learned from the Prime Minister that when you are on television on the platform, you have to stand and brand your hands while, so I will do the same, although the Prime Minister is primarily trying to wash his hands clean in the minks case. There is one of the greatest political scandals in Danish history. The Prime Minister and her closest associates have always known that there was a commission coming, yet evidence and text messages have continued to be deleted. When B.T. asked about access to documents 25 days after the press conference, yes, then the whole process was delayed to make sure that the texts had been deleted, it was claimed that there had been no correspondence at all, but since the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament goes into the matter, one must admit that the conversations have taken place, but that they have just been deleted. And that doesn't stop there. It has also emerged from the mink commission that the government has changed its statement to the Folketing on the mink process, so that it no longer appears that the government at the meeting where it decided to kill all the minks was informed of the lack of a legal basis. The Prime Minister assures us over and over again that she has nothing to hide, but even if you are a politician, you shouldn't be dumber than you are, and I don't believe the Prime Minister in this matter. Yesterday we had a question time when the Prime Minister refused to answer my question as to whether she knew that the closure of the mink industry would be illegal. It was clear in the annexes and papers of the meeting where it was decided to put down all the minks, that decommissioning would be illegal, and the government defends itself that it was not at all what was decided, it was decided to put down all the minks. Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! And then you won't answer whether you knew that a shutdown, that is, what you supposedly didn't decide, was illegal. It leaves three possibilities: either you have killed all the minks without reading the decision-making basis • I find it very worrying that decisions are taken so large and far-reaching without getting into the decision-making base • or you have known that the closure of the profession was illegal. And then you have either not been able to add two and two together and figure out that killing would also be illegal, or you have deliberately chosen a paperless model to cover up a deliberate violation of law. And a third option is that you've just come up with this distinction in order to defend yourself. I don't know what the truth is. I don't know. It's one of the three options, of course. It can't be anything else. And the only way we can find out is by getting everything out in this case, which is why it is relevant to get all text messages out, and there I have little confidence that the people who deleted text messages will also be involved in sorting any recreated text messages and sorting which will be passed on to the Commission. I think this is very, very inappropriate, and I am perhaps particularly incomprehensible that the support parties to the government will not help to ensure that all texts that are relevant come to the mink commission; that they will not help to ensure that the mink commission investigates: when exactly has it started to delete text messages? For the support parties, and I have great respect for this, often have a common cause when we are on the side of the rule of law and on the side of legal certainty. We will always defend the legal certainty of citizens, especially when it comes to child bride and criminal immigrants who are not to be sent out of the country, but as soon as it comes to a government that tries to erase its tracks, yes, then I think you are foot-timing. And I just have to say, I think history will judge you hard if you stand on the wrong side of history. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145634	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145637	I would really like to go down the track that I also talked to Mrs Pernille Vermund about. I just don't understand. It is now the wish of the bourgeois parties to hand over material to the Granskningskommissionen, which they have not asked to be extradited. Is that how it's supposed to be understood? It is, of course, the case that a Commission is asking for relevant material to be provided, which highlights a case from one side to the other, and then the Commission is working on it, but it is at the request of the Commission and is engaged in a dialogue with the authorities. But now the commission is required to go through a lot of material they don't want and which they don't think is relevant to what is their investigation or how is this requirement to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145713	The claim must be understood to mean that the Mink Commission's wish to receive all texts relevant to the mink case is fulfilled, but there is a risk that they will not be fulfilled if it is the Prime Minister and her closest advisor who must sit and decide whether a text message should be sent, because if they do, the commission feels it has received something while another simply has too harsh a tone or is too incriminating so that it is just removed. It is just that we need to find a way to ensure that it is not the Prime Minister and her closest advisor who decides which text messages are going on, but that all relevant mink text messages come to the Commission. I understand that some judge does not, of course, have to sit and judge whether what Mette Frederiksen had for dinner is relevant, but one could find a way of doing so regardless of what the Prime Minister and the closest advisors think should be in and should not be in.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145758	I'm gonna cut off Mr. Knox. Kasper Sand Kjær from the second question, and then we go on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Sand Kjær. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110145809	Thank you for the floor, President. Now, as a non-attached Member, I have not been given the floor in all sorts of debates, which is why I would be extremely sorry if we, as the Free Greens, were not to be allowed to speak today. So thank you to the President for giving us the opportunity. I must be quite honest and admit that I understand when people say that confidence in us politicians is falling and that it is not high enough. It hurts because it is a declaration of failure for our democracy, but I really understand it. We in here at Christiansborg have created a culture where consequences are a city in Russia. Nozzles are given to the right and to the left every time a minister has screwed up, while the rules for example. Our unemployed are only getting tighter and tighter, and the consequences of failing to comply with the rules are getting worse and worse. In other words, we have created our own little bubble where we are exempt from meeting the demands we make of the rest of the population. There's nothing to say if the people look at us and see us as a bunch of spoiled princes and princesses. We can no longer expect the respect of the people. We are here today because the Danish Prime Minister and the powerful officials of the Prime Minister's Office have deliberately deleted their communication during the greatest health crisis in my lifetime. While special legislation is being introduced while the country is being completely shut down and decisive decisions are being taken to shut down an entire profession, our Prime Minister is erasing all his communication. Whatever is said in the deleted text messages, it is under all criticism, and in reality it is quite unacceptable that the government stoppage should make an active effort to ensure that the public is not able to control their decisions. It is simply unworthy of a democracy, and it is very much helping to undermine the people's confidence in those in power at all. This is not the drop that makes the cup float over, for the water splashed out of the cup we call our democracy long ago. A cash aid recipient will be drawn into his vital benefit if he or she goes on vacation with the family without reporting it, but our Prime Minister can keep the public in the dark without any consequences. The government and especially the Prime Minister will be a democratic model for the people, but you are not when you act in the dark. Then I would like to look from here at my friends on the left and call for exactly the same standard to be applied to a Red Prime Minister as we would have towards a Blue Prime Minister, otherwise it will come back and hit us like a boomerang, and that will destroy credibility on the left. So, just as we were eager to get everything on the Instructor's Commission, we must also be doing so now when it comes to a Red Prime Minister. Then, on behalf of the Free Greens, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to work towards full openness in government work and to provide the public with the necessary opportunity to exercise control over the government. This must be done by extending the Public Service Act so that in future it will be the duty of any government to keep all communication on political matters throughout its term of office. • V 11). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150142	Thank you. I cannot say that this will be part of the further debate, because it is over now that the time has passed. The votes on the proposals for adoption will be taken tomorrow. I thank the parties that we made it all, even though it was on a hanging hair. There will be a short break while we get a little refurbished in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150306	Now it is the answer to questions sent to the ministers, that is to say Question Time, and I will just make sure that Malene Ambo-Rasmussen is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150345	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150347	Thank you for that, President. I had heard that the President announced a break, so I thought it took a little longer than that. But good, we're here. Does the Minister think that if the documents have not been read, one can renounce responsibility as a minister for the consequences of a decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150406	Thank you for the question, or first of all thank you for... [Sound emission].
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150420	We're rolling with the technique here. Then we'll give the minister full speaking time. I think that'll be wise. And now we'll start the time over again. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150524	Thank you, and thank you for the question, which is of course an interesting question in legal terms. There are two kinds of ministerial responsibility: political and legal. After all, the political responsibility lies in the final paragraph of Paragraph 15 of the Constitution. 1 on a motion of censure against a minister. As far as legal liability is concerned, it follows from section 5 of the Ministerial Responsibility Act. 1, which shows that a minister shall be punished if he or she is then liable to pay or to pay seriously for the duties incumbent upon him by virtue of the basic law or the law, in addition, or according to the nature of his or her post. The question is whether I believe that, as a minister, responsibility for the consequences of a decision can be waived if you have not read the documents. In terms of political responsibility, the answer is, of course, that it is up to the Folketing. This is how parliamentarianism works in Denmark. In relation to legal liability, it depends on an assessment of the law of ministerial responsibility, and in the end it is a concrete assessment of evidence which, according to Article 16 of the Constitution, the Court of Justice is responsible for carrying out. However, as I have said, legal ministerial responsibility in any case presupposes that the Minister has acted deliberately or grossly negligently. It is in this context, among other things. According to the State literature, there will not in general be any special requirement for the Minister to question or seek out further factual and/or legal information. In particular, no such requirement could be made in cases where an explanation has been given by the official body which does not raise the issue. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150700	Here you go, Mrs. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150702	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. After all, it is very good that the Minister reads from the law of ministerial responsibility. In fact, I asked the Minister because I would like to hear what the Minister himself thinks that a minister should answer for, and if, as a minister, you have not read documents as relevant and serious as you have to say that this was the case here, then perhaps I think that the Minister has a problem that is greater than that. In other words, to make a decision to close an entire profession and then simply refuse to deal with it, I think is strongly, strongly critical. In fact, my question is very, very simple and the answer really does not have to be something to be read, sketched out, from some legislation. I would just like the Minister to answer in a very sober manner, with just a yes or no: are you not responsible as a minister for supporting documents that you have approved, even if you have not read them?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150802	That is the trick on page 1 of the political foundation: try to force someone to answer yes or no to a question which cannot be answered yes or no. And it is not that easy, and it will even be linked to the fact that a question is being asked about a situation which is under investigation by the committee of inquiry, in which I certainly do not think that as a minister I should interfere in the work of the Commission as long as it does its work. The problem is that the question has been formulated and I assume that it is the questioner himself who has done so so that the question is asked to account and there are simply only two kinds of responsibility: there is the political or there is the legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150839	Thank you. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150840	Thank you, and thank you again for your answer. Now it is the case that when you come to the Chamber, you have the expectation that the Minister will answer the questions, and the Minister will have to do so, and I do not want that discussion about the fact that you will not reply to anything according to the Commission's work, because press meetings and everything else have been held. So my question is actually quite simple: are you not responsible as Minister for supporting documents that you have approved, regardless of whether you have read them or not? It is a question that can be answered yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150912	Well, it's the same question again. There are two kinds of responsibilities: political and legal, and political, of course, of those parties who want to assess whether political responsibility can be exercised, and this is happening all the time. The legal framework must be assessed according to the rules that exist, and it cannot be reduced to saying that you look at big things, for example. the calculation or the other conditions which must be met in order to incur liability.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150939	The last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110150940	Yes, the Minister himself mentioned that this includes, among other things: is a political responsibility, and the Minister has the highest and leading political responsibility in this respect. Therefore, it is a very relevant question to ask a minister and it can be answered very, very briefly with yes or no. As a minister, is it not responsible for supporting documents, regardless of whether it is relevant and serious or not, which is approved and passed on to the system as a minister? Is it not the responsibility of the Minister to examine these documents in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151010	After all, the question changed its character when new premises were introduced, and that requires an independent and different assessment of how the answer is to fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151018	Thank you. The question is over. We will continue with questions to the Minister of Justice, but now it is Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151028	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151032	Thank you. The question is this: will the Minister, in view of the fact that text messages were also part of the work of the Instructor's Commission, the Tibet Commission and the Tax Affairs Commission, indicate whether it is not misleading and misleading at the press conference on 3 November 2021 to present the request of the Minkkommission to receive text messages as something extraordinary and new?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151058	Thank you for the question. I can start by reassuring the questioner that he was not misled at last week's press conference. The Mink Commission has chosen a fundamentally different approach to obtaining text messages from previous commissions. What the Commission has done differently is that it has broadly and generally chosen to obtain unregistered text messages which could be relevant to the investigation. The Ministry of Justice has explained this in the answer to Question No. 183 of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs, which was sent to the Danish Parliament earlier this week. This does not mean that text messages have never been received in previous Commission investigations. Text messages will, of course, be made to the extent that they have been recorded. In addition, there are, for example: have been issued text messages following specific requests from commissions or from persons who have themselves contacted the Commission to obtain them. It is, after all, well from a broad and general request to receive text messages that are not recorded. So, no, I do not think it is misleading or misleading to present the request of the Mink Commission as a new approach to previous Commission investigations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151210	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151211	The reason for asking the question is that the press conference held on 3 November 2021, last week, about the minkskandalen, had the content that I am referring to here, that is to say, in connection with the many questions raised at the press conference, it came out from both the Minister for Justice and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister repeated yesterday that they had never received text messages before. At least this was clear to the puzzling people. And I think that if mr. And Mrs Jensen, who was sitting and following that press conference, was asked whether what the Minister of Justice is saying here today was what was expressed at the press conference, so I think that Mr. and Mrs Jensen had said that no, it was not. What was said at the press conference was that it was brand new that the Mink Commission had asked for text messages. But when the case is that the work of both the Instructor's Commission, the Tibet Commission and the Tax Affairs Commission actually included recorded text messages, it is a little strange that it appears that this was not the case and that it was done again yesterday when the Danish Parliament dealt with this matter. In addition to the fact that the Mink Commission had asked for text messages in broad terms, the minister said so just now. But it has actually been agreed with the Mink Commission that it is up to the employees themselves now to review their phones in order to find relevant text messages to the extent that they can be obtained at all. So I am actually wondering what the Minister of Justice is saying today, because it is said that it is a broad wish, but it has been agreed with the Mink Commission that it is not a broad wish, but that it is specific to some individual text messages that you would like to obtain, namely the text messages that the employees themselves provide and where they say that this one should be seen by the Mink Commission. So there is something contradictory in it, and it is for the citizen that we are misleading about what is up and down in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151421	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151422	No, there isn't. And what lies in the fact that it is broad and general is that you ask out to a wider circle of people. Then it is true that, because you do so, you have to note that there will be an incredible amount of material, and then you ask the Commission in a longer dialogue how it should be done and end up on the model that the Commission also agrees to, namely that those who have the texts will review them and send those who are relevant to the Commission. If the commission isn't comfortable with it, it can control all the text messages. But it's sort of agreed in accordance with the commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151453	Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151454	When I say that what our two good ministers, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice, say at the press conference is misleading, it is because it is said that this Commission is completely different. It is quite different because we are interested in text messages here, and the other commissions have not done so. I would just like to ask the Minister again: will the Minister not recognise that texts were included in the work of previous Commissions? And will the Minister not state here that when a system has been agreed whereby individual employees have to hand over the text messages, that is contrary to what the government has said?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151533	Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151534	No, what I have said is not that no text messages have been made in other commissions; I have said that the fact that there is this broad and general approach where you want to catch up with the full range of text messages from many employees is new, compared to what it used to be. That, of course, is also why we have had to find out what the procedure for this is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151558	Peter Skaarup, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151559	Then I would like to ask: can we then get an answer as to how it makes sense at all that some staff are asked to give out text messages which they have already assessed should not be reported, so that they were not relevant to decision-making in relation to these matters? I have to admit that it is totally grotesque for me to put it together in this way, because employees who have already considered that a text message should not go on should now be put to assess whether the text should now proceed. Can the Minister not see that something is wrong here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151633	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151634	I guess that's one of the reasons why it came a little as a surprise that the commission in this way asked broadly and generally to get relevant text messages from such a wide range of employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151654	The question is over, but we will continue with both the Minister and the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151659	Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup for reading the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151702	The next question is this: will the Minister state whether it is appropriate, in the Minister's view, for the Ministry of Justice and the Prime Minister's Office to continue or start a practice of automatic deletion of key persons' texts after the establishment of the independent investigation group on the handling of covid-19 in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151723	Thank you for the question. The Prime Minister denied at a press conference last week that it was also mentioned in the question before the setting up of the telephones to automatically delete messages after 30 days has been justified by the Mink Commission or in the case of the removal of mink at all. The Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Justice have answered some written questions confirming the picture that the setting up of the telephones has nothing to do with the Mink Commission's investigation, or any other investigation for that matter. At the press conference, the Prime Minister also stated that it was the Prime Minister's assumption that the recommendation on the Prime Minister's phone had been made in the summer of 2020. Then the questioner has got the idea that the setup of the phone has had something to do with the reduction of the independent investigation under the leadership of Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen, who examined the handling of the covid-19 in the spring of 2020. And so the conspiracy continues. Now, if you imagined there was no texting missing, would the conspiracy go on whether you had been told anything verbally? One might think that the questioner and his colleagues are primarily concerned with keeping the government politically suspicious. A suspicion which, I believe, does not stand up to reality. Is there anything to suggest that the setting up of the telephones in question has had something to do with Greenhouse's investigation? No, there isn't. It appears that Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen has even been in the media saying that text messages were not part of the investigation and that it was a decision of the investigation group. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151858	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110151859	Thank you for the floor. Well, the reason is that you have this press conference where a number of questions are asked about the minkskandalen. And it is said by the Prime Minister that by the summer of 2020 she was advised by her department chief to delete text messages automatically after 30 days. That was the deadline that began. Then the Prime Minister also informed that the Prime Minister's Office assumed that the automatic deletion of text messages was initiated at that time. Interestingly, it is precisely in the months around that time that an independent investigation team was set up on the handling of covid-19 in Denmark, by the way, a group that the Social Democrats were very opposed to it, and one behaved almost as unruly children when we had to decide on this. Until then, a majority appeared along with the Radicals who were in favour of it. And then you had to join when it came to the play. Also, it can be said that it may seem a bit interesting to us who have followed it here closely that this timing of when text messages appear to start to be deleted in the Prime Minister's Office for four senior employees, including the Prime Minister, well that's about that time. In other words, with the exception of the head of department, who says that she entered the job with a deletion mechanism called 30 days. So, on this basis, we think it is appropriate to ask the Minister again why it continued, or started, depending on the time it took, we cannot really get to know exactly what an automatic deletion practice is after the establishment of the investigation group. And whether the Minister really thinks it appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152103	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152105	Well, I understand this about chasing the government and the Prime Minister, and so on. But in fact, I would like to ask you back if Mr. Peter Skaarup really believes that officials will delete text messages to delete things that could be relevant in a case to investigate. In other words, it is an outrageous mistrust of our officials, especially because it has no connection whatsoever with any facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152142	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152143	Well, when you get that thought, and we find out what's up and down in it, when you hopefully recover these texts, it's because it's really weird that four ministers or four employees, including the Prime Minister, have this mechanism. However, there are not really other ministers who are aware of a very safe deletion of text messages. Can the Minister of Justice not see that it is suspicious that there are four leading staff members sitting with their fingers deep down in this case that are deleting and that no other ministers are doing so?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152218	In fact, I think that when the course described, including by the Prime Minister as it is, we are in fact a place where it can be said that the theory that there should be such a connection with the Mink Commission or the Grønnegårdskommissionen, we can put aside. Because it just doesn't work out. And then again, I think that we really should be careful about this and one thing is the discussion that we can have politically and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152256	Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152257	I have two questions. One is: What is the Minister of Justice's comment that Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen, who was in charge of this investigation group, says that if he had known about the conditions he knows today, he would have liked to have texted in this investigation group? Ergo should have texted from the start, of course. The second question is whether the Minister will explain why the security of automatic deletion of text messages is apparently no longer valid since yesterday's Prime Minister announced that text messages will no longer be deleted after 30 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152333	I think you might want to keep your tongue right in your mouth there, compared to what Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen has said. Because as I understand it, he has been in the media saying that text messages were not part of the investigation and that it was a decision of the investigation group. So it was a deliberate choice to say that we do not need to serve that source.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152355	Thank you for that, the question is closed. Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup and thank the Minister for Justice. We move on, and now that is the question to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly by Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152404	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152406	Thank you for that, President. What new ideas or views has the hearing on the family justice system given rise to for the Minister on 28 October 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152417	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152418	Thank you. I was not present at the hearing myself, but I have had the various presentations and the debate referred to. The purpose of the hearing was • and I quote • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • to highlight the problems of the family law system so that politicians have a qualified insight into how the system works, as well as knowledge of the legal consequences it may have for a parent when he loses contact with his children. I fully agree that it is a good thing that we, as politicians, have a qualified insight into how family law reform works in practice. That is why I also invited the committee to visit the Family Court House in September, where some of the employees who deal with the cases told us how to work, among other things. with the very conflicting issues that are most relevant to the debate. And, following several consultations, I have sent the committee various material on the reform and how the system responds to the problem of cooperation. Finally, I have announced that we are going to take a status meeting on the Family Court House first in the new year, when, in addition to the status of settling cases and waiting times, we can also discuss other issues that concern you. It has often been seen that, in the wake of a major reform such as this, there may be a need to adjust and adapt certain things, and therefore I am happy to listen and accept suggestions and input. However, I understand that during the hearing proposals were also made for more fundamental changes to the system, for example. changes in the assignment between the Family Court House and the family courts, and that the issue of guilt for conflicts was also raised again. I have expressed my views on these very issues in several consultations and in the discussion of motions for resolutions, and my position has not changed. I continue to believe that major changes to the reform should await the evaluation of the system which the agreement on the new system has decided to initiate, and then I insist that we will always stand on the side of the child in the very conflicting divorces. I look forward to our status meeting first in the new year and to turning the reform around with you in that room.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152614	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152615	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for your reply. In the Left, we are in complete agreement. Of course, you always have to be on the child's side, including in these cases. Now the Minister himself mentioned this with the consequences of legal certainty, and our hearing, in this way, started with a personal report from a father. Now we only heard one report, and that was due to time pressure, because we have had numerous examples ■ and I think that the Minister has certainly also been from both mothers and fathers who are stuck in this system with great consequences for their family life, their daily lives and their working lives and also with great legal consequences. That is also why I have called the Minister in today, because I cannot find anything from the Minister for Family Justice. The Minister has simply not spoken since 19 August, and that is why I thought it was a welcome opportunity for this hearing to hear what is new. That is why I also have a few specific questions I would like to ask. I also hear that the Minister is open to us adjusting this reform, because it is precisely a major and very life-threatening reform for both children and parents in this system. But the situation is really, really serious, because we are seeing some of these cases with these terrible events, and that applies both to the father and to the mother, but ultimately the child suffers. I would really like to hear the Minister's views on the discussion we had over many times during the hearing and which I suppose the Minister is fully aware of, namely the discussion on supervised association. We have discussed this in the past, including in consultation, and the question is: should there not always be some sort of supervised or contact-preserving association in these matters, precisely because we can see that the child is in the long run in danger of losing contact with one parent?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152807	Thank you. At no time will I have been heard neglecting the seriousness of the long waits. This is, of course, a consequence of our having a new divorce system, which was negotiated under the previous government and entered into force shortly before the elections and which turned out to be very underfunded. That is why it was born with long waiting times, and that is why we have even set aside very large funds for two successive financial laws to reduce the waiting times, and fortunately it seems that it is going exactly as planned. So here we've taken responsibility. There is, of course, a possibility, and we have also discussed this earlier today, of establishing association.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152843	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152844	Then I can really end up repeating the question. However, with regard to the under-financing, I would just like to say that the additional funds have just been set aside. Well, we were up to spending over 0.5 billion. kr., I think, in one of the estimates years at the Family Court House. So maybe I think we should be careful not to talk about it being a system that is underfunded, so maybe we should look at what we really need to have adjusted in the reform. For there are at least many other areas, including: The area of disability where we cannot say that we are just adding more and more per year. automatic. I would still like a clear and concrete answer from the Minister in relation to the matter of supervised or contact-preserved association, i.e. whether it is something that we should continue to work on as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152919	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152921	Yes, it is the government and the Finance Parties that have allocated these funds, so in relation to the matter of 'we', it is certainly something where, if they were present, I should thank the Finance Parties for having found that funding. Under the law, a temporary decision on association can already be taken while the case is being dealt with. Contact-preserving association was something that was introduced with the harassment package I think it was back in 2015. It is not determined if it is not considered to be the best for the child. So if what the questioner from the Left asks me is whether I think we should do away with it, so that it should always be fixed, I have to say: no, I think it is right that we stick to the idea that it should be the best thing for the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152959	Here's the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110152959-2	In relation to the temporary decision, it is very good that it is written down, but the problem is that out in the real world you have parents who return and tell you that for some people they are completely heartbreaking that they are losing contact with one or more children for the rest of their lives. Of course, this is a very violent consequence of the fact that you do not per. automatics have some kind of contact-preserved or supervised association, as long as the accusations from these parents fly through the air.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153030	I have also asked the Left on several occasions, in consultation, what the Left is actually proposing. Today we have a principle that states that it can be fixed unless it will not be the best for the child. We're gonna protect the baby. It's terrible to be a child in these very conflicting divorces. It is also terrible for adults, but it is very awful for a child who is without blame for it. And that is why it is a crucial principle that we should protect the child. And if that's not what the Left is going to do, then I still don't understand what the Left is aiming for. Because in terms of automatics, it is the case that today you have to apply. Is it just an automatic thing you want, or do you also want us to remove this guard where we protect the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153106	The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen and to the Minister. We're moving on to a question to the Secretary of Defense, and that's Mr. Knox. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left, who asks the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153117	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153118	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it is a sensible disposal of the Defence's funds and that it contributes positively to the development of Denmark's defence capabilities, including Denmark's commitments to NATO, when the Defence uses the funds set aside in the Defence Agreement for 2018-2023 to provide the Defence with a substantial boost, for example. improvement of sewage collection, ref. Weekendavisen's article on "Deputy for money brought on 11 May 2021, and how does the Minister feel that this financial disposition is in line with the fact that the Frømand Corps has to remove next year's removal of new seedlings for financial reasons, despite the fact that it is part of the same defence agreement that the number of special operations forces has to be increased by more than 50 per cent. during the conciliation period, i.e. before the end of 2023? I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153208	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153209	I would like to begin by saying that I believe that there should be a lot of care to be taken with regard to the maintenance of buildings against employees. They are each other's prerequisites. The Defence Command has stated that it has gone well, very well even, with the reinforcement of the Frogman Corps on the crew side even faster than anticipated. With the intake from the latest team, the Frogman Corps actually has more frogmen than there should be in the operational structure. Thus, right now, the Frogman Corps lives up to the settlement's demand to significantly increase the number of operators. On the second part of the question, I would like to say that proper facilities and building maintenance, including sewerage, are a prerequisite for defence to be able to focus on training and defence building. Unforeseen expenditure on sewerage and other critical building maintenance is rarely something that should be postponed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153310	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153311	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am glad to hear about the frogmen... that it makes sense to reach the goal. So I am really glad that the Minister is responding today. As the Minister could perhaps guess, this is a bit of a follow-up to the criticism we also had of the Minister in the spring when it comes to changing it, in other words spending money in relation to the defence settlement in a way that does not fall within the objectives we have in the defence settlement, without involving the conciliation circle. The same can be said here about the history of the Frogman Corps, where there are also some relocations which, as we have seen in the media, could have had an impact on the objectives of the defence settlement. So I really want to hear from the Minister whether she doesn't understand this desire from us in the conciliation circle that one gets involved when there are things that work at least when we read about it in the media, as if it could influence the achievement of the objectives of the defence settlement, rather than having to read about it in the media.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153413	I do not think I want to put the questioner's mind to the fact that I will comment on everything in the media. That would be very demeaning. And I do not know what this lack of structure is to which the questioner refers, because I have just replied that with the intake from the latest team there are actually more frogmen in the Frogman Corps than there should be in the operational structure, and the Frogman Corps is living up to what has been agreed in the conciliation, namely to increase the number of operators. But there is, of course, the fact that you cannot say exactly how many people go through the training and pass, and that, of course, also affects how many you have to take on the subsequent teams.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153454	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153456	Thank you for your answer. After all, in the spring some funds were redistributed to sewers without the conciliation circle being included in it. So I would like to ask further: will the Minister promise that the conciliation circle will be included in the future before decisions are taken on savings or other matters which may affect the achievement of the objectives of the defence settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153523	I find that the line of defense is unlikely to be very much informed of what is going on. But the Ministry of Defence's area is also a huge organization, so if you are going in as a conciliation circle every time there is a sewer pipe that jumps or there is a door or window that needs to be changed, it will be very pernicious. I think it makes sense that the sewers that do not work have been built. I think that is sensible, not least because I know that it is a great inconvenience for employees when it does not work. And that's where I trust the heads of the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153602	Here's the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153603	After all, it is no secret that we have problems achieving our objectives from the defence settlement and the strengths that NATO is asking us to achieve. The Minister does not think so if, for example, is a backlog from housing or renovation of sewers, that it was better that we sat down and had a talk about how we could find some money for it than that we take money away from the capacity that NATO is asking us to live up to?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153631	I think it has to be said that it was a very optimistic settlement that was reached last time, and the questioner also knows very well that just being able to deliver part of the equipment that is planned to be purchased is problematic because it is not shelf goods that you can just buy. There's a production line that you have to get into. So I think it has to be said that it was a very, very ambitious settlement that was reached last time. It must be such in a large organization that when there are sewers that are acutely broken, then you can repair them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153706	Thank you. The question is over. And thank you, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. We'll continue with a question for the Secretary of Defense, but now it's Mr. Kim. Mark Grossmann, Left, who is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153715	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153717	Thank you. A survey carried out by the DR shows that 75 per cent of the population in the United Kingdom are in the United Kingdom. of the country's municipalities experience that the number of cyberattacks has increased to the last 5 years, the City of Odense has been at the forefront of this particular problem and introduced back in 2018 a major initiative against cyberattacks, does the Minister find the opportunity to be inspired by this Odense cybermodel and spread this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153741	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153742	Thank you for the question. It is a very relevant subject to be raised in this Chamber, and I would like to thank the questioner for that. For the cybertrustle is serious, and Danish authorities and companies and citizens are attacked every day. I also know that the questioner is very aware of that. That is why the attention of all authorities and citizens is important. It is the individual authorities that are responsible for cybersecurity, and therefore there is a great deal of reason to commend the City of Odense for its preventive action against the cyber-russe. It is very positive that the City of Odense as an authority is making a dedicated effort to strengthen cybersecurity, and this is an example from which all Danish authorities and municipalities can benefit from inspiration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153829	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153831	I understand that the Secretary of Defense recognises that cyberattacks, among others. in the municipality is an increasing problem. And I'm glad. Personally, I will go so far as to claim that today cyber attacks have probably overtaken gunpowder and bullets with lengths. Does Minister also recognise that cyber attacks in the future can become more difficult to deal with?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153850	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153851	There's no doubt that cyberattacks are here. This is not something that will happen in the future, cyberattacks are a reality and, as I said before, Denmark is attacked citizens, authorities and companies on a daily basis or tried the attack. So there's such a reason to pay attention to this problem. This is also the background to the great cyber agreement that was concluded just before the summer and which, of course, strengthens the area significantly. But this isn't something that the State or Department of Defense and Center for Cybersecurity can lift alone. It requires municipalities to join the field and that companies also take responsibility for their own cybersecurity. And in that light, there is such a reason to commend the initiative of the City of Odense.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153938	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110153939	I am also very much in favour of politicians being at the forefront of security so that they do not react until the headlines are published. My position is also that responsibility should be removed, among other things. to the municipalities, and I also believe that they have an obligation to shout when they have a good solution. I therefore believe that we should call for a map of the good Let us bring them into the light so that other municipalities and interest groups can be inspired. Could the Minister consider creating spaces in which municipalities and organisations can share knowledge about cyberattacks? And has the Minister already thought about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154018	In fact, a number of different groups have been set up that work together across authorities. There are also set up groups where companies provide advice and guidance and find best practice. So I certainly think it is important to stick to that track and include the very best examples from the municipalities. And then I have to say that, in the end, this is also about priorities. After all, it is about visionary local politicians and visionary business leaders putting it on the agenda, because it is also about prioritising financial resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154055	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154056	Back in 2018, I took the initiative for a proposal in Odense City Council, which was intended to tighten up the prevention of cyber attacks in Odense Municipality. I am aware that the problem of cyberattacks in relation to municipalities is spreading across several ministries. However, I need just to hear the Minister for Defence whether she will do her part to lift the responsibility so that we can get the good examples out to other municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154124	In fact, I believe that the questioner should be commended for taking that initiative. It is really important that there is a local political focus on this area and that it is lifted out in the respective town councils across the country. What is the Cybersecurity Centre, which is the responsible authority, among other things. Doing is besides monitoring the attacks that might be making instructions. And I think this is very useful for the municipalities, that is, that best practice and good advice have been prepared which the municipalities can lean on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154157	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Secretary of Defense and to Mr. Mark Grossmann from the Left. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154210	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154211	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the fact that various municipalities include: The municipality of Lolland organises special electoral arrangements, electoral buses and free bus transport to the polling stations as a special effort towards immigrants and descendants in order to get their voting percentage for municipal and regional elections to be higher?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154243	Thank you for the question. I would like to mention at the outset, for the sake of good order, that the issue of the running of elections and the rules for participation in elections are the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior. But basically, I regard high turnout as a health indicator for a strong democracy, and here we in Denmark should generally be proud of a high turnout. And I also hope that everyone will use their democratic right and duty to vote on 16 November for the municipal and regional elections. The question here today actually contains a more fundamental question. Should it be necessary at all to have targeted efforts to increase the turnout of the elections for immigrants and descendants alone? Here's my answer, at least no. It should not be necessary to interpret electoral meetings or to make special arrangements for citizens who, for many, have lived in Denmark for decades. I do not want to hide the fact that I think that we should always think very carefully before linking the solution to a fundamental democratic problem, such as the lack of participation in elections with ethnicity. I am instinctively opposed to that. I would like everyone in Denmark to live up to their civil duty, jump out as convinced democrats and throw themselves over the ballot boxes. But, of course, special efforts that make more people participate and hopefully understand the value of participating in democracy can be part of the response to the low turnout. For example, I have. even made such efforts in technical schools, because the turnout from there is not the highest but it was not translated into Arabic either.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154428	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154429	Thank you. I mean, it's amazing how this government is trying to walk on two legs. Isn't the Minister aware that the government itself has helped to allocate money to this in the latest Finance Act? 5 million kr. It has entered into this with open eyes, and now the Minister is saying that not, I may not think it is a great idea. We want everyone to vote, but this idea may not be so good. But the Minister himself has helped to allocate money to it, and there was no hiding of what it was going to be used for. It was supposed to be used for electoral buses. 25 municipalities use electoral buses. Experts in these areas are saying quite plainly and I think that is purely speech... that it is a complete distortion of the debate. And of course people have to go and vote, of course they have to. We are all interested in the rule of the people and democratic formation, but that is not something we should pander to in relation to immigrants, that is to say, be a nanny. That's something they need to find out. They are also descendants. Even after many years of living in Denmark, you can't find out, and you need help. I just wanted to say that the Minister is not aware of the fact that the government and the Minister are in government... himself has helped to grant 5 million. kr. For this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154541	Yes, I am aware that this is part of the agreement in relation to Finance Act 2021. A total of 5 million has been set aside. kr. for electoral buses. The purpose of the pool is to support the use of electoral buses in the municipal and regional elections here in 2021. That is, for example, the case. to say that people who live far away from an election place must have better opportunities to get to an election place. It is also to increase turnout among some of the groups that we know have low turnouts. That is also why I say in my speech that I think it is a pity that we are in a place where some people think it is necessary to take this kind of action for people who are poorly integrated into Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154623	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154624	Well, I just need to know if this is something the government wants to withdraw. There will be a municipal elections again in four years' time, and you could say at once that we are not doing that anymore, and that is the end of it. Because that's a little what I hear the Minister say. Anyway, it's double standards, so it's clumsy. What you do in the municipality of Lolland is not only an electoral bus. Election meetings are held alone with people of other ethnic origin. It translates into Arabic what needs to be said and said at these electoral meetings. You make brochures in foreign languages, i.e. in Arabic and other foreign languages, and that is for people who have lived here for a long time. There will probably also be a number of Danish citizens between, although one does not necessarily have to be a Danish citizen in order to vote for local elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154710	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154711	We are fully in line with the Financial Law Agreement that has been concluded. In my speech I am trying to explain what I think of there being a problem of low turnout among some groups in Denmark because of poor integration. I think that is a problem, and I think it is a pity that we are in a situation where some people think it is necessary. I have no objection to campaigns being made to raise the turnout for pensioners, it may be for young people, it may be for socially marginalised groups, it may also be in certain residential areas where there are also many immigrants. What I think is problematic is, if you think it is necessary to increase electoral participation, that you, for example, should be able to do so. Says that now we're doing a campaign...). I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154757	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154758	Well, that's what's happening, and that's what I'm asking. That's exactly what's happening. And this is therefore problematic in relation to the fact that the Minister and the government themselves have granted money to ensure that this is the case. May I say straight away that I am very interested in everyone going to vote. I love the rule of the people. I think it is wonderful that we in Denmark have the opportunity for everyone to vote, and I think everyone should do that wherever you vote. That's just not what's happening. Unfortunately, there have been plenty of descendants who have lived for a long time and, in fact, the low turnout has increased in relation to descendants, and I find this extremely problematic. But the thing about driving around in an election bus and doing everything in a foreign language is quite, quite, way up. I have to ask the Minister again. Is that something you want to withdraw? Is that something you want to repeat? And may I say that with regard to retired people or people who are ill walking, it has always been the case in Denmark that they were helped. That is a completely different problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154851	Then it's the minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154852	It is clear that if the questioner wants a detailed account of exactly the pool allocated under Finance Law 2021, I must refer to the Ministry of the Interior, which can go into the details of it a little more. I am trying to tell you what I think in general, namely that I do not think it should be the case that it is necessary to translate anything for people who, for many, have been in the country for decades. And I acknowledge that raising the turnout can be a task for a municipality... I think it's worth all honour... but it's just very important that it's not done to influence the election result, other than the percentage that's about the turnout.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154928	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. We will continue with the same person, now as Minister of Employment. It's sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party, who will ask the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154929	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110154948	Thank you for that, President. I would like to ask the question: does the Minister have an opinion as to whether there is enough control at Danish airports to detect social fraud with Danish social security benefits during stays abroad, for example in Middle Eastern countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155007	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by stating that it is, of course, totally unacceptable when someone cheats on their social benefits, because it undermines the cohesion of our society, and unfortunately the results of the airport inspectorate confirm the need for this control. At the same time, it is important to maintain that it is the responsibility of the municipalities and the cashiers to monitor that citizens are available for the labour market and comply with the rules. The airport monitoring authority is an additional control. The Airport Supervisory Authority is widely present at the Danish airports and, with the 2018 sanction agreement, we introduced stricter sanctions against citizens who do not comply with the rules for receiving social benefits in connection with stay abroad. Of course, we can always discuss whether there should be more controls at Danish airports, and that is ultimately a political priority. I think it is important to be aware that airport controls also have a preventive effect which discourages citizens from travelling abroad with their social benefits. That effect is enhanced when the media, for example. communicating on the results of airport controls, and this may in fact have a greater effect than can be achieved by increasing the number of controls carried out. In the proposal for the Finance Act 2022 the Government has just put forward the proposal to negotiate this up to Christmas to continue the increased grant to the airport inspectorate, which we agreed on in 2018. With it, we expect to be able to carry out 52 checks annually, i.e. if our draft financial regulation in this area comes through. These 52 controls are considered to be a reasonable amount, bearing in mind that this is an additional control and that stricter sanctions have been imposed for citizens who do not respect the rules of stay abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155149	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155150	Thank you. After all, this airport control is something that we in the Danish People's Party were able to implement at the time, and it has also been extended subsequently. It has turned out that a lot of people leave without informing the job centre, the cashiers, that they go on holiday, even if they are not allowed. There are also many people who have gone on vacation longer than they normally do on holiday, and that is especially for Middle Eastern countries. It is not so good, then, because if you do, you will be cheating on taxpayers' money, which is paid out in either cash or cash benefits, other benefits, or whatever you get. In this respect, we must just say that the controls that have been carried out at the airport have of course been slowed down by the coronasmit, and we fully understand that, we are well aware of that, but now we have been opened up again, and we can look at the current figures, that in the third quarter there were 228 that were reported, and in the fourth quarter there are 97 so far. These are signs that the figures are increasing because it is only until 25 October. Of course we have a problem, because from those papers it is also clear that it is only at Copenhagen Airport, because so far, because of corona, we have not been able to keep distance and such things at other airports. But does the Minister expect that only Copenhagen Airport will run it for the rest of the year? Now you start with coronapas and stuff like that again. I do not think there will be any restrictions on air travel, but does the Minister expect that it will only be in Copenhagen, or will the Minister also think that it will be extended to Billund and Aalborg Airports in terms of the control that is going to happen, or what does it look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155353	Airport control will be extended as soon as possible to smaller airports in Denmark. I would like to say that, although the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party do not agree on everything, it was a good idea that the Danish People's Party got in 2018, it is a good deal. It is also part of the agreement that if you have been away for more than 14 days and have raised social benefits, and if the reimbursement requirement is at least DKK 30,000, it must be reported to the police. It's a refund claim that drops just under 10,000 kroner. In a couple of years. This will probably also lead to more police reports, and I think that is also sensible. Airport control, as it is now, opened this summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155433	I can see that there is also cooperation with Customs & Tax, because they said that they had referred some that had not been caught in airport controls but which Customs & Tax had caught when entering Denmark. There are also a number of issues there, and I should like to hear about this in connection with cooperation with Customs & Tax: is there going to be an extension of that cooperation, so that you look more at who Customs & Tax prisoners, or what is it like there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155508	I simply do not dare to answer that here, but I promise to come back with it because, as the questioner also says, we know that the tax authorities are also present, especially at Copenhagen Airport, and it is perfectly natural that there should be cooperation between authorities. But what the answer is to the specific question, I have to promise to come back with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155527	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155528	However, as I understand it, the Minister does not believe that control needs to be extended here and now. Is that how it's supposed to be understood? Well, you go on with what's there for the time being, maybe until we're all over the corona. Or what does it look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155541	In our draft budget, we propose that this increased appropriation, which is now in place, should be continued, so it can be said that this is at the existing level. But if there had not been the budget bill from the government, it would have fallen away here from 1 January. We would like to maintain what is an elevated level, because we think that the figures show that it is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155601	Thank you. The question has been answered. We will continue with questions from Mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155609	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155609-2	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Does the Minister have any political ideas for tougher sanctions against those who take their social benefits abroad for a longer period exceeding a normal holiday in a few weeks?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155624	As my previous answer showed, I find it totally unacceptable when some people cheat on their social benefits. The question is whether there is a need for stricter sanctions against those who are going on a long-term stay abroad, in other words over two weeks. Unfortunately, it is not possible to identify, on the basis of the registrations made in connection with airport supervision, whether it is a short or a longer stay abroad. We are only aware that citizens have been abroad. However, the long-term stays of more than 14 days were at the heart of the agreement reached by the Social Democratic Party in 2018 with the then bourgeois government and the Danish People's Party on more simple and stricter sanctions. Here we tightened the sanctions for people who have been receiving aid while abroad without justification and against better knowledge. On the one hand, we significantly tightened the financial sanctions against citizens, and on the other hand, we obliged municipalities to report to the police if they have been unduly staying abroad for more than 14 days on their social benefits. The new requirements came into force on 1 January, and we have therefore only had a very limited period in which the new rules have actually been in force because of the coronapandemic and the sluggish travel activity. So we have already used the big hammer against all those who cheat. However tough sanctions we have, there may still be citizens who take the chance, and it is precisely for this reason that it is important that we stick to the airport inspectorate, and I also believe that we should be pleased with the mention made by the airport inspectorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155744	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155745	It's great that there's some publicity. If it can deter anyone from leaving illegally, it's only good. And part of the purpose of that is also that people should be aware that you cannot just leave, because the trap slams if you are caught illegally and take cash or cash benefits with you. I need to hear from the Minister about something in this regard. Because when you look at the numbers that have come, we don't see how many have been going for one week, two weeks or longer. Is it possible to make an inventory of how long those who have been sanctioned have been going, i.e. whether it is only 1-2 weeks of regular holiday and how many have been going for a long time? It is also difficult for us to see how many people have actually been on cash benefits and how many on cash benefits, but also whether some have been on some other benefits that they are not allowed to take out. It could, for example, be done. be the self-supporting and repatriation allowance. Anyone left on vacation anyway, even if they're on it? It could be. But can the Minister arrange for an inventory to be drawn up, which service has been given to those who have been caught and how long they have been going? This might be useful for the sake of how the effort is to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155915	First of all, I am quite convinced that we can tell you what kind of benefit people have been on. The second, namely how long they have been gone, unfortunately I do not have any information about, because they are not being collected in connection with the airport inspectorate. From the figures we have seen from the autumn, we cannot tell how long journeys people have been on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155944	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110155944-2	I find that a little difficult to understand, because how long they've been gone is what decides how much they have to pay back. If they have received an unjustified benefit for 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks or 4 weeks, that is what they have to pay back. So somewhere information has to lie so that you know how long they've been going. Otherwise, you cannot enforce it and give them the penalty they must have for their repayment. If you do not know how long they have been going, where else would you get the figures to decide how much they have to pay back?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160017-2	Yes, but that is because those who report to the public are the municipalities, and that does not necessarily mean that that information is central. However, I would like to examine how far down we can go in order to qualify for a discussion on whether supervision should be organised in a different way. That is really how I hear the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160041	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160042	Okay, well, I get it... at the airport inspector, they're just saying that you've been unduly on your way, you're being reported. And then it is the municipality that decides what sanction should be. In this context, however, the municipality must have information on how long the person has been away and how much he has to pay back. So if it could be obtained, it would be useful.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160108-2	Yeah, now I got the word "counsel" before. I should probably have said the municipality or the coffers, but it is true that it is not the airport inspectorate that police report people and persecute the case and investigate whether there is a basis for making a police report. It is done by the municipalities and the a-box. That's their job. What the airport monitoring agreement ensures is just that there are some authorities present at the airport that randomly take people out, and those on self-residence and return are subject to exactly the same regime as others in the cash assistance system. So to the extent that they can be distinguished, I think that is also relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160146	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. We will continue with the Minister for Employment, and this time it is Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten, who is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160158	Thank you. The question is: Will the Minister comment on the article • Every other attempt to hire a nurse fails • from www.dr.dk on 5 October 2021, which describes that 3,450 posts could not be filled with a qualified nurse within 5 months, and will the Minister explain below whether he acknowledges that the challenges of recruitment and retention are related to the salaries and working conditions of nurses?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160227	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by emphasising that we in the government fully recognise that 2021 has been an extraordinary year in which health care, including nurses, had many, many major tasks and worked at a high pace for a long period of time. The nurses do this we all know a great and important job, and we need them in the Danish health care system, and we need more in the hospitals. The latest figures from the Labour Market and Recruitment Agency also speak a clear language. They show that almost half of the job vacancies as a nurse in the spring regions have not been filled after 3 months. We are looking at this with great earnestness. It is absolutely crucial that the subjects in the care sector are attractive, so that we both ensure that current employees stay in the course and that new employees want to work in the area. It is, of course, no secret that pay and working conditions generally affect the ability to maintain and recruit employees. In the care sector, both municipalities and regions such as employers also have a major and important task in ensuring that there is a good working environment that both attracts and maintains employees. We in the government have undertaken to cover the costs of demographic development. The government has also concluded an agreement with Danske Regions to increase the number of nurses in the hospitals by 1,000 by the end of 2021. And especially in relation to the issue of pay and wage structure, we have set up a pay structure committee with the participation of the social partners, which will analyse it and lay the foundations for future collective bargaining in the public sector. My chair does not see a single solution to the challenges of maintaining and recruiting staff, including nurses, to the health sector, but there is a need for joint action from many sides, and we hope that some of the actions I have mentioned here can bring us in the right direction. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160423	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160424	Thank you. I fully agree that there is no simple solution, and that is why what we are asking for is, in fact, simply that some solutions are being set out at all. Because what's the challenge right now is that it's a little hard to see what the government is gonna do to solve this challenge. It is true that, especially here in 2021, but also in 2020, it has been particularly problematic because of the covid-19, but it is also a fundamental structural problem. It is not just in health care that we see it. This is also a problem we see in the care sector and in the day-care sector. So it's in all the female-dominated welfare professions that we see this challenge. The Minister himself mentioned the figure from the Labour Market and Recruitment Agency, which shows that this year we have been up to the point that half of the posts have not been filled within three months. If we look at sosu assistants, it's 48%. of the positions, and if we look at the sosu helpers, it's 44 percent. of the posts which are not being filled. So it is a general and structural problem. That is why I just want to hear: what exactly does the government think we should do about this challenge? In fact, shortly after the intervention in the nurse's dispute, the Minister of Employment called a trialogue because there were challenges in relation to employment in the service sector. It was not only a question of looking at the issue now and here, but also in the slightly longer term. Now that the Minister acknowledges that, in relation to this issue, it is a range of solutions that are needed, will the Minister for Employment be willing to convene a trialogue so that we can look at the challenges both in the short and in the long term? Because right now it's hard to see what solutions the government is pointing to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160623	There are generally problems in Danish society with a shortage of labour. This is true both in the private and in the public sector. And, of course, when there is a shortage of labour, it hits hardest in those sectors where the challenges already existed, and one of those sectors is, after all, the health sector, where we have had employees who have been running very fast for some time. I think everyone who has put their feet in a hospital in recent years has noticed that. Therefore, I actually agree that 2021 has been a special and very extraordinary year... 2020 has also been for the Danish health sector... but it comes on top of some rather more fundamental challenges that are recruiting and maintaining people in the Danish health sector. We can see something positive in the figures, namely that more nurses are actually being trained, but it will take a while to solve the structural challenges if you look at it alone. Then we have the second, that of maintaining people, and there I myself believe that the Committee on Salaries' Structures is part of the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160720	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160723	But the problem is a little that, although more are being trained, we find that the number of nurses seeking to leave the profession has doubled in the last eight months. The nurses who then seek away indicate themselves at least 56 per cent. of them, i.e. most of them as the main reason for the wage conditions. That's why the question is how we're gonna get this done. If we do not take the initiative, for example. to call a tri-party to clarify what sort of problems are involved, what solutions could be identified. Because this is not just a matter of someone being busy and running fast; the problem is that they both run fast and then go home with the feeling that they have not delivered what was expected of them and what was sufficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160810	One party is about involving the social partners. Part of the mediation proposal that was voted down was, after all, this pay structure commission, which has now been set up by the government with the social partners. So I think this is a very concrete way of showing that the government is interested in including, among other things. Danish Nursing Council in discussions about pay. And it is not part of the terms of reference of the pay structure committee that it should be expenditure-neutral; nor does it include the cost of anything. But it is an attempt to say that we would like to try to sit seriously at the table and it is a work that has actually started now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160854	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160855	Now it is a little difficult to imagine how one could give a wage increase to those subjects where there is obviously a challenge in relation to the retention of employees, precisely in view of the fact that it is a female-dominated low-wage occupation. It is difficult to imagine how to give a wage boost if it is to be cost-neutral. In other words, there has to be some sort of statement by the government that funds will be put into it. Does the Minister not agree that it is essential for there to be a clear indication of the willingness to allocate funds for what will be necessary when the pay structure committee reports out?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160930	Maybe I was unclear. In other words, it does not include what is crucial for us is that it is handled within the framework of the Danish labour market model, even as the trade union movement itself has recommended it. That is to say, whatever comes out of this, we will try to deal with it within the framework of the fact that it has to be negotiated wages that are in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110160957	Thank you. That was the end of Question 10. The last question is also addressed to the Minister for Employment, and it has also been asked by Mr Gundelach. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161008	Thank you. And we will continue in the same vein: will the Minister recognise a link between the pay conditions of health workers and the crisis that the health system is currently experiencing, among other things. closed beds, far too few midwives on duty and begging text messages to midwives about taking more shifts, delayed breast cancer screenings and hunching from the coronapandemic, a strike and most recently RS virus outbreaks, and will the Minister explain below whether the Minister considers it responsible not to take further action on the salaries of health personnel before the end of 2022 when the Labour Structure Committee has submitted its report?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161048	Again: Thank you for the question. I must begin by pointing out that as Minister for Employment I cannot go into the desired health assessment. There I have to refer to the Minister for Health and so to say that in Denmark, as you know, it is the social partners who agree on pay and working conditions and that therefore, as an employer, municipalities and regions have a major and important task to ensure that there is a good working environment that attracts and maintains employees. As I also mentioned in the answer to the previous question, the government has already committed itself to covering the costs of demographic development, so that in future there will also be funds to recruit health workers. We have also reached an ambitious agreement with Danske Regions to increase the number of nurses in hospitals by 1,000 by the end of this year, but at the same time the government also recognises that there is a need for a common understanding and a common foundation for future collective bargaining in the public sector. I am therefore pleased that the mediation proposal in the field of nursing, which has been raised by a majority in the Folketing, contains precisely a recommendation to the government to set up a pay structure committee, and that recommendation has been followed by the government and the Labour Structure Committee is working on its work, and the expected reporting must lay the foundations for the future discussions of the social partners on wage conditions in the public sector. After all, it is not a simple task that the Labour Structure Committee has been given that I think everyone recognizes and I am glad that we have set up the committee. Members have started work and we look very seriously at the work that is now under way and the government will follow up on the reporting provided by the Labour Structure Committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161227	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161229	I can inform the Minister for Employment that last week I had the Minister for Health down here in the Chamber to answer fairly similar questions, and of course the Minister for Health referred to the Minister for Employment with regard to the coverage of the problems of wage conditions which are to be dealt with by the Committee on Labour Structures. But I'm a little worried about that. I simply believe that neither the Minister for Employment nor the Government is fully aware of how deeply this issue is, in other words, how important it is for our entire welfare society, for our health care. As far as I am concerned, it is a bomb throughout the health and welfare community that we face the challenge of not being able to hold on to the skilled staff we are training because we simply do not provide them with adequate working conditions and adequate wages, so that they are appreciated for the efforts they are making. When I hear the answer from the government, which is: yes, we cover the demography, I think that yes, it is all missing, it means that we make sure that funds are included for the tasks we order; it is not a promise, it is a question of keeping the status quo. But what is going to give that boost? What is it that is needed for employees to be confident that we will actually solve the problem they face? Is it that we set up a pay structure committee and then say that it will report in 12-14 months and that we will then not promise that money will follow, no, no. We are not saying that it must necessarily be cost-neutral, but nor do we guarantee that the problem that exists will be resolved. Is the answer that the nurses, midwives and sosu that we need today to go to work and take an extra turn must take an extra turn without us paying them anything extra for it? In other words, what exactly do the Minister and the government imagine there should be getting the workers who have delivered and who have worked hard through a corona epidemic to believe that we are actually going to give them more and more than some appeals and calls and some honey hearts, so that they can actually get a recognition and a decent salary for the extremely important work they are doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161434	Of course, it is possible to say that it lacked the government's desire to allocate more money in order to increase tasks, but that was not actually the case a few years ago, when every year the public sector was undermined by the economic policy pursued by the then government. Now, together with Enhedslisten and SF and Radiale and the Alternative, we have pursued a different economic policy, gradually for a few years, and this means that considerable amounts of resources and additional economy are being used not only for other parts of the public sector as well. It may be said that this was not enough, but it is a huge economic priority, which is not yet fully developed, but I think it is important to bear in mind that it is a huge political priority for this matter, which actually means that an extra economy is being added.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161533	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161535	I just want to put the level of ambition higher and deliver better than what previous civil and indeed social democratic governments have delivered. I have thus seen an ambition that we should at least be able to deliver something that gives a concrete experience out in reality that this is getting better, and there it is clearly the bottom that we ensure demography. But what are they going to use it for them out there on the floor, those who are running fast right now and who have the experience that they are both busy and that they are going home from work with the feeling that even today they do not strike? Well, what are we gonna give them? What do we have to give them so that they can have the hope that it will look better next year and next year again, when what we promise them is that it just won't get any worse? What is it the government wants to show up with?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161619	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161620	I think I will start by saying: Corona struck Danish society unequally. Some have come relatively easily through it in the last few years, others have paid a huge price, self-employed, who have gone down with their life's work, people who have lost their jobs in Copenhagen Lunfthavn, and people in health care who have gone in and out of corona section at an extremely high pace and did not know if they were going to work in the next week. We fully support the fact that health professionals, nurses and others belong to some of the groups that have paid a high price for the last few years. The addition of additional resources, the recruitment of extra nurses, is, of course, only part of the solution, the pay structure committee is part of the solution, and the fact that we get through the pandemic in a way that we do not have such pressure on our health care that we now have is also part of the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161711	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161712	It is true that they have done a huge amount of work. In fact, they did so to a large extent without protective equipment. We sent them to work, where we faced an unknown disease, without guaranteeing their safety. But that doesn't change the situation they're in now, after they've been through all this. They are experiencing some honey hearts, they have received some appeals that now you have to take an extra turn again, but the other way is not coming anything, there are no promises that this means that there will be better working conditions, that there will be better pay conditions. They themselves indicate the reason why they are fleeing from the profession, the profession for which they have trained, for which they care, and for which they have a great veneration. They're running away from it because we don't offer them proper relationships. What is it that the government can offer there in relation to the fact that both now and after a pay structure committee is actually being delivered?
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161805	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161807	I really think I answered that earlier. It is not just honey hearts to pump millions and millions into the Danish healthcare system. It's not just honey hearts. I fully understand that there is a huge frustration, and I would also say justified frustration, not only much wider My mother is a social and health assistant, I am married to a nurse, and believe me, every day I hear stories about how the Danish healthcare system is screwed up. We are fully aware of the challenges. We are just saying that when you look down into the Danish economy, you see that it is actually one of the areas that we have decided in recent years to add extra funds. It has not yet come out to roll, we fully recognise that, and it has been for a few years with some extraordinary challenges, but we actually think that some decisions have been taken which everything else is going to bring us to a good place, better than now, at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161905	Thank you. Then the Minister just got a little extra time to finish the answer, and that is also the end of Question 11. We are grateful to the Minister for Employment and thank him. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211110161922	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 11 October 2021, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
