ParlaMint-DK_20210303130011	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 183 (Proposal for a law on cash and tax-free payment of pre-retirement and flexible contribution in 2022). Minister for Economic Affairs (Simon Kollerup): Bill No. L 184 (Proposal for a law on unfair commercial practices in relations between undertakings in the agricultural and food supply chain). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 179 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the automatic triggering of a conditional sentence if convicted of new crime). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 180 (Proposal for a resolution on asylum in reception centres outside Europe), motion for a resolution No. Β 181 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a ceiling on non-Western immigration), motion for a resolution No. Β 182 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the elimination of the easing of family reunification), motion for a resolution No. B 183 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to stop development aid to countries that refuse to accept their own nationals), motion for a resolution No. Β 184 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on full Danish self-determination over border controls), motion for a resolution No. Β 185 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a principle of income for Danish social benefits), motion for a resolution No. Β 186 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the obligation of all immigrants on integration allowance and cash aid to contribute for 37 hours a week), motion for a resolution No. Β 187 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of child interpreters), motion for a resolution No. Β 188 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to limit the proportion of bilingual courses in Danish), motion for a resolution No. Β 189 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a ceiling on the proportion of foreigners in Danish secondary schools), motion for a resolution No. B 190 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the disqualification of nationality in the event of personal crime) and motion for a resolution No. Β 191 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the expulsion of several criminal foreigners). Susanne Zimmer (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 192 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on economic incentives to take climate-friendly holidays in Denmark). Signe Munk (SF), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV) and Peder Hvelplund (EL): Hasteforskning nr. F 47 (In view of the Climate Council's assessment in the 2021 status report, what will the Minister do to get a climate policy in place that illustrates how the government will achieve the objectives of the Climate Act?). Jane Heitmann (V) and Maja Torp (V): Request no. F 48 (What can the government say about care provision for deprived elderly people, in view of the fact that at least 25,000 citizens have not been given the care provision to which they are entitled?). Titles on the reported cases will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303130232	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 9 March. In order to justify the question, Mr President, I give the floor to the rapporteur for the questioners first. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303130301	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to Parliament's parties for having been able to have this urgent request today. We have let people in in Denmark who do not want Denmark at all. We have allowed in people who have made it difficult to know areas in our country and where we have problems that we did not need to have. We have also let in people who, according to the intelligence services, are really at risk for Denmark, who will try to develop and take action that in reality denies the freedoms of the Danes and who make terrorist attacks and the like in our country. So we simply must not be naive in relation to what some people think of our country around the world. It is being updated when we talk about some people who have gone from Denmark to Middle Eastern countries in order to actually fight for a new state formation, an Islamic state, a caliphate from which to spread hatred against our part of the world and from there to try to start a fight against our ideas of freedom. The people who have gone out in this way are now trying to get back to Denmark and find their way back to the lovely country they left. We can also risk them doing so through their children, and we want to be sure that that does not happen. Therefore, we have raised this urgent question to the government and look forward to hearing the Prime Minister's and Foreign Minister's response to how we ensure that these people do not return to Denmark again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303130501	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to justify the request. While I am giving the floor for an answer, I would just like to say that the Prime Minister will first have the floor for an answer and then the rapporteurs will be able to make a brief comment. Secondly, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has the floor, and then there is a brief comment on the rapporteurs to the Foreign Minister. Thus, the Prime Minister has been prepared. Welcome to the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303130537	I'm gonna get the platform down a little bit after mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors for putting an important theme on the agenda in this Chamber. Let me start by saying clearly: foreign warriors are undesirable in Denmark. They have left Denmark with open eyes to join the Islamic State, and thus they have turned their backs on us and Denmark. They have joined a fight against everything Denmark is and everything Denmark stands for. Of course, such a choice must have consequences. The government will look after Denmark. It is a core task for us to ensure the safety of the Danes and the safety of the Danes. This is, of course, particularly true in relation to the threat posed by foreign fighters. PET's assessment of the terrorist threat to Denmark from March 2020 shows that persons who are or have been left from Denmark to the conflict zone in Syria and Iraq may pose a terrorist threat to Denmark or Danish interests abroad. This type of risk assessment must be taken seriously, and we, as a Parliament and a government, must take this seriously, and that is why I would like to stress as a start that the government will not actively bring foreign fighters to Denmark. On the contrary, we will go a long way to ensure that foreign fighters are kept at a distance from the Danish borders. With broad support in the Danish Parliament, including the Danish People's Party, we have implemented legislation to cut off foreign warriors' access to consular assistance, and we have thus ensured that authorities can deprive foreign fighters of their Danish citizenship. In addition, we are actively working to find international solutions so that foreign fighters can be prosecuted in the areas where they have committed their crimes. This is not an easy task, but we will continue. Let me add a few words to the cases of children of foreign warriors. The children are in an unhappy situation... no doubt about it. The foreign warriors have given their children the worst possible start to life, they have chosen that their children should grow up in a brutal regime of terror. It hurts, and I think it hurts all of us, precisely because they are children. But the kids have been put in this situation by their parents... no one else. Of course, parents must also take full responsibility for that choice. Having said that, there may be exceptional cases in which the health situation of a child may develop in a way that may exceptionally give rise to action by the authorities. It will have the character of the exception. A possible evacuation would in such cases require the mother to consent to separation from her child, for foreign fighters, as I said before, are not welcome in Denmark. Will an evacuation of a child mean that Denmark is legally obliged to evacuate the child's parents as well? To that I would like to reiterate what the Foreign Minister has said in the past, among other things. at a consultation in the Danish Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee on 6 September 2019: Denmark has no general legal obligation to actively work to bring Danish foreign fighters to Denmark, even if we evacuate their children. However, I cannot deny that in exceptional and specific cases there may be exceptions where a decision to evacuate a child of a foreign warrior may create an obligation to evacuate a parent as well. This will be the case if there is a special relationship of dependency between the child and the parent concerned, which cannot be replaced by others. It can, for example, be done. in a situation where the mother of an infant is breast-fed. Let me therefore also end where I started: Foreign warriors do not belong in Denmark, they are undesirable in Denmark. We will not work actively as a government to bring them to Denmark; they must take the consequence of the totally wrong choice they have made. All children deserve a good start to life, yes, in fact everyone deserves the best start, and therefore it hurts that parents, on behalf of their children, choose Islamic State to and from Denmark. But they have chosen Denmark from. Not only have they turned our backs on us, they have turned their backs on us too. Foreign fighters are I repeat myself, but it is an important message that is unwanted in Denmark, whether they are mothers or fathers, and the government will not take any risk, we will not actively bring parents, foreign fighters to Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131036	I would like to thank the Prime Minister, and I would like to make a brief comment first of all to Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131040	Thank you to the Prime Minister here in the first place. The Prime Minister says that the answer, which the Foreign Minister has also given in the past, is that if a child comes here, we are not necessarily legally obliged to actively evacuate, i.e. to pick up, for example. A mother here too. However, this is not the same as the fact that the mother does not have a legal right to come here, possibly of her own motion, because the child is initially in this country. Can the Prime Minister explain whether it is not true that this is probably the legal basis, even after the conventions which Denmark is obliged to do at this time • that in the situation that the child has come here, a mother or any father will have the right to come to Denmark subsequently, possibly by his own help, but thus to have a stay in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131130	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131131	As a starting point, we will always be concerned if a specific help for a child means that its parents would have to come to Denmark in one way or another. For the legal aspect of this, I would ask that the question be addressed either to the Minister for Foreign Affairs or to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131148	The next brief remark is to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131150	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister mentions this with the international solution in terms of prosecution and prison and everything else. There we are on the left side, 100 per cent. Agreed. That is also why we have repeatedly raised the matter in the Foreign Policy Group on how important it is for us to find a solution to this matter as soon as possible. After all, we know how and how the security situation is in the north-east of Syria. We have the forces of Turkey very close, we have Assads's forces very close to these camps, so there is also an entirely security aspect in it, besides the fact that it is of course becoming harder and harder for witnesses to remember what actually happened during the horrible crimes and so on. Can the Prime Minister not put a little more words on how far the government is in relation to these negotiations with other countries, because time is therefore a issue here in relation to being able to get the necessary sentences from these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131240	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131241	I think that, in general terms, I will arrest the view, which I think is also often referred to in the public debate, that we can be sure that these cases can be judged. It is not because the crimes committed by the Islamic State are not quite clear and clear, but, as the rapporteur of the Left says, we do not know what the precise facts have been. Are there witnesses? Can the judicial work be carried out as necessary to enable a judgment to be delivered? That is why we cannot base our efforts in relation to foreign fighters on the fact that we cannot necessarily judge, even if there is a question of guilt. In relation to the concrete work in the specific area, I must refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is about to come to the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131326	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131328	Thank you. I'm glad the PM's bringing the kids up. It's like there's a four-year-old girl in one of these camps that has developed ptsd. She's been developing that while she's been in camp. This is a very difficult health situation. The Prime Minister has self-appointed the Prime Minister of the children, which is why I would like to ask: It may well be that the parents of the child here have turned their backs on Denmark, but why does the self-appointed Prime Minister of the children turn their backs on the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131402	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131403	I am not turning my back on any children, but I do not recognise the premise that we must take any risk whatsoever in relation to foreign fighters. That is the risk in any effort in this area. We have made it clear that we are not obliged to help them here. Some people say we have to help these people home, but they don't have a home in Denmark anymore. Foreign warriors cannot come home to Denmark. Denmark is not their home. They have turned their back on us; they have left Denmark; they have joined the Islamic State; they have confessed to the face of terror and committed monstrous crimes against humanity. The children are in a terrible situation and I have no doubt that the conditions in the camps are not suitable for the children to be there. This does not mean in our optics that the people who have turned their backs on Denmark must return.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131505	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131506	Thank you. In recent weeks we have been able to read in the media that a 4-year-old Danish girl from Danish experts has been diagnosed with ptsd, and that if we do not take her home for treatment, it causes lifelong psychological damage. In recent days we have also been able to read about poor food supplies in the camps and about a fire in Al-Hol, where children have been badly injured. In other words, these children are living in terrible conditions. I would therefore like to know whether the Prime Minister can guarantee that Denmark complies with the Children's Convention when, for example, Article 6 of the Children's Convention states that the States Parties recognise that every child has a natural right to life and that the States Parties must, as far as possible, ensure the survival and development of the child. Does the Prime Minister think that Denmark ensures the development and survival of these Danish children, including the 4-year-old girl found with ptsd?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131604	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131605	For good reasons and in principle, I do not wish to go into individual cases from the speaking chair of the Folketing. There may be special humanitarian circumstances in favour of a child being helped, being evacuated, and this has been the case all along. In general, I would like to stress again that the people who have turned their backs on Denmark and have become foreign warriors, what in my optics is treason, do not have at home in Denmark. There is no home in Denmark to return to, and that is the government's position in principle. Then there may be some special circumstances surrounding some specific children that the authorities will then have to deal with, just as I said before.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131646	The next brief remark is to Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131647	Today's debate will in many ways turn out to be a contest about how much we despise these foreign fighters, and I just think that the position and the debate about it will be about a tie. I don't think anyone here is more or less despised or mindful of them than anyone else. So what I want to ask you instead of going into that competition right now is precisely about the kids, where the Prime Minister himself says that there may be special situations because of a nursing mother, who was one of the examples, and there could be other examples where you still have some obligations. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is this: is this just about sitting around waiting for them to feel awful enough until the Prime Minister feels that you have this responsibility? Because it's in some situations anyway. Isn't it an entirely untenable position just to sit and wait for things to get worse and then finally feel that you have a responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131736	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131737	I think it is legitimate that we can look at this issue differently, and the government has chosen a line in which we do not want to actively contribute to the return of foreign fighters to Danish soil, and we stand by that position. Moreover, I believe that it also enjoys broad support in the Danish population. It is just as festive that people who are foreign warriors are going back to Denmark. In fact, I cannot understand at all that anyone can think that they have anything to do with Denmark anymore. Then there is a particular challenge about the children. I am delighted if everyone agrees to distance themselves from foreign fighters, and I really believe that, despite what we may think of foreign fighters, we all have a very, very great sympathy for the children who have been placed in a very, very unhappy situation, not by the Danish Government I would like to stress • nor by the previous Danish government, but by their parents, no one else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131830	The next brief remark is to Mr. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131832	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a good speech. First, why do we call them foreign fighters? They're terrorists, they're traitors. I think it is such a mild term to call them foreign warriors. I think we should not do that. So to the question. The previous government started some negotiations and talked about setting up a war criminal court. The previous Prime Minister had meetings with the Swedish Prime Minister to launch a war criminal court locally. It was even said that it could be in Cyprus. In this way it is easier to prosecute them, and it is also easier to get the witnesses, etc. What has become of the idea of setting up a war criminal court, including for the victims? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131930	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303131930-2	I basically share both the interest and the idea that the people who have committed crimes of this nature should be judged and that an international framework is, in one way or another, certainly the right one. In relation to the specific talk about negotiations, I would like to refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as I said before, or the Minister for Justice. So I actually agree with the first recital: "Freminderkriger" seems to be less dramatic than, for example, being a traitor or being a terrorist, and I have no difficulty in saying my personal opinion. One is what you can be convicted of, and that is of course another matter, but my personal opinion is that this is a case of treason, no more or no less. It's as bad as it gets. One of the worst crimes one can commit is to be a traitor to the country, and here it is even the case in one of the worst terrorist regimes we have seen in recent times, namely the Islamic State. So I would very much like to discuss whether we should not have a language that is more precise in relation to the nature and extent of the crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132036	Thank you, Prime Minister. There are no further brief comments to the Prime Minister. I can give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132100	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. I can continue where the Prime Minister ended. The government doesn't want foreign fighters to go to Denmark. We do not want to help foreign fighters, and we will not allow foreign fighters to use their children as a lever for them to travel to Denmark themselves. The government's line is clear, consistent and well-known. It has been presented in a number of consultations, in written replies to the Folketing, at rapporteur meetings, in technical briefings and in the press, continuously since 2019. We must remember that it was the foreign warriors' own choice to turn their backs on Denmark, freedom and democracy. They chose to support the inhumane regime of terror, torture and terror of the Islamic State with a clear eye. They joined a militant battle against everything Denmark is and stands for. They chose that their own future and their children's lives should be in one of the worst terrorist regimes the world has ever seen. They gave their children the worst possible start to life, and it hurts to think about it. But that was their choice, and that is their responsibility. We cannot forcibly remove children at 3,000 km's distance, and we will not risk helping foreign fighters to Denmark. They are undesirable in Denmark and therefore the government only exceptionally wants to seek children evacuated. A child accompanied by his mother will, as a general rule, only be evacuated if it is safe and if the child is in a serious health situation which cannot be treated locally and which, if untreated, can either develop life-threatening or cause serious permanent but. If a child's health situation is considered to fall within the government's line of consideration for an exceptional medical evacuation, a number of other elements will need to be identified, including citizenship, residence in Denmark and safety considerations before it can finally be assessed whether there is a basis for an evacuation. Similarly, the mother is required to consent to separation. It's very complex stuff. Unfortunately, there are no easy solutions. But let me make it clear that the evacuation of a child who is staying with his mother will have the character of the exception. In this context, it is important to state that Denmark does not have a general legal obligation to actively work to bring Danish foreign fighters to Denmark. This also applies to parents, whether we have chosen to provide assistance to evacuate their children. However, if Danish authorities decide to evacuate a child of a foreign warrior to Denmark, it cannot be denied that in very specific, specific cases a situation may arise where the decision to provide assistance to evacuate a child can create an obligation to also evacuate the child's parents. However, it will be one of the absolute exceptions and it will require that, in the particular case, as the Prime Minister also mentioned, there is a very special relationship of dependency between the child and the parent concerned. Finally, let me stress that Denmark is not alone in these difficult matters. Virtually all European countries have continued to have children and mothers in the camps, which, moreover, bears witness to the great complexity of matters. We see that the European countries generally make a limited number of evacuations from the camps and that it is primarily orphans and other particularly vulnerable children who are being evacuated, as is the case here in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132452	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's first, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132500	The Prime Minister actually handed over my previous question to answer the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister are talking about the extent to which one is actively obliged to go down and pick up a parent for Denmark, i.e. evacuate him or her. But something else is, of course, whether an additional legal possibility can be created to come to Denmark independently if your child has first come to Denmark. This is also true in those situations where it has been possible to take citizenship from someone who has had dual citizenship, and what is the Foreign Minister's assessment of that situation? Does it give Denmark a worse position than rejecting these people if the child has first come to Denmark or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132545	At the risk of repetition, I must just stress and put a thick line under the fact that there is no general legal obligation to take parents to evacuated children to Denmark. There may be very special dependency conditions which allow such an obligation to arise. In any case, it will depend on a case-by-case assessment, and when you deal with these matters, the complexity and variety of matters are enormous, and therefore you cannot say anything more general on the issue than what I have said now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132621	The next brief remark is to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132623	Thank you. I would also like to repeat a question which I have not only put to the Prime Minister, but which we actually revolved around yesterday's debate, namely about this international prosecution, which is, of course, something of great importance at least for many parties. That is why we also have to get something more tangible from the government about how that work goes, so to speak. Because if we do not get this international court soon, there is a risk that the witnesses will forget and material will disappear, because this is an active conflict zone we are talking about. That is why I hope for a good answer as to how it is going to look for this support so that we can have such an internationally recognised court and not least a prison thereafter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132708	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132709	Thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. The government takes this issue of local prosecution very seriously. We are still working, as I have also mentioned, for foreign fighters to be prosecuted in the region where they have committed their crimes. This is not a simple task. I think everyone can understand that it is complex. We have a close cooperation with like-minded countries, all of which face the same challenges as us in Denmark. It is also a subject that is regularly discussed in the Foreign Policy Name. I would also like to say that, because of the confidential nature of the information, I will refrain from going into the details of the platform here today, but refer to the discussion of the title.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132749	The next brief remark is to Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132751	One of the things that defines a nation state is citizenship and the right to decide who is part of our nation. After all, it makes some commitments, and it also gives some rights. I do not think we disagree at all on the assessment of the bad nature of the people who have gone down to fight against a dictatorship such as the Islamic State, but I would like to hear the Foreign Minister put a little more words on what this Danish citizenship means. Are there other crimes that lie in the pipeline in order not to be able to receive attention from Denmark? I could mention murderers, paedophiles, drug offenders who are also imprisoned abroad, who are Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132832	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132833	I believe that what we are dealing with here are some people who have turned their backs on Denmark, in other words they have opted out of Denmark, they have chosen to join the Islamic State, a completely different state, a completely different life. That is where they have chosen their lives to be and their families to live. These are some people who, in my view and also the Prime Minister's view, have actually committed treason, and therefore these people are also undesirable in Denmark. This is something that we in the government are very concerned about, and that is why we have among other things. It is also possible for these people to be deprived of their citizenship, and we can also deprive them of the possibility in my area of consular assistance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which we think is quite natural, given the nature of what they have done and what they stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132928	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303132929	Thank you. And thank the Minister for coming back. It is a little less than 13 hours since we were here last; it was a little darker, and it shows that the Radical Left is fighting night and day to bring these children home; there should be no doubt about that at all. I had hoped that the Minister would bring some other speech papers, because they have not changed so much in the last 13 hours. But that is why I would like to ask the Minister: when you hear about a four-year-old Danish girl with ptsd; when you hear about fire in these camps; when you hear about poor food supplies, does the Minister think that Denmark as far as possible ensures the survival and development of these children?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133011	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133013	I cannot go into specific cases from the platform, but I can say in general that it is completely incomprehensible to me that some parents should choose to bring their children down to the Islamic State and take part in the violence and terrorist orgy that has taken place there, and also to create a family down there. It's incomprehensible, incomprehensible. And that is why, of course, I also feel sorry for the children who have been affected by this situation. That is why, in exceptional cases, if there is a health situation, we can go in and see how we can help the children in question. This is also why, in relation to the humanitarian situation in the region, both in the camps and in north-east Syria, Denmark is contributing humanitarian aid, among other things. through various NGOs and various humanitarian organisations, in other words to help in the unfortunate situation that exists, not least for children and innocent civilians. But I have nothing left for the parents who have chosen to go down there and thus betray everything Denmark stands for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133117	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133119	Thank you. I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has nothing to do with these parents; neither have I. What I do not understand, however, is how the government is trying to help these children mentioned by the Foreign Minister. Because we are told, in response to the reply from the Foreign Minister, that an authority group has been set up to work on this, but you can still read in Berlingske and in the Ekstra Bladet this weekend that this authority group has not held a meeting since 28 August 2019. So I'm just gonna ask the Secretary of State: how do you help these kids, these sick kids, get home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133158	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133200	In contrast to Mrs Rosa Lund, we do not want to evacuate the children and their parents to Denmark, as I understand Mrs Rosa Lund has said several times. In light of these cases, we have a group of authorities, with the relevant authorities; the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and other relevant authorities are involved to clarify these cases, and of course we do so when there is reason to do so. And there may be the reason which I also stated that, in exceptional cases, if there is a humanitarian situation for a child, that is, a serious health situation which cannot be treated locally and which can also be treated as being seriously permanent, lasting, but, then we can take action and clarify that matter with the various relevant authorities and then look at what can be done and whether an evacuation can take place with the consent of the mother etc. I've told you about that many times. We are, of course, concerned with helping those children who are vulnerable to the extent that they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133304	The next brief remark is to Mr. Nase Khader, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133306	Thank you. And thank the Secretary of State for a fine speech. Now we are not in favour of picking up the children, because then the parents will follow. But if we assume that we choose to pick up the children, as the government's support parties wish, does it not require cooperation with Assad? For the two camps are within Syria's borders. It is true that these are Kurdish territories, but they are not internationally recognised. So it doesn't take you to work with Assad to get them out of Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133343	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133345	I'd like to say to Mr. Nas Khade says it's a complex situation, and it's gonna take a lot of things to evacuate a child. As I said before, this will require the mother's consent. This will require cooperation with the Kurdish authorities on earth. This will require the security situation to be in order for the people who have to do the work. And that will require a number of other conditions, for example. As far as the basis of residence is concerned, Denmark should also be in Denmark to take another example. So that is a complex thing and that is why we pursue it on a case-by-case basis and clarify it on a case-by-case basis. There aren't two cases that are the same in this way. There are a lot of personal and concrete circumstances, and it is also a concrete assessment of how we should act in these matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133428	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Now there are no more brief comments to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this round. This means that we are now going to debate, that is to say, the general rules for short remarks. The first is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133450	I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for their preliminary replies to this urgent question. There should be no doubt that what we fear in the Danish People's Party is that while we speak and hear all the right things from the government, more and more of the people who have completely turned their backs on Denmark and have travelled to Syria or elsewhere to fight for an Islamist caliphate are sprinkling to Denmark. It was, of course, the irony of fate if we roll the time back to • yes, it was November 2019 • where I remember that while the Prime Minister on his facebook profile looked up that these foreign fighters, as she wrote, had nothing to do in Denmark, one landed at Copenhagen Airport. Since this summer, a woman suspected of terrorism has come in, and now we are talking about the children, and to what extent it will then create a situation where there will be even more to Denmark. We have the view in the Danish People's Party that we must do everything we can to keep the people who do not want Denmark out of our country. We do not need to import any more problems, because we already have huge problems. Most recently there have been arrests in Holbæk because of the risk of a terrorist attack on Danish soil. We must not be naive; we must do everything we can to keep this from our doorstep. Therein lies also the fact that the people who went to Syria years ago to fight for an Islamist regime of terror did what has also been said, with open eyes, and they must take the consequence of it. This also means that they take the consequences on their children's behalf, and that is why I naturally get worried when the government's support parties, SF, Enhedslisten and Radical Left are fighting as hard a fight as they are now, to have these children brought back to Denmark, Denmark, as they say. Because I fear that at some point in some negotiation behind the roll-down curtains over in some ministry, the Social Democratic Party is going to give in, and then suddenly we have a bigger problem at home than we should have. So it is, of course, that we have this urgent question, in the hope that we can persuade the government, the Social Democratic Party, to give a guarantee to the Danes that there will be no question of giving in to any aspect of this risk. In our view it is the case that the Folketing grants citizenship; people can also be deprived of citizenship. We have, of course, been discussing with the people who are in these camps and elsewhere whether we should not take away citizenship from them so that they were not equipped with the rights and protection that they are talking about for Danish citizens. And it has been said that we would like to do so to the extent that people have dual citizenship, and we also know that we have rules at home where we have gone one step further so that we can have our citizenship withdrawn if we are convicted. The question is whether we should not just conclude that if we have gone to places where we are fighting against Danish values and against Denmark, we have in fact been guilty of the fact that we have to be described as a traitor and that we are therefore losing our Danish rights in relation to citizenship. And then you do it also in relation to the children who are, where a large part of the children are actually not born in Denmark at all. They were born in the conflict area and therefore find it very difficult to create a connection to Denmark. In its answer, the government says a lot about whether we are actively obliged to bring some up here in any way, or whether we are not, but I also think that this should be about the people who, of their own motion, are trying to get back to Denmark. Because it can be said that whether they come here in one way or another, they pose a risk to the Danes, which we must do all we can to shield the Danes from. In conclusion, I should like to make the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Danish People's Party, New Citizens' Party and Mrs Inger Støjberg (UFG): Proposal for adoption: The Danish Parliament urges the government to stand firm on the decision not to bring the children of IS terrorists or the sympathizers of the IS terrorists to Denmark, since it is very likely that Denmark will then also be obliged to give the children's parents the right to stay in Denmark. • V 76).
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133916	Thank you for that text of adoption. It will be included in the further negotiations. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133920	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech to Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Now it is the case that the Center for Terror Analysis, which is part of PET, writes in their analysis on page 16 that bringing the children home does not constitute a terrorist threat. In fact, they say that it poses a greater threat to leave them where they are because they can be radicalised. So I actually just have to ask, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Are there any other of PET's recommendations that Dansk Folkeparti does not want to follow?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303133954	Well, I cannot rule out that it is possible to bring a 4-year-old child to Denmark and make sure that he grows up in a good Danish family with some good values and develops some really healthy attitudes to the future. However, I can say that if we bring a four-year-old child to Denmark, means that a radicalised mother or possibly a radicalised father will come to Denmark afterwards, then it poses a risk to Denmark, and we in the Danish People's Party do not think we should run that risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134022	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134023	Now it is not just a four-year-old girl, but at least 19 children. But that's not what I'm asking. What I am asking is whether there are any other recommendations of the Police Intelligence Service that the Danish People's Party will not follow. You will not follow the recommendation made by PET, and then I just think it would be sensible if the Danish People's Party would clarify for the rest of us whether there are other things that PET says, which you pull a little on your shoulders, because you have a different attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134051	Of the 19 children I think the 10 were born down there. This also illustrates very well the challenge here, in relation to the fact that most of the children, whom Enhedslisten fights frigily for should turn to Denmark together with • not subsequently so probably their parents, were not born in Denmark at all. Then I just repeat: I do not disagree with an assessment if PET and others had to come to the conclusion that you might be able to bring children of a very young age to Denmark if you can completely shield them from radicalised environments and make them grow up in a good Danish family with good Danish values. But the point is, and the Enhedslisten will not say: what happens if their radicalized parents follow suit?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134131	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134132	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I'd like to know if Mr. Kim is here. Kristian Thulesen Dahl can confirm that it is the policy of the Danish People's Party that, if you come to Denmark and do not have Danish citizenship, you commit serious crime and it could be the planning of terror or any other thing should be sent back immediately to your home country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134200	Yes, that is absolutely clear; we must shield Denmark. And I can almost figure out what that follow-up question is. Then I will answer the same thing: we are here because we have to protect Denmark and shield Denmark from the dangers that lurk out in the world. And bringing people to Denmark, who have actively turned their backs on Denmark and have gone to another country to fight against Danish values, poses a potential risk, and we do not think that the Danes should run.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134226	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134226-2	That is why the Danish People's Party's policy is a double one. Because if you were to follow the logic of the Danish People's Party completely, it should also be so that if someone from Denmark went abroad and committed very serious crime, then it is clear that the country to which you came does not necessarily think it is a good idea that the Dane should continue to reside there, but comes back to Denmark. So does the rapporteur not see that there is a somewhat flawed logic in the way in which the Danish People's Party conducts its policy in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134257	No, and now I had foreshadowed what kind of follow-up question came, and there I had guessed quite rightly. I would say that I have been elected here in Denmark to help protect the Danes from the dangers that lurk. We are of the opinion that there may be situations in which we grant citizenship to people who come from outside Denmark because they want Denmark, but on the other hand there are also people who opt out of Denmark to an extent, so they have to lose their Danish citizenship and thus the protection provided by Danish citizenship. And then they must take the consequence of their actions where they are now in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134333	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur, who is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134356	Thank you. The Islamic State has beheaded children. The Islamic State has crucified children. The Islamic State has buried children alive. The Islamic State has used children as suicide bombers. The Islamic State has kidnapped children and sold them as sex slaves. Yet people with Danish citizenship have joined the death kingdom of Islamic State. These traitors dreamed of a caliphate with executions of unbelievers, a caliphate in which fundamentalist Islam dictated the order of the day. But when their abominable dreams of the caliphate were extinguished, these cowards got cold feet. Those with a red beet passport would now like to return to Denmark, back to the free Western world, which they wanted to exterminate shortly before, and they should not. These fundamentalists have nothing to do in Denmark. They have committed treason, and they have abandoned all fundamental values of the equality of men. Fortunately, many IS warriors have died, others have been captured by the Kurds, and also people with Danish citizenship have been captured. As you know, there are forces in Denmark that want these terrorist sympathizers, these Islamic State supporters who have supported the caliphate's torture and executions of children and other innocents, evacuated to Denmark because they are Danish citizens. There are forces in Denmark that believe that we owe it to these Islamists to come to their rescue, but we do not. What I have said so far does not change the fact that there are children who today suffer from the actions of their parents. It is tragic that children live in the IS camps in northern Syria. It is children who pay a high price for their parents having chosen a future in an Islamic caliphate, a caliphate where bloodshed is as natural a part of everyday life as it is for the rest of us to take the bus. There are also children in the Al-Roj and Al-Hol camp who have Danish citizenship and, unlike their parents, they have the possibility of consular assistance, but it is not possible, as some suggest, to force them to be removed. It would be a breach of both Danish and international law. Danish authorities have jurisdiction in Denmark, not in Spain, Syria or any other countries. When it comes to the children, a few have been evacuated. A baby who was orphaned was evacuated and a boy who was life-threateningly wounded was evacuated, the latter in agreement with the mother who agreed to stay in Syria. But the point of departure is that we do not pick anyone up, not because small children are a danger, but because their parents, who are part of the Islamic State, are a danger and they come with it. The crimes of the Islamic State have been committed thousands of miles away. It may therefore prove difficult to judge them in Denmark. However, the Syrians, Iraqis, Kurds, Yazidians and others who have lost family members, have been sex slaves and have been whipped and tortured have a legitimate expectation that their executioners will be brought to justice rather than just being evacuated to Denmark because Denmark was once their homeland. If you fundamentally fail your homeland, as the Islamic State's supporters have done, you will no longer be part of Denmark. We do not bring terrorists to Denmark, and the Danish people do not owe these Islamists the least. I have a proposal for adoption with from the Left, Conservatives, Liberal Alliance and Social Democratic Party: Proposals for adoption The Parliament strongly condemns the terrorist group Islamic State and the horrible terrorist acts and killings for which the group is responsible. The Folketing is of the clear opinion that foreign fighters who have voluntarily travelled to and joined the kingdom of the Islamic State have turned their backs on Denmark and have to live with the consequences of their actions. • V 77).
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134718	Thank you for the proposal for adoption, which will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is first, Mr President. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134724	When our current Minister for Defence was the Legal Rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, she said in a discussion on these themes: "It is clear that there is a great difference between people who are Danish citizens and those who are not. Later in the discussion she also says that this is a group of Danish citizens where we have an obligation. Well, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is not at all between, whether you are a foreign warrior and have committed these crimes, and whether, as in this situation, you are actually a Danish citizen? Or does it really matter if you have acquired Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134800	One of the main reasons why we are discussing this issue today is probably precisely that there are Danish citizens who have contributed to these crimes against humanity. That is why it is relevant for a Danish parliament to deal with these people, so how will we deal with them? And the question is then that there is someone who has a wish that we go down and pick up these terrorists because they have acquired Danish citizenship at some point or have had it if they have converted to Islam later, or what do I know; there are different stories. There it is fortunately the government's and a broad majority in the parliament's line that we do not go down and bring terrorists to Denmark, which will probably pose a major terrorist threat to the Danish population.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134839	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134840	I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund, if he has other criminals in mind who are not going to receive help. Well, we have serial pedophiles who are imprisoned abroad. What is the idea of taking such things back to Denmark? Have they not transgressed against everything? Or what about murderers or drug offenders who may be responsible for the death and misfortune of many people? Well, there are other groups where Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's view can say that all the values on which Denmark stands have simply been turned back, why, of course, they have nothing to do here and why they should not receive any help? Well, who else is in play besides these?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134911	I do not share the concern for serial pedophiles or other Danes who around the world had to be in prison somewhere, and I have no desire that the Danish foreign service should then devote great effort to trying to get those people back to Denmark. It is not a wish that I share, and Mr. Karsten Hønge then just recognize is a disagreement between Mr. Karsten Hønge and yours truly. Because the fact that you are a Danish citizen is not the same as the fact that you have the right to have the Danish state come to the rescue, no matter what crimes you have committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134943	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303134944	I think the Socialists are talking with two tongues. The Prime Minister writes facebook posts where she tells the Danes that we do not take any Syrians to Denmark, and that under no circumstances should we take Syrians to Denmark, and at the same time the first is transported into Copenhagen Airport and is here in Denmark. Today, in the debate, we are then told by the Socialists that we must finally not take Syrians to Denmark because it is dangerous and that the police intelligence service is very wary of this and that it simply does not work. That is a good thing, but what happens when the Social Democrats take children anyway, and the Prime Minister also said so and legally their parents, who come directly from this war zone, to Denmark? What is happening to the Socialists? Isn't that talking to two tongues? I would like the Socialists here today to give a guarantee that there will be no children and that there will be no more Syrians back to Denmark. Because that is what continues to do, while the rapporteur is standing here saying that we should not have that. Can we get a guarantee that there will be no more Syrian warriors in Denmark now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135054-2	I mean, sir. Peter Skaarup is mixing things up a little here, because there is a difference between Denmark going out and evacuating traitors, and that traitors themselves troops up at Copenhagen Airport, if for one reason or another they have been able to escape or escape from the Kurdish control under which they have been subjected. If a person shows up at Copenhagen Airport who has a reddish-coloured passport and is a Danish citizen, it will be known to me, and I say that with the reservation that I am not a lawyer, to deny him access to Denmark without there having been a trial before. In this situation, there is nothing else to do but to incarcerate him or her and then to bring a trial against him or her. But there's a difference between that, sir. Peter Skaarup says, and then this, because it's not the same thing as us having to go down and get them ourselves. We believe that they should be prosecuted in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135153	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135154	But listen to me. After all, a group has been set up to assess how children can be taken to Denmark. The Prime Minister said a moment ago in his opening remarks that there are exceptions to the fact that there are exceptions where we would like to take children and hence legally their parents to Denmark. So can the Socialists in the Parliamentary Chamber, the parliamentary basis and all sorts of other people in the Danish population guarantee that what they say and what they do is consistent? Well, they say you don't want syrianskriers to Denmark. Then there must also be a guarantee that what you do is that you ensure that they do not come to Denmark. Because they do at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135240	I mean, it's a misleading way, sir. Peter Skaarup makes the case. It is factually the case that an orphan has been evacuated, and there was a boy who was evacuated because he was badly wounded and perhaps would have been dead if he had not been evacuated and received medical treatment, and the mother agreed to stay in Syria. So to make it an example of the government bringing foreign fighters to Denmark, I think is misleading and factually wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135320	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135321	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund, who mentioned the victims of the crimes of the Islamic State. I think that is a crazy relevant discussion to take. Some of the victims of the crimes of the Islamic State are the Kurds, who in good Danish have to be said to have taken one by defeating the Islamic State. Now we have parked our bill down with the Kurds, namely the Danish criminals. Wouldn't it be most fair, and wouldn't it be most safe to bring these people to Denmark, so we could be sure they're being punished? We are not sure where they are now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135407-2	I think it might be a rather simplistic interpretation. If someone is committing a crime in Denmark and he comes from another country, we do not expect the other country to take the person back and carry out the trial in the country from which he comes. It is also in the interests of the Kurds, the Yazids, the Iraqis and the Syrians and other Christian minorities that these people should be prosecuted in the area where they have committed their crimes. Otherwise, the risk is that you get so far away from witnesses, victims, fellow perpetrators, crime scenes, etc. that you will not be able to get them convicted sufficiently hard for the crimes they have committed. Then they come to Denmark, and then they get off too cheaply. We do not want to end up in that situation. You can see the example described on the front page of Politiken today. There is a Norwegian woman who, in an evacuation, has come to Norway and where the fact is that while there is a trial pending, she has been released. She was in custody at first, but she's released now. This is the scenario we need to avoid happening in Denmark, that is to say we get people here who are being prosecuted, but all too quickly going around the streets and straits in Denmark at risk to the Danish population.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135525	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135526	I'm pretty sure the Kurds don't see this as a favor or as a good thing, or that it's something about us doing them a favor by leaving Danish criminals in these camps. Having said that, I am glad that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund brings up the case from Norway, because I have also read Politiken today. It's right here on my desk. After all, it confirms that it is quite possible to carry out these legal proceedings in the home Member State. The reason this woman is no longer in custody is because what she's been doing is making tea for the revolution. She has contributed to the birth of children and to the cooking of food. So that is what has been concluded in the court, that is, in the judicial system, in Norway, where this matter is under way. We should do the same in Denmark. I think the case from Norway proves that the best way to run these trials is to bring these foreign fighters home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135620-2	That means that Mrs Rosa Lund believes that the woman who has been evacuated to Norway is a witness of truth in her own case. Because it is precisely from that article that the primary source of knowledge about that matter is herself. And the prosecutor in Norway says that it would be difficult to raise a case against her at all if she had not been willing to give any explanations herself. Could you imagine that there are things that she left out in those explanations? I have personal imagination to imagine that there could be things she had forgotten to tell in those explanations. I do not know whether Mrs Rosa Lund shares that view, but the Norwegian prosecutor says so in several places in today's Politiken.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135658	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard yes, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135659	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund for the speech. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund mentioned among others. The case of the 13-year-old who was repatriated in agreement with the mother, which is why I want to hear how Mr. Rasmus Stoklund looks at the possibility of concluding similar agreements with a mother in the future when the consular assistance has been cut off and how should such an agreement be concluded in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135728	Well, as sir. After all, Kristian Hegaard remembers that we adopted the legislation on consular assistance about a year ago here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and that is precisely where we avoided children, which means that the Danish foreign service still has the opportunity to help children to the extent that there is a particular humanitarian circumstance that says it is necessary. At the same time, however, I think it must be said that there is no basis for drawing up such completely general guidelines and saying that if you do so, you can bring children to Denmark. This is not the case, because in a case where, for example, a mother writes off the possibility of coming to Denmark, one must also be absolutely sure that there could not be a father somewhere. And that is why it is not necessarily enough for a mother to resign. What if a father suddenly shows up? Well, there's a lot of complex elements in this, and it's very bad for headlines and quick, simple solutions. But the starting point is clear: we are not going to get anyone at all. These families are founded in the Islamic State, they have chosen to live in the Islamic State, and their future lies in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135838	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135839	If sir... Rasmus Stoklund feels confident that children can just get consular assistance, can the rapporteur describe how it is possible for a 4-year-old girl with ptsd or other Danish children to come into contact with them? Are there any Danish children who then receive consular assistance where they can get the necessary contact? And if it's the mother with whom they have to make a deal, how can it be done when you cut it off completely?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135908	After all, the authorities have contact with both humanitarian organisations in the area and with relatives in Denmark, and that would be the way to go. What is probably what divides us in the end is that there are not only children, very young children, because then we would probably find a solution, just as we could with the baby that was evacuated and, like Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl described earlier with a 4-year-old child who was placed in a good family who had some good values. Then it wouldn't be dangerous. What makes this dangerous is that there are some parents who are ready for violence, who hate the West and who hate everything we stand for. And it will be extremely dangerous for the Danish people to bring those people to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135948	The next brief remark is from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303135949	Thank you. After all, the situation on earth in the north-east of Syria is such that the Turkish soldiers stand a few kilometres from the two camps, the Assad forces stand a few kilometres from the two camps, and the Islamic State is even away in the area and they operate at an excessively high level. So we can safely say that the security situation is not good in keeping these terrorists inside the camp, and that is why we have already seen that there have been people who have simply escaped from the camp, who have been able to travel and be terrorists around the world. How will the Social Democrats ensure that this is not going to happen? It does not take much for the Turkish soldiers to walk the last kilometers or for pro-Assad forces to walk the last kilometers, nor does it need much imagination to imagine that then the Kurdish troops will flee. Of course. And then there are two camps that have no security at all, and then there is free passage out of these camps. And that is why we on the Left say again and again and again how important it is that we move these people to a third country in the area so that we can have the necessary security.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140058	It is well known that this is the case with the security situation, as Mr. Michael Aastrup describes this. There's not much new in that. It is clear that it is an unstable area, it is a zone of conflict, it is a huge problem and it is an element of uncertainty, and it must also be recognised as a small state, because we are not a superpower. We cannot solve the world's problems, but we can do what we can to keep them from the door, and then work with our allies to establish a tribunal where these people can be judged.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140136	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140137	Without revealing too many secrets, because what I am about to do is open source, it is relatively new that the troops of these two countries, if you can put it that way, are approaching the two camps. This has happened within a relatively few months, which is why it is also necessary that we come up with a solution fairly soon, because otherwise we will have a horror scenario which I do not think anyone in this Parliament wants, namely that there is free passage out of these camps. That is why the question remains. I would like to acknowledge that we alone cannot do anything, but we are members of the European Union, we are part of an alliance against the Islamic State, and we are also part of NATO, so these are three different organisations where we could take this active leadership to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140224	Yes, and it is well known that this is the case, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen describes, but that does not change the fact that it is not something Denmark can do alone, and that is why the solution is precisely that, Mr President. Michael Aastrup Jensen himself points out, namely cooperation with our allies, both in the United States and in the European Union and in NATO. That is what this is all about. In addition, as a nation, we must do what we can to ensure that these people do not have access to Denmark, and we do so, among other things. by not evacuating these traitors.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140247	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for also preparing for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140304	This could quickly be a re-issue for those who followed our debate last night and last night not so many hours ago on exactly the same subject. But this is also an important debate, because on the one hand, there is no doubt that we in the Left want the Islamic terrorists, men and women, to be prosecuted, that they do not return to Denmark and that they are being imprisoned locally in the area in a safe place in the Middle East. There should be no doubt about that at all. I fully share the strong words that have been spoken about the violent attacks by the Islamic State on civilians. I myself, years ago, had the opportunity to stand on Mount Sinjar in the north of Iraq and to hear the terrible stories that the Yazids experienced in connection with the Islamic State, which is as horrific as it should not be imagined at all. So I and the Left share one hundred percent of the analysis that these people have turned their backs on Denmark and therefore should not come back. But on the other hand, we also have some children, and all of us who have children themselves, all of us who have a heart, can tell ourselves that a 4-year-old is of course totally blameless compared to what their parents have done. That is why, of course, it pains us all when we see the absolutely horrible conditions in which they live in the two camps that are in the north-east of Syria. In the various questions I have raised earlier in the debate here today, I have mentioned the whole aspect of security, but there is also the humanitarian situation. And then there is the security situation in the long run, but we have not really touched on it. And that is how one has to say to oneself that if a 4-year-old is allowed to grow up down there for the next 14 years, 18, 19, 20 years and has the opportunity to travel north, then of course that person is totally radicalised and may also be an even greater security threat than their parents have been. So it's hard to say that there are some easy solutions, because there aren't. That is why it is also important on the part of the Left to say what we have done historically. When we sat in government, we set up the inter-ministerial working group, which had the task of looking at matters on a case-by-case basis, i.e. whether there were grounds for possibly evacuating some of the children if needed. In the middle of the last election campaign, some of us experienced a call in the middle of the election campaign and were told that the working group had now found the basis for evacuating this 13-year-old, who was paralyzed in both legs, as I remember, back to Denmark. We warmly support that. That is why it is also important for us to address in the parallel work of yesterday's resolution the various facets of the working group and also the opportunities for the working group in how and how we can ensure that the best conditions are available to children. Can forced adoption be something that is possible and possible, can the question of forced removal be solved? I am not a lawyer and therefore I recognise that there are many different facets in this, that is, what you can do and what you cannot do in relation to conventions, in relation to legislation, in relation to the fact that it is an active conflict zone that we have down there. But it must never be the case that we just give up on the children, even though at the same time we want their parents to be prosecuted and never come back to the country. So this is the balancing act we are trying to have on the Left side, and at the same time we are still a hundred percent away in the adoption text of the governing party, the social democracy, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, because of course the foreign warriors have chosen side, and therefore they never have to go back to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140730	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140734	Now I understand better why, in the adoption that has been worked together, there is no mention of these children. Now I get it. Because that is because the Left is opening up to bring these children to Denmark, and I thought it was quite difficult to find a head and tail in this rapporteur's speech, Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. I will then have to ask to try to get some clear answer out of this: will the Left totally rule out any involvement in bringing children to Denmark if there is the slightest chance that this means that their parents will follow?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140806-2	Well, I don't know if it's because I speak in favour of Randrusian, or what it is that makes the Danish People's Party chairman unable to keep up. I thought I was relatively precise and that it was also a re-run in relation to what I said in this evening's debate. But just to make it a hundred percent firm, I thought I did too... we don't want Islamic State warriors, men like women, that is, both parents, to come back to the country in any way whatsoever.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140832	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140833	I understand that you say you don't want to. But what we are talking about is whether it can nevertheless become reality. It may be that something that you do not want suddenly becomes reality, just as when the Prime Minister says on Facebook that there should be no foreign fighters or terrorists, potential terrorists, to Denmark, at the same time as someone is landing at Copenhagen Airport. So I'm gonna ask you again, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, and it is not because it is in Randrusian or anything else, because I usually can interpret it: Will the Left deny that in any way it helps to bring children of these people to Denmark, if it can in any way risk meaning that their parents will also be able to follow?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140909	I think I am quite clear: we do not want to contribute to any decision that would allow parents to return to the country in the end. That is also why we have been advocating repeatedly for a long time that there should be a camp in a third country in the area so that they can be in good conditions and that we should also be able to prosecute the various parents involved. We think that has been clear, and I have actually said this for years now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140936	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303140939	Thank you. I'm like sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl a little over it, which I also think is a bit like a rerun from last night. But again: I also stumbled over this because, on the one hand, you want to do a whole lot differently for the children and, on the other hand, you want to back up the line of not bringing the families here. I guess the left has to make up for themselves whether you want to stick eel or go on a hare hunt. On the one hand, you cannot be a friend of the children and be commended by Mr. Sikandar Siddique and Mr. Torsten Gejl, as the rapporteur did last night, and on the other hand stand firm on this line with the fact that these families have chosen a future in the Middle East. One has to be clear and say: the future of these families lies in the Middle East; they have made a decision on that themselves. Where we can do something for the children is by exempting them from this rule of not being able to receive consular assistance, which we deprived the parents last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141042	It may come as a huge surprise to the Social Democrat rapporteur, but none of what I say every day is an attempt to get recognition from neither the Free Greens nor the Alternative, but rather to try to clarify what is the position of the Left and what has been the position of the Left for a long time. That is also why, when we were in government, we set up the inter-ministerial working group, and that is precisely why we believe that there is both a safety aspect in the short term, but that there is also a long way to go. That is why we have to have the necessary balance here, where we say, of course, that we do not want the parents back to the country. We have said this repeatedly, and we have worked for this too, as we sat in the government and that we even want them to be prosecuted at a very different pace from the slug speed in which the government has so far laid the foundations for it to take place. Because it is nothing new that I am addressing that we have to have them moved to a safer place, and it is nothing new that I am addressing that we have to have a prosecution of these people. Actually, I've been saying that for a really, really long time. So when you start to wipe it out that it should be us who are not showing action, I would say that, on the contrary, we have shown action both in setting up the inter-ministerial working group, which has apparently not had meetings since the elections, or at least perhaps only one meeting, and at the same time we have also called for and asked for action in relation to this international court.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141157	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141158	But I'm not talking about action. I am talking about wondering what kind of mixed signals you are sending out that you want to both at once, so that you are now continuing to make this suggestion that you should remove the children forcibly. Well, it's familiar. It has been clarified legally in Denmark a long time ago that it is not an option, and we have received answers from the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior back in 2019 that you cannot. Denmark does not have jurisdiction in Syria. We cannot make forced removals in Syria. Where we can do something to protect the children is through judicial cooperation with relatives at home and with humanitarian organisations, and it is by offering the children consular assistance, which we have taken from these traitors. But you can't do it like these kids have a really good life again. That opportunity has been robbed by their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141244	I clearly recognise that parents have made a completely terrible choice, which also has a huge importance in relation to those children. I just mean, like Parliament here, we have one, sorry, I say it, damn it, can you say that? That's why there's this balance that both ensures that parents are prosecuted locally, and at the same time we're doing everything we can in relation to the kids. And so we will continue to think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141313	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141317	Thank you for a fine rapporteur's speech, in which I also think many nuanced things were said, and some right things were also said, among other things. that children are without guilt. I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur can describe what conditions are needed to ensure that children are subjected to something so horrible that one or more Danish children have to be taken home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141342	That's why I was really glad that during our reign the inter-ministerial working group was set up to deal with exactly these feelings and some difficult matters. Because I really do not think it should be the task of this Parliament that we do this. In fact, I agree with the government that we should not sit and deal with each individual case, but that it is the working group that does so, and that is why I will let it do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141404	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141405	We do not have to deal with matters here in the Folketing, but we can talk in general about the conditions that we can read in the media, and what we hear about is that there is hunger, that there is a fire, that there is disease. Are these things together not enough for the Left to take home one or more Danish children?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141423-2	Whatever the question may be, it is really the same question: how and how to deal with these individual, specific cases, and it is therefore just that I am neither aware of the individual cases nor believe that I have the professional powers to go in and assess the specific cases. That is precisely why we set up the inter-ministerial working group during our reign, and frankly, I think we should let them work, and then we have to ask why they have apparently not worked, as it seems, I emphasize the appearance of the press.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141457	The next brief remark is to Mrs Inger Støjberg (UFG). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141500	Thank you. I would say that the first part of Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen's speech was quite fine, but then Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen quite openly: But on the other hand, and then it comes. So, I would like to say that from my point of view there is only one side to this matter, and that is the Danes' side and the Danes' side of security. That is why I must also just join the choir of both Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and also Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, asking about Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen can guarantee that no parents will come here as a result of the fact that, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen very openly says will help children here in special situations. - Sir... Michael Aastrup guarantee that no parents will follow at a later date?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141555	I think I have done so, but I can repeat myself and then say: we do not want these parents to come here with any decision that we make. Now, as Mrs Inger Støjberg also knows, because the government has not ensured that the camp has the necessary security, someone can be released from this camp. Others have already done so, not Danes, but other nationalities. So I can't guarantee that, in view of the lack of security, no one will get out of this camp and then go to Denmark on their own. That is precisely why we in the Left have been advocating time and time again over many months that we should have better security, for example. by moving the camp to another place. So it's hard for me to give a guarantee that there are no Danes coming out of camp and then up to Denmark, but it's not by our decision that not by our decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141644	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141645	Yes, but listen to me, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, that's not what I was asking. I didn't ask if anyone could get out of the camp. I was wondering if Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, as a result of the policy now being praised by the Radicals, is basically becoming a daily habit that the Radical Left praises the policy of the Left's aliens, which in itself I would be somewhat nervous about and as a result of the fact that Mr Aastrup Jensen, who is a member of the Socialist Group, has been a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. Michael Aastrup Jensen will help bring children here in special situations, can guarantee that their parents will not have any rights to come here. I'm not asking you what, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen wishes, but can Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen guarantee it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141733	I mean, I'm pretty sure I said yes to Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, with whom Mrs Inger Støjberg shares office fellowship, so I can repeat the 'yes' again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141740	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. And if the rapporteur would be kind enough to prepare for the next rapporteur. It is so fine, and it will be approved in the near future. That's it, that's it. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Karsten Hønge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303141803	Thank you. As I predicted at the start of the debate, it is becoming a competition to distance itself from the Islamic State and the foreign warriors with the strongest possible words. And today I did not hear a word or a concept of the people for whom I cannot entirely vouch for myself. So I don't have to throw myself into that competition. This is a question that is easy to answer when we discuss help for children in prison camps. It is heartbreaking to see children live in such inhuman conditions. At the moment the camps have turned into mud pools in several places; at some times there is frying heat, and in others there is freezing cold and wind. The kids are just little people who, without their own fault, have ended up in these hellhouses. So on the one hand, the answer is easy: Denmark must help here and now. However, I fully recognise that our actions are full of dilemmas and opposing interests, because we have no desire to lend a hand to criminals and terrorists. And I guess it's between these positions that we have to find a credible humanistic position. For SF, the concern for careless vulnerable children is the most important. On the television newspaper yesterday, I saw the UN Special Rapporteur Aoláin being quite clear in his recommendation. She says that she will encourage Denmark to lead and show the rest of the world how we make use of our national system, which is highly respected worldwide in terms of children's rights, inclusion and child welfare. After all, we make perfectly justified demands on applicants for Danish citizenship. We are very aware of the value of our citizenship. It is, of course, entirely at the heart of what defines a nation state, and it is so valuable because it, among other things, is. means that we together help and protect each other. A citizenship must be difficult to obtain, and then you must not be able to have it. Denmark has obligations, not to everyone, and not all citizens behave as they should. We have seen Danes imprisoned abroad for drug crimes, paedophilia, murder and so also in prison camps in Syria. Horrible types all to mob. However, as Aoláin also said on television yesterday, one must respect one's values when it is the hardest, when it is politically hardest and when it is easiest to reject them. I have my eyes on the children, including those who are so unbelievably unlucky to have parents who have put them in such a miserable situation. But as I mentioned before, this is full of dilemmas, and it will be able to cause problems for Denmark now or in the future. Then it is that I think we should look at the report we have received from PET, where they quote CTA's assessments that the longer they are in the camps, the worse it gets and the greater the challenges later. I wouldn't even say this is a simple challenge. We recognise that solving a problem can open the door to others. But children who grow up in horrible camps must have a helping hand, and citizenship must make sense, even when it is difficult and full of dilemmas. The children have suffered enough, and they have to go home, and they should not bear the burden of parental choice. And then I understand from the debate that it is partly about how difficult the children are. So it is evidently also the question that if you are sufficiently badly injured or sufficiently exposed, you may be able to get help. In conclusion, I shall read out the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the SF: Proposals for adoption • Danish children must return from the camps in north-east Syria as soon as possible. Children should not be punished for the actions of their parents. For Denmark's safety, Danish children must be taken home for de-radicalisation and treatment. Children are at risk of lifelong psychological damage with lack of treatment in the camps. Denmark must uphold conventions and fundamental principles of the rule of law. V 78).
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142245	Thank you for the proposal for adoption. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First of all, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142251	Thank you. The whole question now arises of how and how we ensure that these men as women of the Syrian warriors are prosecuted in the local area. There I have been trying for a long time, a little alone, to raise this issue with the Kurdish forces in the north-east of Syria being really hard pressed and therefore we should be able to create some kind of international alliance so that we can prosecute these people in a safer area, so that we do not suddenly run the risk of having even worse humanitarian conditions for those in the camp, but also something in terms of security. Does SF share this analysis that the government's pace may not be exactly the highest in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142338	In fact, I do not quite know in detail whether the government could have done it more quickly, but I certainly agree with the government that it is a good idea to look into the possibility of having such an international court set up somewhere in the area. I obviously share that with the Left too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142356	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142357	Thank you. It is so obvious that we have at least said it repeatedly in the press and in the hearings, but we obviously have to say it more clearly so that even the SF's Foreign Affairs rapporteur can hear it. But that just doesn't change what I asked about, namely how we can ensure that this happens more quickly, so that we don't suddenly have a completely absurd security situation where these Syrians can be allowed just to travel unhindered. So how does the SF view it, also in relation to the local Kurdish authorities in the north-east of Syria? We also need to give them a hand in this. So how does SF see that we can make a difference in getting this international court done?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142438	At any rate, I am glad that we are fully in line and agree that this is a work that needs to be started and that it needs to be done. So we are in complete agreement on that, and I fully agree with you, Mr President. Michael Aastrup Jensen's assessment of how disastrous this could develop. But I must also be quite honest and say that I am simply not in a position to assess whether the government can do so more quickly than they are doing today. So that's the honest answer. I urge the government to do so as quickly as possible. I simply cannot give grades as to whether it is fast enough as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142502	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142505	Thank you for that and thank you for your contribution. Is Mr. Karsten Hønge agrees that if you implement the policy that the Socialist People's Party, together with Enhedslisten and Radicale here, is trying to get through the Folketing in relation to the children, will it in all likelihood mean that a large part of the children's parents will also come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142528	The general theme of my speech was that this is full of dilemmas, and I will not stand by and say that we can just take care of the children, that everything is going so well and that there is probably no problem with their parents. So I recognise and believe that yes, there will be a challenge there. It would be sweeping it under the carpet to say that there isn't. That is the dilemma we are faced with, that is to say, what is to be given the greatest weight. In this specific situation, we simply attach the greatest importance to the welfare of children, and then we also take a look at how many adults this is and whether it is something we are able to deal with. As opposed to the PET report, we believe that, overall, we are able to deal with the isolated cases that will be where a parent comes along. But denying that it will happen is not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142616	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142617	Well, I think that is liberating honestly from the SF's rapporteur, that is to say that it says: yes, there will of course be parents with these children to a large extent if you implement the policy that you ask the Folketing to impose on the government. Does it not also agree that, if so, it is adult people who have expressed clear sympathy for, support and support for, and perhaps even participated in, the terrorist regime of the Islamic State and that, therefore, if not terrorists, potential terrorists are allowed into our country with open eyes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142656	As I understand it, with the gallery of parents who are, apart from the fact that it is limited, there is a lot of difference between them. I can see that one of the mothers has apparently tried to escape from the Islamic State already a month after she came down there, so I think there is a modulation. But why deny it? I think there will be some who are hardcore Islamists. There will also be some who are not, and therefore the answer to it must be that if they come to Denmark, we must imprison them and they must be sentenced. The challenge is there, just as the challenge is there as we speak here. There are also Islamists in Denmark who do pretty much the same things these parents do. So the challenge is there, but the difference is that there are some children here who pay the price, and we do not think it is a price that children have to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142744	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur present in the Chamber must be Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. No, it's sir. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. I couldn't see you when you were at a blind angle; I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303142833	Thank you for the floor. It's never the kids' fault. It's the adults' fault. The adults who carry out the atrocities. ▪ That was the Prime Minister's strong apology to Godhavnsboys, and it was a good speech and a real speech. The message in the speech must apply to all Danish children from Holstebro to Al-Hol, i.e. that it is never the children's fault and that children are without blame for their parents' actions. Wherever Danish children grow up, they must grow up with opportunities and with play and not in a camp, with dreams and not with nightmares. Radical Left fears that the government will in future give a new excuse for a gigantic failure this time to the Danish children in deadly camps in north-east Syria. Denmark has always advocated tolerance, human rights and the letter of the law. But you can't just preach it, you have to do it. That is what legal professor and UN Special Rapporteur for the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the fight against terrorism, said yesterday to DR News. She went on to say: these relationships are the perfect basis for extremism and violence. When people lose all hope when their day-to-day is defined by violence, failure and complete lack of dignity, extremism thrives, so does recruitment. ▪ The same conclusion was reached last year by PET, and I quote: It is unlikely, according to the Center for Terror Analysis's assessment, that a current terrorist threat from children travelling from Denmark to the conflict zone is emerging. It is also the CTA's assessment that the risk of indoctrination and influence is increased as a starting point, the longer the children stay in a radicalised environment, including in the camps in north-east Syria. It is perfect conditions for extremism and there is an increase in the risk of radicalisation, the longer the children stay in the camps. If you want Denmark's safety, the children must return home as soon as possible, because it cannot be in Denmark's interest to allow the children to stay and develop into new foreign warriors who will harm Denmark or democratic values. We can also read in the media that a Danish girl of 4 years of age has been diagnosed with ptsd. Doctors say, according to articles in Dr.dk and in Berlingske, that child should go home as soon as possible, otherwise it will have serious and lasting but. We hear about poor food supplies to the camps and about a fire in Al-Hol camp this weekend, where four died. It's not a place for kids. Is a majority just waiting for the kids to get hurt? Is a majority waiting for things to go all wrong? The government must guarantee that no Danish children die in the camps on the government's watch. Hope is not a strategy, know we're a well-known phrase in the government, but these kids now have only a slender, slender hope, and what is really the government's strategy with that? For the authority group which coordinates it has not met for a year and a half, according to what can be read in the media. And it will be a disastrous, catastrophic failure if we do not pick up the 4-year-old Danish girl with ptsd home. She and other children have not turned their backs on anyone. The children have mostly turned in their mother's belly, and Denmark should not turn its back on the children. We do not fight Islamism or evil by giving up the rights of Danish children. Where are the Danish and democratic values we claim to fight for if we throw them overboard in the fight? If the politicians don't fight for the kids, who does? Who will the children trust if the adults in Christiansborg fail? The Danish children have to go home, but we cannot be familiar, because it is never the children's fault.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143255	Thank you to the rapporteur. The first brief remark is from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143259	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard on behalf of the rapporteur. I have the same question for Mr. Kristian Hegaard as previously to Mr. Karsten Hønge on the consequences of the policy the Radical Left wants to pursue here: Is Mr. Kristian Hegaard agrees that if you implement the policy that the Radical Left is asking the government to bring these children to Denmark, it is very likely that a large proportion of the adults, the parents who are responsible, will also come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143330	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143331	The consequence of not following Radical Left policy and taking Danish children home will be that they stay in these camps and are further radicalised. And if those children are further radicalised, it will be a far greater security threat for Denmark than if they come home. Therefore, on the basis of a safety recommendation, I can request that the Danish children go home. It will be best for their future and for their de-radicalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143400	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143402	That was a real politician's answer, because it was not an answer to the question I asked. The question I asked was: if you follow the policy that the Radical Left here is asking to implement, namely that the children come to Denmark, Mr. Kristian Hegaard agreed that this would very likely mean that part of the adults who are responsible, the children's parents will subsequently also come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143426	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143427	If you follow the policy of the Radical Left, you take the Danish children home, and in a number of situations it would also be sensible to radicalise the children to take their mothers home. We can see this from what has emerged from DR articles and Berlingske, namely that it is a prerequisite for the treatment of psychological damage or for radicalising them that you take the mother home, for example. So it is good for security to radicalise and follow the recommendations that come in professionally also for the sake of the child's best interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143459	The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143503	Thank you. I would like to continue where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl escaped, because this security thing seems to me to be pretty crucial, and Mr. Kristian Hegaard is probably aware that there are IS warriors who have committed terror in Europe. In November, a 20-year-old man committed a terrorist attack in Vienna. Six different places downtown he killed people with guns, machine guns and machete. He had previously been in prison because he had joined the Islamic State and had undergone a radicalisation programme. He had then been released again because he had said that he had now become a good, freedom-loving democrat. Nevertheless, it came to cost lives. How does Mr. Kristian Hegaard on this kind of case, and how would he avoid this kind of case if Mr. Kristian Hegaard had power, as he has observed, in relation to bringing a lot of Islamic state warriors to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143555	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143557	Well, first of all, it would be good for Danish security to take the children home and have them radicalized. Then there's that risk less, anyway. Then there are fewer people who can pose a future threat to Denmark. What we must also bear in mind is that the camps in which children and possibly their families find themselves will not exist forever. The question is how to deal with those families that could pose a threat in the future if they now come back into the hands of the Islamic State. We must also avoid this, that is to say they will not be re-recorded. So in this way there are a large number of advantages in terms of safety. Because I disgust exactly the same thing Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, people who go out and fight the things we stand for in Denmark. Therefore, with everything we can, we must ensure that there is no further radicalisation and they cannot be re-recorded to the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143654	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143657	Thank you. I would also like to take this opportunity to criticise Mr. Kristian Hegaard for something else. This morning in P1, I heard Mr. Kristian Hegaard's party colleague Bjørn Elmquist, who had leaked a letter from the Prime Minister, has the same considerations about excuses for the Godhavn boys, as Mr. Kristian Hegaard expresses himself. And I wonder how you can reason that way. So, because the Godhavns boys were abandoned by the state in Denmark, where we, the state, have jurisdiction. The children in Syria are abandoned in Syria by their parents, i.e. by their parents in another country where Denmark has no jurisdiction. How can you compare these two things? I can't believe it. It was this morning when I heard it on the radio, and now I have the opportunity to ask the party colleague a question in which he himself brings it up on the platform today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143743	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143744	Danish children are Danish children wherever they are. Whether Danish children are in Holstebro, Holbæk or Al-Hol, Denmark has a responsibility for Danish children, and that is what we must live up to. That is what we must safeguard in relation to, among other things. The children's convention. Therefore, it is unbearable when you hear about Danish children who are in deadly camps and who suffer psychological trauma and are subjected to warlike conditions. So we cannot bear that Danish children are exposed to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143815	No one else has asked to speak on the rapporteur's proposal, so we thank the radical rapporteur. The next person to be ready is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Can I just ask Mrs. Rosa Lund to drink off? Rosa Lund We always have to clean up after Radical Left). Yeah, it's hard! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303143855	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate. I think it is very good that we have another opportunity to discuss this very serious matter. And I think that the relevant question today is: what does the government actually do? In Enhedslisten we have asked a lot of questions about the children in Al-Hol camp and in Al-Roj camp. We have asked a great many questions about the situation of adults, for example. If anyone has been charged at all and if the prosecution knows about this. In so many of the answers we receive from the government, the government refers to an authority group. I was also given the opportunity to ask the Foreign Minister about this earlier, and I do not really think I was given an answer. We are constantly being referred to this authority group. In fact, it is often the case that we start by asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who refers us to the Minister for Justice, who then refers us to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, who then again refers us to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who then refers us to an authority group which we can then read in the Extrabladet not really meet. So it is very relevant to get an answer as to what the government is actually doing in this matter. I think it is very cafkask, and unfortunately I do not think there is any indication that you are helping these children. And we think that in the Enhedslisten is really a shame, because we actually think that we have a responsibility for these children... they're Danish citizens. Therefore, we have a responsibility to ensure that they have a safe and good childhood, and the way we ensure it is by bringing them home to Denmark. According to the government, foreign fighters pose a huge threat to Denmark. I fully agree with that. But where they are now, there is no guarantee that they will be judged; there is no guarantee that they will be prosecuted and convicted for their atrocities. That security will be greater if we take them home to Denmark. We have seen in Finland that there have been foreign fighters on the border knocking on the door and saying that now they want to go home. They've run away from these camps. It says that the security situation in these camps is not very good, and that cannot be surprising because the Kurds are on their knees. They have used all their resources to defeat the Islamic State. I actually think we owe them a favor to say the least we owe them. Although the government withheld PET's assessment of the Danes trapped in Syria for a year, it does not change PET's conclusion that we are helping to increase the risk of terror by leaving the children alone. As PET has concluded, the risk of terror will be lower the sooner we get them home. At the same time, I would also like to say that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is right when he says that the victims of Islamic State crimes have a legitimate expectation that the criminals will be convicted. I fully agree with that. And that is really my errand when I say and we say in the Enhedslisten that the Danish foreign fighters or the Danish terrorists, or whatever to call them, are going to Denmark, so they can just come to court, because that is not where they are now. It hits the kids who don't have a share in this. It is their parents who have made a choice... that the children do not. But it also affects some others, namely the Kurds; the Kurds who have fought Denmark's fight against the Islamic State with very high human costs. They are now holding Danish citizens captive because as a country we cannot take responsibility for them. Thanks for coming in and helping out, don't you guys do the cleanup, too? That's the message we're sending to the Kurds here, and I don't think we can be familiar with that. I can support the text adopted by Mr Seligman on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144257	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144302	I should just like to ask Mrs Rosa Lund to confirm that I really think it would be worth hearing from the rapporteur's speech that if it is in the Enhedslisten, the government's support party, then not only the children, for whom the SF and Radicals have also fought in the adoption text that lies, but also the adults to Denmark. Because Mrs. Rosa Lund's logic is, the threat of terror on the part of these people is smaller in that they are staying in Denmark than in that they are not staying in Denmark, so that is why they must be brought to Denmark not only the children, but also their parents. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144344	Well, it's not just a logic, I've got it's also a logic that the police intelligence service has, at least when it comes to the kids. But yes, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, it is perfectly understood that we in the Enhedslisten believe that all Danish citizens should go to Denmark so that they can be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144401	Just to put history in place: We are some who have thought that by joining the Islamic State and this reign of terror has denied Denmark to such an extent that they are actually losing their Danish citizenship. A majority has thought that this should apply when it comes to dual citizenship, while we in the Danish People's Party believe that we should go further. In fact, however, Enhedslisten has also been opposed to this, and it has been thought that the people who had dual citizenship and had turned their backs on Denmark by joining the Islamic State should nevertheless be allowed to come to Denmark again and perhaps take part in a trial and may or may not be convicted, depending on the evidence that can be found, but thereby have their future in Denmark. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144444	For the sake of histories, I would like to confirm once again that Enhedslisten's position is that Danish citizens who sit in the IS prison camps in Syria are going to Denmark so that they can be prosecuted for their atrocities. The best way to ensure that these people are punished for their atrocities is to take them to Denmark and put them in court. That is quite correct, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144510	The next question is Mrs Inger Løjberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144513	Thank you. I do not really want to discuss politics with Mrs Rosa Lund, because I do not think we are going anywhere with that. But there was a discussion before with Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen on whether or not parents could be prevented from coming here if it was that the children had first been helped to Denmark. How does Mrs. Rosa Lund feel about this? Can you prevent parents from coming here, for example? prevent them from seeking family reunification or otherwise using international conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144545	No, I do not believe that parents can be prevented from coming here when they are Danish citizens. If they are parents of a Danish citizen, they can apply for family reunification. After all, we are in a situation where the vast majority of fathers have been killed, so it is mainly the mothers we are talking about, but Mrs Inger Løbberg, with whom I would like to discuss politics, is quite right that it would be a breach of international conventions and of the child's best interests not to give parents family reunification.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144615	Mrs. Inger Løjberg, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144617	It was not because I did not want to discuss politics with Mrs Rosa Lund. It was more a statement that we will not get that far. It is very, very rare that I have seen Mrs Rosa Lund take up some of my arguments, I would say. But I just want to hear Mrs. Rosa Lund's assessment of it, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen like tried to say on the platform. It's actually just to get Mrs. Rosa Lund to confirm that, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen said that it is not possible to take the children here and leave the parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144653	That is our clear view in the Enhedslisten. We also have some medical assessments of a 4-year-old girl who has ptsd, and the medical assessment is that the girl will get worse if we separate her from her mother. I think that, in fact, is enough argument in itself to take the mother home. So notwithstanding the fact that Mrs Inger Løjberg and I have different approaches to this debate, I fully agree with the interpretation that it is not possible to take only the children home. Then there is at least a lot of legislation that needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144723	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303144744	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the question debate. For the Conservative People's Party, it is crucial that we constantly focus on the homeland and on the security of the nation. One should not have followed much in the recent public debate in order to have caught up with the fact that this is a subject that is very sensitive, especially when it comes to children. And that makes an impression, even when you have children of your own. We all want the best for our children, for Danish children and for other children. But what we must also bear in mind is that the children are the children of the parents. We want to help those children, but no matter how we turn it around, we cannot be guaranteed that parents do not keep up, and that is the big challenge. Therefore, it is extremely important that we have the nuances when we discuss this, because if parents come here to Denmark, we also import a safety risk. We are talking about terrorists who have turned their backs on Denmark and who have chosen to support a terrorist organisation that is so terrible that I cannot express how much disgust I have for that organisation. If you are so stunned that you opt out of Denmark to join something so cruel, it is a choice you have made yourself, and then you have to answer for it. Denmark must in no way try to retrieve terrorists who have turned their backs on Denmark. This is, first and foremost, a security issue. We must not gamble with the Danes' safety in order to be able to come to the rescue of some people who hate Denmark. Remember that many of them burned their Danish passports demonstratively on YouTube and boasted with their caliphate passports. That is, they became part of the caliphate. Had the caliphate won, they would not have given Denmark a thought, but now that the caliphate is pressed, Denmark is good enough again. I don't think they're victims. They are made by those who want them to Denmark as if they were victims, but they are not. The real victims are the many innocent people killed by the Islamic State: different thinking, Western hostages, homosexuals and Yazidi women. Over 6,000 Yazi women and children disappeared and women were sold as sex slaves among the IS terrorists. The Islamic State even issued a manual to their supporters on how to treat those sex slaves. We have one story after another with women who went down there from the West, joined the Islamic State and became part of it and some of the most brutal were women. By the way, some of the most insane Islamists I have ever met have been women. So because they're women, that doesn't mean they're victims. A TV show has been made on Netflix, which you can see about women and their role in the Islamic State. It is made from the many interrogations that have been made by the women who have participated in the Islamic State. It is extremely brutal and many of them have got jihadism under their skin. You can see that when reports are made from these camps. We have seen Danish Radio's reports by Michael S. Lund and Puk Damsgård, where they are interviewed. They still praise away the Islamic State. There was even a 9-year-old Abdullah who wanted to be a holy warrior, and his mother was very, very proud of him. That is the type of person you want back to Denmark, and we are therefore opposed to it. We want to help the children, but we simply do not want the parents of Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303145220	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Moreover, the time is so advanced that the other speakers will not be allowed to make brief comments either. The next speaker is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303145241	In 2013, Jacob el-Ali went to Syria and put on the Islamic State's uniform and posed next to bleeding, headless bodies and severed heads. In October 2019 we voted in New Citizens to deprive him and other IS terrorists of their Danish citizenship. Unfortunately, this was not adopted. The Left and the Radical Left did not even want to hear about it. The Social Democracy, the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance would only deprive the IS terrorists of dual citizenship: the Danish. This had the consequence that Jacob el-Ali was extradited to Denmark, and in December 2020 he landed at Copenhagen Airport. I understand very well that many Danes do not understand that a majority in the Folketing leaves the consideration of international conventions above the consideration of the Danes' security and security. And I understand the Danes who were shocked that a terrorist who had turned his back on Denmark, fought for the Islamic State against Danish soldiers, against Danish values, was allowed to come to Denmark when the Islamic State had suffered defeat. In January 2020, a majority, including New Citizens, decided that children of Danish parents born in areas where a terrorist organisation is party to an armed conflict should no longer automatically be able to become Danish citizens. This is positive, but it does not mean that there are no children with Danish citizenship in camps in Syria. And, of course, this is an unfortunate situation for those children, because of course they have neither chosen their parents nor to go to Syria. But they are the children of their parents. If they end up going to Denmark in any way, they must of course be assessed by the Police Intelligence Service, and there is a very big difference between whether we are talking about a baby or a child who is older, as the example, for example. Mr. Naser Khader here earlier. And those who may pose a safety risk are of course not going to Denmark. In the case of orphans, they must be placed in foster families with Danish background on arrival in Denmark. If there is a mother or father in Syria, the children of the parents must be given for adoption to a family with Danish background. Family reunification must never be possible, and this must be clarified in the legislation. We'd be happy to change that. Because the traitorous terrorist parents are not going to Denmark. It may well be that it goes against international conventions and obligations, and for me and new citizens it is quite meaningless. For us, there is nothing more important than the safety and security of the Danes in their own country. No international convention or interpretation of it should stand in the way of our being able to protect ourselves from terrorism, violence and assault. We cannot allow the security and security to be subordinate to some convention that the politicians of the past saw an interest in joining. Back in February 2019, Mr. Anders Samuelsen: Denmark may be best served by returning dangerous Danish IS warriors. That's a crazy naive quote. For when the IS terrorists and yes, let's call them what they are; we shall not glorify them as warriors • come within the borders of the country, then they will not come out again. It can never be or be an advantage. We must not allow traitors who have fought with violence and force everything we stand for to return to Denmark. They must stay where they are, and that is also why we are clearly saying that, as the situation now stands, we cannot support the return of these children. That is our clear position in the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303145702	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There are thus no more rapporteurs, and I will give the floor to the Prime Minister in order to round off the 'no' vote, which is the Minister for Foreign Affairs first. Good. I have on my papers that it was first the Prime Minister and then the Secretary of State, but that's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303145722	Thank you, President. It has been agreed that I will reply on behalf of the Minister, and I shall be relatively brief. After all, we have had a wide-ranging discussion here today and, as it also shows, cases involving children of foreign fighters have great complexity. There are no easy solutions, but let me stress: the government does not plan to work actively to help foreign fighters to Denmark. Their children may exceptionally be evacuated in specific cases for medical reasons. But it will require the mother to consent to separation from her child, for foreign fighters are basically unwanted in Denmark. There are different perceptions of what should and should be done in cases of foreign fighters who have involved their children in their own support of the Islamic State's Terro regime. Today's debate has shown this with great clarity. However, the government's clear view is that there is broad support in the Folketing for the line we have taken: Foreign warriors have turned their backs on Denmark, freedom and democracy; they have made their choices; their future is not in this country, and therefore we must not help them to Denmark; they must now take full responsibility for that choice, and that also applies to the situation in which they have openly brought their children into. Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303145842	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl the word for the end • there is a single minute? There is a possibility of this being done in time. It is not for a question; it is for the end of the debate and it will only be possible for one minute. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303145910	I just wanted to say thank you to the parties of the Folketing and also to the government for this debate. So, what was our purpose in doing so by the Danish People's Party was really to have the certainty that children of these potential terrorists will not be brought to Denmark if it is in any way at risk that parents will also come to Denmark. I asked at the beginning if I could get a proper guarantee from the government about it. I don't think I've had that. I mean, we haven't got a guarantee that this isn't gonna happen. And that is why I would just like to appeal to you to really keep your tongue straight in your mouth and ensure that, when we debate and deal with this in the future, we do not risk bringing Denmark into a situation where, because you become soft in your knees, you take some children to Denmark, which subsequently turns out to be actually the entrance ticket for their parents. This is the clear view of the Danish People's Party about this, and I am glad that there are other parties who are also advocating this. Then there are some where it gets a little more woollen, and then there are some of the government's support parties, who quite openly say that these children should be opened up and even as far as Enhedslisten is concerned also for their parents. So there really is something to live up to from the government. We will keep a close eye on the government's compliance with what has been promised to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150028	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. No one else gets the floor in this round. The debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will not take place until Tuesday 9 March 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150053	I must inform you that it is not possible for the Minister of Health to answer the oral questions. 7 and 8 in the Chamber today, why the Minister for Economic Affairs, on behalf of the Minister for Health, will answer these questions. I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, will be answered in writing. 6 to the Minister for Health, by Liselott Blixt (DF), is removed from the agenda at the request of the author. I should also like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 18 to the Minister for Employment of Ulla Tørnæs (V) is deleted at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150123	The first question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, by Mr Gundelach. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150140	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150141	Thank you, Minister. What is the position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the Socialist Members of the European Parliament have voted in favour of a report on, among other things: European minimum wage, when this is a threat to the Danish model, where it is the social partners who agree on wage conditions and when the Danish trade union movement has clearly warned against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150218	Here you go to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150219	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. Let me make one thing clear straight away: the government is opposed to any regulation that could undermine the Danish labour market model directly or indirectly. This is well known in the Folketing and in Brussels, and this also applies, of course, to the proposal for a minimum wage. This report is not about minimum wage, which is referred to, but about the problem of poverty among people working in Europe and, as those who know about the work of the European Parliament know, a report as a whole can be voted in favour, but no to specific elements, and that is what has happened in this case. S MEPs have voted against the paragraphs of the report which deal with the regulation of minimum wages and the report. We generally agree that there is a problem of poverty among people working in Europe. There should be no doubt about that, nor should there be any doubt that wage conditions in Denmark are regulated by the social partners, and it is crucial that EU initiatives do not change this either now or in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150329	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150330	Thank you. It is quite true that the Socialists have voted against the minimum wage part, but at the same time the Socialists have voted in favour of the whole report, which also contains that part on the minimum wage. And the European Union and the Folketing have also made a virtue of telling us that there is now an agreement on minimum wage. It just makes me very concerned, because here in the Folketing we all agree that what is happening in the EU is a threat to the Danish model. I myself am a member of the Committee on European Affairs, and there has been a deep concern about the interference that is taking place. We have had the trade union movement in front of us who have warned against this interference. That is why we in the Danish People's Party are somewhat concerned that, on the one hand, in the Danish Parliament, and that is also the government and the Social Democrats, we are warning against interference in the Danish model, while at the same time the Social Democrats are voting in favour of the whole report. I can tell you that the Danish People's Party voted against not only the minimum wage, but the whole report. The Socialists in the European Parliament could have done the same. So what worries me is that there is a clear policy on the part of the government and it is clear; it is the same as the Danish People's Party, namely that we want to maintain the Danish model • but at the same time we have Danish MEPs in the European Parliament, Social Democrats, who vote in favour of the whole report and therefore also the minimum wage and thus also interference in the Danish model. Does the Foreign Minister not think that there is cause for great concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150520	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150522	First of all, I would like to say that I welcome the fact that the Danish People's Party supports the government's line in this matter. Now the Minister for Foreign Affairs is also burdened with knowing how the work is going on in the European Parliament, and the own-initiative reports here in a wide range of policy areas which we are talking about here are reports that are not binding, and I believe that the members of the DF are also aware of this. This is about recording the work of the Commission, and therefore there is no contradiction in the fact that the S Members have voted in favour of the report, but voted against the elements relating to the proposal for a minimum wage. It is quite natural to do so if, moreover, the general line of the report is correct, but not that of the minimum wage, and that is what is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150606	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150607	The next element is that the EU is becoming more and more involved in Danish affairs, and this is due to the way in which the EU is built. We in the Danish People's Party simply fear that the EU will enter the labour market and eventually undermine the Danish model. And it is, of course, the whole foundation of our balance between social security and a free labour market, while countries like France and Spain do not enjoy the same freedom. So does the Minister not agree that there is really cause for concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150650	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150650-2	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen and DF are quite familiar with the Danish position, namely that these pay and labour market issues are a Danish matter, and it should not be possible to regulate them indirectly or directly through EU legislation. That is why we are opposed to a proposal for a minimum wage, and that is what the government and a united parliament are fighting for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150714	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150716	But then I'd like to know how to prevent it. After all, we see time and again that the European Union is taking on the right in areas that they have not had in the past. What will be the position of the government when the EU really takes over that area and makes it possible to maintain the Danish model? What will the government do to prevent this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150737	Here you go to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150738	There is a long way to go with my colleague, the Minister for Employment, about how to deal with this situation and how to prevent it, and I will leave that to the Minister for Employment. I just want to say a few general things. Firstly, we believe that the Treaty does not provide for the possibility of regulating pay conditions, and thus this proposal is not compatible with it. Secondly, we have our political opinion that wage issues, i.e. minimum wage issues, must be regulated by the Danish labour market model and not by EU legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150813	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150903	Here you go, Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150904	Thank you very much. I read out the question: Does the Minister think that the government and thus Denmark should follow the EU's warning and open the borders to Germany even more?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150915	Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303150917	Thank you. The entry restrictions that we have introduced on the basis of the covid-19 are an important tool in the overall effort to keep the infection down and get Denmark as best as possible through the pandemic. That has been our view since spring 2020, and that has not changed. Now we are in a situation where we can see new and more contagious viral variants around the world. At the same time, when we know that new variants can be introduced through entry to Denmark from abroad, this is of course a cause for concern. The current and since January of this year's reinforced entry restrictions are restrictive. In our opinion, this is necessary in the situation we are in in order to address the risks associated with new viral variants. That is why I do not see it relaxing the tighter restrictions on entry here and now. We are continuously monitoring the situation in order to assess whether there is a need to adjust the restrictions on entry and border controls. It is important that we act when the situation so requires. At the same time, however, we do not want to maintain burdensome restrictions for longer than is necessary, even in relation to entry. In the current situation, we need to act cautiously, also to ensure that the possibility of further reopening Denmark is not jeopardised. Among other things: That is why we have extended the stricter restrictions on entry to and including 5 April.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151050	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151050-2	Thank you very much. I am asking because it has come to light that the border controls that Germany and Denmark have and which we in the Danish People's Party think are good now stand for good. Why does it do that? But it is because of the European Union. The European Union has discussed this issue and has come to the conclusion that the border controls introduced by the government are not sustainable. In the Danish People's Party we are great supporters of border controls. We would like to see stronger and permanent border controls which can stem both infection but also crime • Islamists, terrorists who want to enter Denmark. So, the more border controls and permanent border controls are of course done in a proper way the better. Now we are faced with the fact that the European Union seems, and I would ask the Minister to elaborate on this, to have set a deadline for the countries, among other things. Denmark, that within 10 days you have to rectify these conditions, relax border controls; otherwise fines will be imposed. Can the Minister tell us a little more about where the Danish Government is on this issue? Because it is a well-known matter, even if we look back in history, that various parties in the Danish People's Party, not least the Danish People's Party, have wanted border controls, where the European Union has then come and said: you must not do it that way. That's not gonna work either. Now I want you to do it that way, and so on. etc. We do not want border controls between countries in principle. So I'd like to know where the government stands. Does the Minister believe that the border controls we have, with the level that is now, can stop the infection, can stop Islamisation and Islamists coming to Denmark? Does the government believe that the warning that has come from the EU leads to fines leads to other things such as court proceedings against Denmark? Does the government think that on the other side of the corona we should continue with that border control or another border control at all, and can we at all do that in the European Union? So the Minister must tell the Folketing where Denmark is in relation to these demands from the EU now and here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151301	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151302	Thank you. First of all, it is true that the Commission has sent a letter to Denmark asking about the need to refuse entry by other EU citizens. It is now a letter which is similar to one that has also been sent to, among other things. Germany, Belgium, Finland, Sweden and Hungary. The criticism is well known because the Commission has been advocating since spring that the entry ban is not proportionate. It is the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that these entry restrictions that we have are in line with EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151343	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151344	Yes, it is very good that it is in line with EU law, but the fact is that if this leads in one way or another to further relaxation of border controls around, for example, coronasmitte, then we are putting all the effort that the Danes are making in relation to combating corona in an extremely bad light, because the prerequisite for us to combat the spread of infection and, moreover, that we can have a normal everyday life is precisely that we avoid infection from outside. So what is the government going to do? Will it be maintained, will it be extended, so that we can protect ourselves against infection?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151425	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151426	Throughout the course of the covid-19, we have been of the opinion that we should have the border restrictions that were necessary to ensure that no infected chains were imported into the country. After all, this has meant that the intensity of our border controls has varied over time, and I think it should be forward-looking, also because, for example. On the border with Germany, on the other hand, the desire to maintain border controls as sharply as possible is of course the concern for the life to be lived across the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151505	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151506	Thank you. But you could solve this quite simply. After all, we are bound on the hands and feet of the Schengen Agreement in which Denmark has entered. It is an intergovernmental agreement in the case of Denmark, and one could withdraw from it. If you step out of it or withdraw it from the Danish side, you will be able to handle your border guard as you like, instead of being dependent on an EU that does not control its vaccines, who does not control who enters the country, where terrorists and other murderers can travel freely. The pandemic has thus helped us at least for a period of time to maintain a certain level of border control, but in the long term they are coming after us, and they have already begun to do so now, even though the pandemic is still flourishing. So my question to the government is: would it not be wise to withdraw from the Schengen Agreement? Will the government not work for us to step out of it so that we can decide for ourselves? Wouldn't that be a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151616	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151619	Under that question there is a premise that we should introduce full, complete and total border controls again, and I do not think that even the questioner himself thinks we should do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151632	Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151634	After all, border controls will be able to reject people who are infected, they will be able to reject people with weapons, they will be able to reject terrorists, and not only that, but it will also make us completely independent of the European Union. We should not ask for permission, we should not receive these letters from the European Union, we should be an independent state, and in this case it would be appropriate to take steps towards this. Why on earth doesn't the government want that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151704	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151705	Is it correct to understand that the Danish People's Party has the position that everyone who passes the Danish-German border should each and every one be checked?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151714	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup who asks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151738	Here in Question Time, the questions go from the questioners to the Minister, so if you want to ask questions to the questioners, we must have turned the situation around so that the Minister gets back into opposition and we would like to see that happen and then we can take such questions. But right now it's about questions to the government, and I really think that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen asked a very good question. Since there are such major problems, given that it is so difficult now that we are being fined by the European Union for just having the border controls that we have now, was it not an idea that we took the step of opting out of Schengen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151814	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151815	Questions are being asked, but it is also a dialogue process which must make us all wiser, and I simply do not believe that the Danish People's Party has thought this through if one takes the view that everyone, each and every one crossing the Danish-German border, must be checked every time. I do not think we have fully thought through what that will mean for the life that is lived across the border in the South Jutland area. That would have quite significant consequences. Therefore, regardless of Schengen in the real world, for the sake of the people who live in South Jutland, the Danish minority in Germany must beware of what they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151855	Thank you. The next question is also for the Minister of Justice and also for Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151901	Does the Minister consider that the current border control to Germany is adequate and can the Minister guarantee that it has the desired effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303151912	As you know, there are a number of restrictions on entry introduced in connection with the covid-19. Once we have introduced requirements for entry, it is clear that it must also be checked whether those requirements are now being complied with. Therefore, since spring 2020, when the entry restrictions were introduced, the police have checked the entry requirements at the borders. Although control is necessary, I would like to make it clear that full border control is not an end in itself. There are also other considerations we need to take into account in the equation, for example. the consideration of those who live in the border country and have arranged their lives across the border. It's always about finding the right balance. That is why we are constantly following the situation at the border, with the opportunity to re-evaluate and intensify controls. This is particularly true if the development of infection in our neighbouring countries is deteriorating. This year, too, we have on several occasions tightened border controls against Germany, not later than 20 February, in connection with the worsening disease situation in Flensburg. Most of the smaller border crossings were closed, while checks were significantly intensified at the remaining border crossing points. This sharpening is still true and we are following the situation in Flensburg very closely. It is, as it has been throughout the pandemic, the government's position that the covid-19 effort at the border is an important step in the overall management of the pandemic. This is not least the case in the current situation of new and contagious viral variants, where we need to proceed cautiously. It is also important so that we do not jeopardise the possibility of the further reopening of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152049	Thank you, Minister. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152051	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. I have no doubt that the government has a position that you should avoid getting infected into the country. Nevertheless, we have to note that it has been the case, on the government's watch, that infection has crossed the country's borders and, above all, from the start of the epidemic in Denmark, where there appears to have been a lot of tourists coming back from Austria and where there was no border control and where things were not in order at that time. Now we are in a situation where there are a number of different mutations at stake. It has come to light today that the Brazilian variant has also gained ground in Denmark. And that probably happens by people crossing our borders that carry this infection on. That is why border controls are essential to combat epidemics. And I think the government has actually acknowledged that. However, it is clear that if you are sitting in a straitjacket from the European Union that says that we must not do so and that if we do so we will have a fine, then we have a problem and a huge problem. And it's actually grotesque that the European Union, in their zeal to nurture this romantic idea that we should be able to move freely across borders, even in a pandemic period, insists that countries should be fined if they do not comply with some border controls requirements. It should be us, though, who decided this. What I really want to do is: can the government and the Minister guarantee that it is Denmark itself that, after the pandemic, also decides how we want our border controls and does not allow itself to be deprived of the fact that the EU threatens to impose fines or threatens to do so? Can we get a guarantee here in the Folketing from the government so that there are no obstacles to what we ourselves are doing, in terms of fighting pandemics, terrorism, Islamists, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152259	Speaking of tourists, which was some of what the questioner said: if I remember correctly, the author's party was actually prepared to go further in opening the borders than the government was when it was about the possibility of letting tourists in, who were going to rent summer houses in Denmark. And this really illustrates that the world is not as black and white as the questioner would do, namely that there are legitimate reasons why people should have the right to move across our borders and that there is a life that lives across borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152332	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152333	Well, I don't know, but maybe we should discuss this a little bit more in the Parliamentary Committee on the Rules of Procedure, because we are standing over here asking, both Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen and myself, about the same sometimes, and we can of course do that in a moment, ask the same question again, but the government has to answer. Well, minister means waiter, sir. Minister, please answer: can we be guaranteed that we are masters of our own house, or was it not an idea for us to resign from Schengen cooperation so that we can decide for ourselves whether or not we want border controls, and which?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152408	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152410	But we will return to the same problems as in the past, namely whether it really is a wish that we should have full and complete border controls and whether everyone should be monitored at all times. And I have been asked to deal with border controls, as it is at the moment, that is what is the Wednesday issue today and the way we deal with it is that we take a cautious approach to how open there should be at the Danish borders, but constantly assess what the intensity of controls should be, and, of course, not least what some worthy objectives should give rise to being able to enter Denmark at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152448	Then it is the co-author of this question, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152505	The border is holed like a sieve, and it is among other things. The government is to blame, but it is also, of course, the EU's responsibility. That is why the answer is to withdraw from Schengen, because then we can decide for ourselves what border controls should be. The Minister has tried to avoid the answer by saying that it will be completely airtightly closed, but the point is that if we leave Schengen, we can decide for ourselves how we want border controls. We can't do that today. Today, it is the European Union that is more or less in charge of it, and it is also Germany that is breathing down our necks. And when we have a pandemic and when we have terrorists in Europe, it makes sense that we take care of it ourselves. So why on earth does the government not want to step out of that Schengen cooperation, because then we can control it ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152606	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152608	I guess it's not really like that. If we look back from the time we were hit by the pandemic, we have had a lot of problems, but we have not actually had an EU problem dealing with the border situation. So I notice that Germany is breathing on our necks, and I have some doubts as to what is in this matter of Germany breathing on our necks, because are we going to remove Germany, or what is the consequence of Germany breathing on our necks? Or will they stop if we leave the European Union? Will the relationship with Germany be different?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152701	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152702	Well, the thing is very simple. The pandemic's gonna stop at some point. We're gonna get the corona together. Then there may be another pandemic at another time, but there will still be a terrorist threat, and there we are dependent on the European Union because we are part of Schengen cooperation. So I simply cannot understand why the government will not step out of that cooperation when it will give us free hands to organise our guard as we please so that we can protect the Danes. At the moment, we are not protecting them. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152737	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152738	No, I certainly do not agree that we are not protecting the Danes at the moment. I think we are doing a great deal to protect the Danes. It is both with border controls, but certainly also with tests, infection detection, vaccines, with everything that is being rolled out to combat the pandemic that we are in the middle of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152800	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup who asks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152820	If you have to conclude, and this is what you have to do at this point, to the answers that have come from the Minister, the Minister probably has the most desire to try to make fun of the Danish People's Party by saying that we will control all kinds of innocent people crossing the border. We all know that, even before Schengen cooperation, there was an excellent border control of officers and customs officers who stood at the Danish border and used their good noses to assess whether or not a small check should be made. This can also be the case in the future. But this requires us to be masters of our own house, and why will the government not ensure it, so that we avoid fines from the European Union and all sorts of other noise?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152902	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152903	First of all, I have to arrest it because I'm trying to make fun of the Danish People's Party. Under no circumstances am I. I wouldn't dream of that. I mean that very seriously. Secondly, I think that some of the lines we had also documented, or at least illustrated, that it is not so simple that if you just say 'out of Schengen', everything is good. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen himself had the wording that the Germans breathe into our necks, and where does that place us?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152934	Thank you to the authors, thank you to the Minister. The next question is Mr. Torsten Gejl with a question for the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303152957	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153000	Thank you, President, and welcome to the Minister. In the Climate Council's progress report 2021, there is a recommendation to adopt concrete measures to ensure further reductions in emissions by 2030. This is also true in areas where policy agreements have been concluded in 2020... as the overall climate action does not show that the 70-percent targets of the Climate Act are achieved by 2030. Does this conclusion come as a surprise to the government, or has the government constantly calculated such criticism from the Climate Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153036	Thank you. Here you go, climate minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153038	Let me put it this way: it is certainly not surprising that we do not currently have a fully detailed plan until 2030. In fact, I would like to turn it around and say: if, after a year and a half, we could have that plan, the target we had in 2030 was not ambitious enough. We set a 70-percent target, despite the fact that we were parties which, in the election campaign, although we thought we were ambitious, had actually said: we cannot give more than 60% of the instruments. But when we chose to say 70% anyway, it was because we have to set ourselves goals that are so ambitious that we constantly push ourselves to develop new solutions, new technologies and new ways of doing things. So I think that's an important point to take on board. Having said that, I fully understand the intention behind the question. I can also assure you that yes, we are in a hurry and we are constantly going to have to become more concrete. This is also what is involved in operating in two tracks, an implementation track and a development track; something that the Climate Council has recommended that we do, in recognition of the need for the development of new instruments. And there is the next step, for example. to follow the recommendations of the Climate Council, in terms of what we will do on ccs, the removal of land and the others, I think, quite sensible recommendations they made in their report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153201	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153203	Thank you. The Climate Council's clear recommendation to the government and the support parties is to reopen all the preliminary agreements made to achieve a 70-percent CO2 government plans to reopen the existing political agreements for 2020 and renegotiate each of them, not least the car agreement and green tax reform, with the focus on a much more significant CO2 alternative has soon stood in this Chamber for six months and insisted that these agreements were not ambitious enough. We referred to Greenpeace in relation to the proposal to open them again, and we have heard the same desire from the green organisations and a large number of climate experts. The agreements simply do not contain enough climate reduction. Do they need to be reopened?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153251	The first step is, of course, to complete the negotiations that we are currently engaged in. I do not want to hide the fact that we would have liked to have completed the negotiations on the agricultural sector last year. We were forced to postpone this because of the great crisis which was at the end of the year. The probes and negotiations are now taking place, and we hope, of course, that they will be concluded here in an affordable future. Then there are some other very urgent things that the Climate Council also recommends in terms of getting a strategy for ccs, for example. But ask me again, because I will answer, but the President will stand up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153334	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153334-2	Then I would just like to let the Minister finish his reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153341	It wasn't actually an attempt to ignore the fact that I couldn't have come up with it a rare time, but not here. Because it is very important to say that the fact that we have made some agreements does not mean that they will be in the future. On the contrary, we have made a great effort to formulate the agreements all the time in such a way that no one really should be in any doubt that we are constantly going to see whether we can do better. And some of the agreements simply state that they have to be evaluated by 2025, and then you have to see whether we are on the right track or not. The same applies to the tax agreement: there are, after all, some step-by-step steps that need to be taken and that mean that we are constantly going to visit them again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153424	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153424-2	I would like to quote from the Climate Council's report: the Climate Council notes that during 2020 the government has adopted instruments that meet about a third of the reduction requirement by 2030. This represents an important first step, but it cannot be assumed that we have now met one third of the challenge. This is because the Climate Council considers that there are uncertainties associated with most of the actions, including the agreements mentioned. Does the government agree with that criticism? Has the government not oversold the message a bit when the government has repeatedly claimed that we have reached a third of the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153456	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153456-2	No, I mean, it has to be said that if we agree that there is a shortfall of 20 million. We have reached over 7 million. Well, it's fair enough to say that we're over a third. However, if I am to come to the questioner and the Climate Council, I would say that it is true that one can easily interpret it and say: yes, it may well be that, objectively speaking, one third has been reached, but it is equally clear that the last two thirds are harder to reach than the first third. That is why it is like running a marathon race; when you've run a third, you probably can't afford to say: it went easy, I'm not tired at all. Well, I guess it's not like that. It is probably the last two thirds that are the hardest, and so it will be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153539	Thank you. The next question is also to the Minister for Climate Affairs and also to Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153546	We're gonna stay on track. It's a big report that's come in. In the Climate Council's progress report for 2021, the Climate Council estimates that the reduction measures adopted are to some extent low-hanging fruits and that there is little doubt that it is becoming increasingly difficult to find new tonnes for the pool of reductions. Does the Minister and the Government share that assessment? Has the Minister and the government made the easy decisions first and not the hard ones?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153610	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153612	Both-and. Well, it is clear that the things that lie straight ahead and that we can so it would also be strange if we had not done so. Having said that, some of what we have paradoxically been criticized a little bit is that we have invested quite a lot in things that will help us in the future. In other words, we have spent quite a lot of resources on something that does not provide for reductions right now, but which is going to provide us with it in the longer term, for example. CCS, where we have set aside 16 billion. kr. But it's gonna have to give us a lot in the long run. So this is an example of some of the things that are not easy, it is one of the things that really needs to be developed and where we still lack a lot, both strategy work, but also concrete implementation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153702	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153704	Thank you. After all, the Climate Council believes that the first third, which the Minister is talking about, is the first 7 million. t, only come home if we're very, very optimistic. This is very much a best case scenario, and that is why they say that it is not quite possible to count on this plus Is it not therefore important that we now start making concrete initiatives? It could, for example, be done. be some climate taxes. I would point out that several of the Social Democrats' rapporteurs have not wanted to support proposals to tax meat, petrol or air travel, but have sent CO2 We could go ahead with the work of introducing a CO2 What does the Minister think about us getting started?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153757	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153758	I will probably have to correct the questioner there, because it is simply not right to say that the Climate Council concludes that there is very great uncertainty about the 7 million. They don't. In fact, they conclude the opposite, i.e. that there is quite a lot of security. There is, of course, some uncertainty; there will always be. What they say there is great uncertainty about is what we have to do in the future. And that is where we have to become more concrete. Then there's the thing about CO2 there I just have to say that I'm confused. Because I thought the questioner was in favour of a cross-cutting uniform CO2 2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153838	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153838-2	And these are things like a bridge charge, and I think that if we are going to get started now, instead of sitting and waiting, i.e. just like the Climate Council wants, we could start with some of the baddest CO2 We could start with a meat tax, a tax on diesel and gasoline, a tax on aircraft, of course, with social compensation, which can then enter into force now or soon, and earn some tons of CO2 2 What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153909	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153910	Well, that's to some extent what the government does. Well, we do have a CO2 but actually it's like the Climate Council and others who are proposing a uniform CO2 you're suggesting that the CO2 is that which makes it a very, very difficult exercise. So for that reason, it's two slightly different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153944	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303153945	According to the Climate Council, the government has invested far too much on CCS, i.e. on vacuuming CO2 It sounds a bit like science fiction, and it is also seen with today's glasses. No one knows if it really is going to happen and whether it is worth it. Does the Minister agree with that criticism? In other words, the Minister agrees that we have no idea whether we are going to suck CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154017	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154017-2	No, I strongly disagree with that. Well, there's sucked millions of tons of CO2 so it's not because the technology isn't there. It's just too expensive yet, so we need it developed. I must also say that if we do not succeed, yes, we are reasonably ill-placed, because the United Nations Climate Panel also says in their projections that this is a necessary instrument if we are to keep the increase in temperature below 1.5 degrees, they are actually talking about negative emissions, which means that CCS is being connected to the burning of biomass or something similar. By the way, I do not see the Climate Council as being against CCS either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154054	Thank you both to the Minister and the questioner. I repeat, for the record, that it is not possible for the Minister of Health to answer his oral questions. 7 and 8 in the Chamber today, so the Minister for Business will answer these on behalf of the Minister for Health. The next question is to the Minister for Health by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154116	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154119	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is a reasonable government priority that the municipality of Læsø was not opened under the same conditions as Bornholm, and does the Minister believe that there are evidence-based facts behind the Danish People's Party's view illogical priorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154140	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154141	Thank you for that, and I will then answer the question on behalf of the Minister for Health. The experts have advised us to have a geographically differentiated reopening. We have listened to that and we have listened to it. On 1 March, school leaving classes were opened at 50 per cent. Attendance in North Jutland and West Jutland, and in addition, afterschools and high schools in the two areas have also been reopened with full attendance. If possible, the same reopening is expected to occur in several parts of the country per year. March 15th. This requires, among other things, that: a concrete assessment of the current disease situation in each part of the country. In addition, the government, SF, Radical Left and Enhedslisten have also expressed a desire to look at the possibilities for further opening of other smaller islands already per. 15 March, if again the disease situation allows. The reopening of Bornholm is based both on the present state of infection on the island, but also on a number of other conditions which are characteristic of Bornholm and which provide a basis for learning in relation to the other reopening of Denmark. For example: There are some 39,000 people living on Bornholm. In comparison, about 1,700 live on Læsø. Bornholm is unique, among other things. because of the population volume and geographical location with its own autonomous infrastructure, limiting mobility to and from other parts of the country. It is also important to stress that the partial reopening of Bornholm is therefore subject to the testing of a number of measures to prevent infection, such as: requirements for the presentation of negative tests on entry, massive focus on infection detection and requirements for the use of muzzles and the presentation of negative tests at the opening of the liberal professions. In this context, Bornholm's size therefore means that we will have a good basis for pooling experience on these infectious measures, thereby increasing the likelihood that we can draw significant learning for further reopening in other parts of the country as well. And then there is the fact that Læsø is already part of a part of a part of the country where the first steps to reopen have been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154349	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154351	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question sent to the Government. Whether it is one minister or the other, I am practically, perhaps not Greek Catholic in here, but certainly not interested in it. What is most important is, of course, that I get an answer. But the reason why I asked the question here is, of course, that it has given rise to a certain wonder around Denmark that one has not started with the small islands. It has become so modern in here to say that we have to solve all the problems from the bottom up, and perhaps some of the initiatives could be taken to let some of the small islands we have take the lead. Now it's Læsø that I noticed, because it was the mayor from Læsø who went to the media and said that he was what in North Jutland is called a bit disappointed. Now the Minister of Business is elected in North Jutland and knows that when you say a little disappointed, it can cover up something that is a little more than that. Well, there are 1,700 people living on Læsø, and they have two hairdressers and a primary school. Wasn't this a very good place to start, for example in relation to doing something that you can't do on Bornholm, namely make a quick vaccination number two of all residents? After all, it is easier to give a vaccine to 1,700 citizens in a municipality than to give it to all 39,000 inhabitants on Bornholm. So in relation to the so-called experiments around here, in our opinion, it would actually have made a great deal of sense that in that process some of the small islands had also been involved, because they can actually offer something that Bornholm cannot do, in relation to making the experimental models that the Minister, as I hear it, uses as the main motivation for the way in which the Danish islands were discriminated against. So, of course, I would like to hear from the Minister about the part that is about prioritising the small islands, which have quite a few of these types of businesses in the liberal professions. At the same time, I would like to say that it would actually be possible to carry out some other experiments here than those that can be carried out in a larger island municipality such as Bornholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154606	I understand the question, and I think it is quite obvious to ask it. I also understand the mayor, and I also know what it means to be a little disappointed. There's more to it than just a little bit. But it is clear that here and now, too, we are in the process of reopening society and having control of the infection and ensuring that the development of the infection is favourable, so that we can take the next step towards a further re-opening of society. That is why, of course, we have listened to these experts who have advised us to a geographically differentiated opening, and Bornholm has just one size where some good experience can be gained here in the early days, and hopefully we can already look at several of the smaller islands up to 15 March, if otherwise the development of the infection is with us. So this is nothing we are opposed to at all. We'll just take it in a different order from the one the questioner is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154652	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154654	I hope, then, that the Minister heard my question about what we cannot offer on Bornholm, and that is to be able to do a quick vaccination number two of all residents. You can on Læsø, you can on Ærø, you can on Samsø. This would enable us to go in more quickly and look at what it will really mean for a society that is fully open, including for the liberal professions, that the current vaccination programmes have been implemented. It would have been a very good way to do that, if you also wanted to have it clarified, of course, on top of the studies that you can rightly carry out on Bornholm, where it is by a completely different caliber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154741	I think we should be aware of the fact that one of the representatives of Bornholm is here in the Chamber, but I assume that this is because there is another question on the list and not because of this debate that there is of course a difference when it comes to a smaller population; it can be easily overcome. But, on the other hand, a sequence has been laid for how the vaccines should be handled, in relation to who is at risk and who should be vaccinated first and that is what we are following in the vaccine roll-out. So the proposal that is being put forward here does not seem to me to be so useful in the reopening situation we are in now. There it is better in our eyes to reap the experience that Bornholm can give us, and hopefully here already per. March 15th begin to look at some of the other smaller islands. In other words, if the development of infection is favourable, it is something we have agreed to look at as early as 15 March.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154830	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154832	Thank you. What I am asking is a total vaccination, and it is an experiment that will not be carried out on Bornholm in the same way as you could on Læsø, for example. It's a total vaccination I'm asking about. I can see that the proposal for a total screening is being carried out in other places, i.e. where you go into the whole of Vollsmose, where there are 8 000 people, mainly of foreign origin, and where there are very major problems and the chains of infection are spreading rapidly. That's where you take advantage of doing something totally. So why not seize the opportunity here too, with the relatively limited costs that would be to do a total vaccination on the small islands and thus also start from behind to see what a total vaccination will actually bring on these famous islands, where there are no 39,000 inhabitants on Bornholm?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303154932	In other words, I think we are wiser to stick to the vaccination order which is based on the health authorities' assessment of who is at risk, who is at risk, and therefore manage it in that order. Then it is clear that if there are specific outbreaks of infection in Vollsmose, then we must shut down quickly and have the whole area screened. We could also do that on Læsø if there was a sudden outbreak on Læsø. So in this sense there is no difference between what the questioner is asking about the screening approach. However, with regard to this change in vaccination order, we are therefore leaning on what it is for some risk groups that are given priority first.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155010	We thank you for the debate on Question 7. We move on to Question 8 to the Minister for Health. It is then the Minister for Industry who answers on behalf of the Minister for Health, and that question might as well have been under the Ministry of Industry. But at least it's Mr. Knox. Hans Kristian Skibby, Dansk Folkeparti, who asks a question to the Minister for Health, who is represented here by the Minister for Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155036	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155045	Thank you, sir. President. Does the Minister really believe that there must be 250 m2 of customer to contain coronasmite in line with, for example, the requirements set for the country's hypermarkets?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155057	Thank you. It is true that I am also answering this question on behalf of the Minister for Health. I understand if the questioner and others also think that 250 m2 per year. customer sounds like a lot, but we have to be careful. No one wants to have to shut the country down again. We are gradually and cautiously reopening on the basis of the assessments made by the authorities. They consider that it is best not to open up large centres and larger shops at this stage for the sake of precisely the risk of infection. The decision to reopen committee stores below 5,000 m2 was taken on the basis of a recommendation from the effort group, including the health authorities. A majority in the Folketing has also decided to reopen committee stores of 5,000 m2 or more, which are not located in large centres, for a very limited number of customers, against the fact that there are also time orders. So this is something that the Statens Serum Institute has found to be health-friendly. So the whole thing here is again about the infection situation, to maintain epidemic control and to move gradually forward so that we do not have to go back again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155214	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155215	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. The reason why I am asking this question is that, as the Minister for Business is well aware, we get a lot of inquiries from many of those who are self-employed in Denmark, especially the large companies, those in the retail trade, who have a lot of space available. It is difficult to explain to people that in some places you can only have 10 m2 available per year. customer to ensure that there is no running corona from one customer to the other. Others need 20 m2 to ensure prevention and containment, etc. And then there are some places where you're supposed to have • I just don't know what you've been thinking, or whether you've thought at all • 250 m2 per. customer in relation to these area requirements at shopping points where there are more than 5,000 m2. Is the government really going to have to run around with megaphones inside the stores to get in touch with your customers? You think you're gonna wear GPS? What has been thought about at all because it flies something? And it is not reason that can explain it in relation to what must of course be the most important thing. I assume that this is also something that the government in any case shares with the Danish People's Party. What is at stake here is to prevent further infected people and to contain the places where they are infected. Prevention and containment must surely be the basic things that need to be done to keep track of the pandemic, as it is in Denmark at the moment. There is nothing but to wonder that in some places you can contain 10 m2 while elsewhere you need 250 m2 and scooters. It certainly seems that it is something that is designed to meet some people's demands and then keep others neatly out. That is why, of course, I would like the Minister to reflect a little on the strange premise, as it really is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155432	I am pleased that the Danish People's Party indicates that it is important to limit the development of infection in our society, because I think we share the experience that this is the prerequisite for us to continue to open up and not to hold meetings about what we are going to shut down again. Let us rewind the time and remember that the setting that came from the task force was really about not opening those stores at all over 5,000 m2. Then a majority in the Folketing decided to say that we would like to do so anyway. But in order to keep track of the overall development of infection, the overall activity of society, it was then with rather more stringent rules on area meter requirements and time bookings, and it is simply an expression that we want to maintain epidemic control and keep the risk of infection as low as we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155516	Thank you. I just need to point out that it is 1⁄2 minutes that you have for the question now. Now it's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155522	What the Minister is asking in his answer to the question is that we must contain things, and I fully agree with that. It is not, of course, because we disagree with that approach. What is just the premise here is that you go in and look at the number of square meters per. customer and you look at the number of customers in the individual store. The two things individually do not, of course, give a picture of the level of risk of infection. It is only when you add the two things together that the number of customers and the number of square meters can be measured. That is why we in the Danish People's Party wonder that you have not made a model where you have assumed how many square meters it takes per. customer. If you have a lot of square meters in a store, there can be a lot of customers. If you have a few square meters, there may be fewer customers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155615	But there is no doubt that if you did, you would also let many more people into the very large shops at the same time, and then it is just that we have to look into each other's eyes and ask if we think that there will be the same epidemic control, the same control over the development of the infection. It is about what volume of activity we are opening up to when we reopen society. I just want to say: I don't think any of us are thinking that this should be an eternal restriction of 250 m2 We hope that as we can relax along the way, but this presupposes that we continue to control the epidemic and all the variants that are in circulation right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155657	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155658	Hope we may be able to use anywhere other than here in the Folketing. But if you start from the real world, you can see that, for example, in the world of reality. The Elgigant with their typical shops, which are less than 5,000 m2, has to be a lot of customers compared to the number of square meters. There it is 20 m2 per. customer, you assume. But if you then have a store that is 5,001 m2 it could e.g. be a BAUHAUS, where customers also come in and have to buy goods. Then there must be 250 m2 per. customer. Can the Minister clarify to me what it is like to see the risk of infection multiplied in BAUHAUS rather than in Elgigante, since these absurd, strange rules have been adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155749	I think this is just how we are at this stage, when we are reopening, that we will have to set some limits in some places, and what we had recommended from the effort group was that stores up to 5,000 m2 could open under some special restrictions. Then a majority in the Danish Parliament chose to say that they would like to be opened up over 5,000 m2 and to do so in a health-friendly way, where it does not contribute to further development of infection, then it was under specially tightened restrictions. Surely none of us believe or hope that it will last forever. We hope that this can be eased along the way, and that is why we hope that it will be possible to hope in many different places that what we have done now will keep the epidemic under control so that we can continue reopening after reopening.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155833	Then we say thank you to the working Minister for Health, and we thank Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. That was the end of Question 8. We move on to Question 9, which has been addressed to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155854	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister consider it appropriate that the Danish requirements and restrictions for travellers to and from Bornholm do not coincide with the restrictions negotiated by the Danish Government with the Swedish Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303155911	First of all, thank you very much for the question. For the sake of good order, I have already mentioned this in my reply to Article 20, S 237, which has also been tabled by Mr S. 237. Peter Juel-Jensen that neither I nor the Danish Government have negotiated an agreement with the Swedish Government. The Danish Government, on the other hand, has expressed a number of wishes for the Swedish restrictions, which the Swedish Government has only partially accepted. It's just to get formalities in place. But that shouldn't change the fact that I actually understand it, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen asks. After all, it is the Swedish Parliament that passes the Swedish laws, and the Folketing that passes the Danish laws. The Order on test requirements issued on journeys to and from Bornholm has been issued under the Epidemic Act, and I am fully aware that, of course, Swedish restrictions must also be observed in this context when travelling via Sweden to or from Bornholm. Since the Danish Government has no influence on Swedish restrictions, it would be inappropriate for the Danish Government alone to allow Danish restrictions to depend on the restrictions which the Swedish Government may decide to impose. This would, of course, give rise to a difference in how one would do here in relation to the rest of Denmark. Therefore, the preparation of the Danish test requirements for trips to and from Bornholm will be based on what is otherwise the case in Danish society. That's where the difference can arise. And I am aware that among other things. is something with age requirements; there is the question of how long before the test should be taken, and something like that. There is therefore a slight difference between the Danish and Swedish requirements.I agree with that, but it would also be strange if we had to have some other rules that apply to travel to and from Bornholm than those that apply to the rest of Danish society. So it follows from the epidemic law, and that is among other things. This whole 72-hour thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160120	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160121	Thank you for your answer. When I ask the question, it is also because I think it has actually emerged that a great many people have taken credit for the fact that the opportunities to travel through Sweden in transit have now been agreed with the Swedish Parliament. It is usually said that a victory has many fathers, but that a defeat has none. So a lot of people were out to take credit for the fact that they had now really put the thumb screws on to the Swedes. That is why I assumed that one would, of course, have been in a debate or, at least, in a dialogue with them, but I understand that has not been the case. It has been the Swedish Government alone that has set the premises. When I ask the question, it is because one can actually face the situation that one can get through Sweden, but then later be rejected if one tries to jump on the Bornholm line in Ystad. It can happen if you, for example, do it. is less than 18 years of age. If you are 17 years old, you can get into a bus in Copenhagen and get all the way into Sweden and through Sweden, but when you go on the ferry in Ystad, you have to be able to show that you are over 18 years old. You can't if you're 17 years old. So you can risk beaching in Ystad. What should we do in such a case, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160239	I would like to start by saying that I do not quite experience the fact that for a few months I have been trying to take credit for something that concerns Bornholm. I have tried to do what I could to get an ear tone in Sweden and the Swedish Government, and have also experienced that very many critical questions have naturally been asked along the way. We have fought to the best of our ability to try to get the Swedes to listen. At least that's the experience I've had of it. In relation to the situation around the buses, it is fortunate that our carriers are also very good at informing customers about the guidelines that apply. I also have the expectation that this will also apply to bus operators, in other words, that they will do everything they can to ensure that customers know what rules apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160328	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160329	I am, of course, sorry to have to be so bottomless and skinless honest with the Minister, because I also know the Minister well enough to know that the Minister does not at least dress up with borrowed feathers, and there is of course some rye bread work behind that. But there are many others who have been out to take credit for something that you may not have lot and share in. But we just have a challenge, because we should like to go where no one is going to be beach where no one was now Left not in the last opening here, unfortunately; we were asked to leave the negotiations. But forward-looking, when we are going to open next time, it is also important for the Bornholm jobs and tourism that there are clear and unambiguous requirements and restrictions that are easy to communicate. How do we resolve this together?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160412	Well, I agree that it should be as easy to understand as possible. And I'm actually a little thrilled that in some way by way of fate, it has succeeded, so that what's been a really big ugly thing for a long time and has been really messed up for Bornholmers and others who had to travel to and from Bornholm does because Bornholm has such a low pressure of infection that it has now become that the world is in fact turned a little upside down. It is almost such a positive version of Converselylev, where Bornholm has now become our guiding star and model where we try all the things that we hope for. We all look to the rock island and hope that in the rest of Denmark we can also come to the hairdresser at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160458	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160459	I can see from the Minister's hair and my own that we haven't been to the hairdresser yet, but we have a fine hairdo. But Minister, if next time we have to open up, we have to get Bornholm on track and ensure that it will be easy to get to and from the island, even when it comes to the restrictions, then we must consider and perhaps also involve the Swedes, in that they have a greater understanding that the Danish and Swedish restrictions will be established in cooperation so that it will be easy to travel in transit, or easier Is the Minister sometimes in dialogue to challenge the Swedes on these restrictions? The best thing would have been for them to fall away altogether, but is there still a dialogue between the Minister's Ministry and the Swedish Parliament to ensure that you can get in transit?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160551	I have announced to my Swedish colleague that it would probably be wise for us to meet when the covid is over and try to find more permanent solutions to what we will do another time if we find ourselves in a situation where restrictions have to be imposed for some reason. Because what we have had to be true is that there is not a clearly defined readiness to respond to what we then do. I also think it would be wise for us to take it the day that corona is over and then we can physically sit together at a table. However,
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160629	Then we thank you for the debate on Question No. 9. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 10, which is also addressed to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160639	Here you go, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160641	Thank you. Is the government considering extending the scheme of social discounts for domestic air travellers year out?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160651	Thank you for that question too. The Government, the Left, the author's own party... The Conservative People's Party and the Radical Left have agreed to extend the system of price discounts to selected passenger groups on domestic flights to Bornholm and Sønderborg. And with the agreement it was also agreed to wait for the start-up of the scheme until it is in line with the authorities' recommendations on travel activities across the country. At present, there is still a need to maintain a number of restrictions in order to limit the spread of infection. Citizens are still encouraged to minimise social contact as far as possible, to work at home and to be tested regularly if they go to work or, for example, use public transport. Then there is a very special situation that we have just turned around about Bornholm, where this particular requirement for testing 72 hours before boarding either on an aircraft or a ferry has been introduced. And it is also to ensure that the very low pressure of infection that is on Bornholm is ensured in the best possible way during the period that is right now. That is why I do not think it appropriate to set up a system to encourage people to fly right now. I also think it is difficult for the moment with the knowledge we have today to look into the future and say exactly when the right time is to start this scheme up. What I can assure the questioner, however, is that I am also going to involve the author's party and that I intend to involve the Contact Council for Bornholm in this matter. I know that this has been discussed, but in view of recent developments, it may also be that there is a need to review it on the part of the Council. So this is something that we are going to follow closely, and it is also something that we are going to discuss with the parties behind the agreement, in fact, on Friday of this week.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160903	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303160904	Thank you for your answer. Now the Minister referred to the Traffic Contact Council, and at the last Transport Contact Council we had just a status from DAT, which operates on Bornholm. It could be said that it had, of course, helped to ensure a certain regularity, that you had these special groups that could travel at a reduced price, and that it had helped to ensure that the Bornholmers had more departures to choose from, and this is both a good thing for the Bornholm commuters, of which we actually have quite a lot, also on a daily basis, but also for the Bornholm patients, in that you are part of the Capital Region. That is why it is incredibly important that there is a sufficient quantity of airplanes, precisely to ensure that we also have proper transport links that way. So, of course, I welcome the fact that the Minister has taken the initiative for a new meeting on the next Friday, and that it may also be looked at very favourably that on Bornholm that part could be opened up further precisely to ensure that all Bornholmers had better availability of aircraft. But does the Minister not believe that a flight to an island community such as Bornholm can help to hold hands under the whole of the Bornholm community?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161019	There are some very good perspectives in this. I think it is fair to say that there is also a desire to generate extra passengers, that is, at a time when we are able to travel. And this includes certain groups of people, for example. pensioners who must also be assumed to be a type of passenger who will, in particular, start traveling when more people have been vaccinated. I should also like to say, for the sake of good order, that the meeting was actually convened on Friday as a result of the fact that the author's party wanted the meeting to be held; I just have to say that fairly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161102	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161104	Thank you. This scheme, which gives some social discounts to a few selected groups, basically has nothing to do with corona. It is a system that has always been possible. Now that we can see here that it can be very handy in holding hands under some airlines, but also under some transport conditions, which are important to ensure growth and employment, what does the Minister think about the fact that, on the other side of this pandemic, there are still some discounts that allow people who live in island communities to have a relatively good chance of getting back and forth, also to visit a hospital with a high level of expertise that one might not be able to offer locally, in that we have lumped all the experts together around the large university hospitals, but also to give commuters and business some opportunities? Is that something you want to look at afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161202	In the short term, it can be said that the aim of the social rebate package is to get aviation, domestic aviation, back on its wings, literally, that it should simply help to create more traffic. And it is clear that right now, no one wants more traffic and certainly not to Bornholm than is most necessary, because we have to try to limit the infection. But when we get further forward and society opens up more, it makes real sense to do this. And then I think we should assess the situation at that time, in other words, in terms of the reality of both aviation and transport at all. I do not think that any of us today can assess how much the need becomes, how many people are really going to travel, i.e. whether more or less it can go both ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161254	Thank you. Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161257	Then I have one last question. We looked up to Christmas that SAS offered the flight of Bornholm on a few and attractive flights, and this helped to remove some of the economic foundations that must secure the Bornholmers' aircraft. But SAS does not fly when it is not economically attractive. What does the Minister think of a partly state-owned company that skims the cream of a few flights and then forgets about the flight route when the small island community needs them later?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161332	I mean, who serves Bornholm is about free competition. There is no concession, and when there is no corona, it must be said that Bornholm is a rather attractive destination, especially in the summer, where it is not only DAT that operates Bornholm, but also other airlines. DAT also flies to other destinations in the summer, but also a company that Alsie Express flies to Bornholm, I know. So the fact that there is competition at a destination can always only be and this must also be the starting point for a liberal politician to benefit citizens and customers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161416	Thank you. That was the end of Question 10, and we thank Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left. We move on to Question 11, which has been put to the Minister for Transport by Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161444	Thank you for that, President, and we will continue with the flights: does the Minister believe that the aviation industry has received reasonable and sufficient help in connection with the covid-19 based on the recent catastrophic figures, which illustrate that the industry is extremely pressured and among those with the greatest decline by 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161504	Thank you for that question. In fact, I was a little jealous of seeing the thoroughness with which it previously asks, Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, cleaned the furniture. That was very impressive to see. Our aviation industry, as the questioner rightly says, is really hit hard. There are also many other parts of our business community that are, but they are really hard hit by the covid-19, and that is also why it has been decided in the Folketing broadly politically to extend a wide safety net to business, and with regard to the broad safety net, that is to say the general aid packages, it is also the case that airlines are covered by it. We've made an agreement on that here in the Folketing. This is not my area, because it is the Ministry of Business, but as I have been informed and understood, the industry has welcomed the general aid packages, and the industry should have received an undertaking in mid-February to receive compensation for a total of 1.6 billion. kr. spread over just over 100 companies. In 2020, we then agreed on an aviation package for a total of 259 million. kr. The aviation package was implemented at a time when we actually had a common hope that aviation could gradually be helped to get started again. But one must also be true with the knowledge that we have today that it was actually too early it was in the summer that we made that agreement because since then there have been new waves. However, the aviation package provided some much-needed help to the smaller players in the industry in particular, among others. smaller regional airports, and airlines with a Danish operating licence could apply for support for some of their wage costs. In addition, we have, as I have just said, Mr President. Peter Juel-Jensen agreed to extend the system of price rebates. The latter system has not been set in motion yet, as it has been agreed that it should start when the recommendations of the authorities say that we can fly a little more than we do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161720	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161721	Yes, as the Minister also said in the answer here, the airport industry is among the sectors that bleed the allerallerlerst. There have been figures here lately which, I think, can cause us all to be really worried. In addition to that, as I understand it, it is in that way that more of these operators are, in fact, more or less forced to continue to have employees in order not to lose their certificates, but in that way they will not be paid compensation for these employees. That's one of them. such things as air traffic controllers and safety managers, etc., as they also have to maintain in the company. This may also lead me to ask whether the Minister will somehow try to see whether there is something here that we need to look into, in other words, in relation to the aid packages and the way it is screwed up. Is there any way to turn some screws in a better way than to secure them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161834	Mrs Anni Matthiesen is actually talking about something really relevant here. We have a meeting on it on Friday, by the way, with the parties behind the aviation agreement. Last year we had the opportunity to apply for the special AOCs, as it says, and then the companies applied for a total aid of 18 million. kr. and also got that support, and I would like to look at whether we can cover the small corner. It is clear that compared to the 1.6 billion. kr., which has been approved by the industry from 15 February until the end of which the packages are due to expire, in April there may be additional support. However, we would like to take a closer look at the small corner of the AOCs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161925	Thank you. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303161926	Yes, because it can be said that right now it is about 10,000 positions in the aviation industry that are already gone. I think most of us have experienced what it's like to get to airports right now, when it's a sad experience, where it's limited with both passengers and for that matter employees too, and it's actually feared that perhaps even 15,000 more people are in danger of losing their jobs. I am thinking: does the Minister have any thoughts as to whether there are any concrete steps to keep his hand in this situation, where there is a danger that so many people may also end up in the unemployment queue?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162008	Yes, there are two very important aid packages at stake, first and foremost the aid package on wage compensation, on which we have broadly agreed here in the Folketing, and then the agreement on fixed costs. As I said, it has for the time being provided aid of 1.6 billion. kr. in the field of air transport and with the expectation that more will probably also be sought, so that the aid packages will be due to expire in April, on which we have also agreed here in the Folketing. But we have to wait and see how the crisis is going to develop. As long as the aid packages are there, there is a very massive safety net under all kinds of companies in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162052	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162052-2	However, is it not also true that the last package of aid, that is to say the aviation package by 2020, actually provided a balance, so that we did not actually manage to spend all the money in the aid package there? And could you imagine that, rather than just going back into the treasury, they will somehow get back into play in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162125	Well, it wasn't a help package, but it was a reboot package that was made. The aid packages are a separate process in which 1.6 billion have been allocated for the time being. kr. The 259 million. kr. was a reboot package, and we must say that was too early. There were some of the schemes on which much was drawn, and others less. But it was also a clear premise that it was extraordinary money that was only in 2020, and then there was a wish, among other things. from the party of the questioner, also to make social security schemes into 2021, extraordinary 2021 funds were allocated to it separately. So you have to come and ask for new money if you want money to be allocated to this in 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162214	Thank you. That was the end of Question 11. Question 12 is also put to the Minister for Transport by Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162220	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162223	Does the Minister intend to call for negotiations on a new aviation aid package to hold hands under an industry that is under heavy pressure and is expected to be affected by the consequences of the covid-19... for several years to come?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162236	Thank you for the question. After all, with the aviation package made in the summer of 2020, it was the ambition that aviation could be helped gradually again. In other words, it was a restart package and not a help package. The schemes introduced under the Ministry of Business, that is to say the general aid packages, are real aid packages. What was intended with the aviation package was that it should help the industry get back on its wings again. Well, that's too soon. So there were also some things that were adjusted so that there could simply be a drain of money. The whole world is now in red, understood in the sense that everyone is advised not to travel to the whole world. Travel activity by 2020 was very limited, and we must also say that travel activity at the beginning of 2021 has been very, very limited. We have even had some challenges with the fact that there have been Danes, it has nevertheless chosen to travel out into the world, and we have had to impose some special restrictions so that we can be sure that when they return, they will be tested and not spread mutations of coronavirus in Danish society. We're in every possible way challenged in relation to this traveling business. If we are to create a new aviation package that the questioner is asking about, it must be at least at a time when conditions are much more favourable for a restart, because that must be what is intended if so. It will then also be in a situation where general aid packages do not work anymore. And I have to say that at least we are not yet where we can say that there are favourable conditions. I am in continuous dialogue with the aviation industry and, of course, I have also taken note of the wishes of the aviation industry, but fortunately we still have the broad safety net, which we have just discussed on the last issue, in the form of aid packages and compensation for wages. Fortunately, the aviation industry benefits from this as long as the situation is as closed as it is at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162450	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162451	Whether we call it air transport packages or aid packages or reboot packages, or whatever we call them, what I hear is that the aviation industry simply needs financial help here and now. They are in a situation where a great many people are simply nervous about going bankrupt. I know they also benefit from those aid packages, but it just doesn't seem as if that's enough. Fortunately, there is now a meeting because the Left has asked that we should like to have a meeting, and that is now here on Friday. But will the Minister, on Friday, also be asking to discuss whether there is a need for financial aid here and now for the aviation industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162547	The Left wanted to have a status on the implementation of air transport packages on Friday, and also to have a status on the financial compensation that the aviation industry would otherwise receive. That is also why I know, as I have had to ask in the Ministry of Industry, that 100 companies have been granted aid of 1.6 billion for the time being. kr. It's not a change, is it? And the probability that additional aid will be granted is quite high, for this is calculated per. 15 February, and the aid packages will continue into April. And then there's a little corner...
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162626	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162627	I also believe that we can agree on this, at least I hope that a new aviation restart package will also be needed when we get there. For it was perhaps actually a little too early, as the Minister himself said, it was granted, in 2020. Because there you had hoped you'd get back on your wings. Then you're still not gone. So is it the case that financial aid must be negotiated with the Minister for Transport, or will it possibly take place at the Minister for Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162704-2	So, the general aid packages are being negotiated in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Business. I have also indicated earlier today that we are looking at the small corner of what is called AOCs. It is fixed labour costs that are for staff who cannot simply be returned home. We have covered this under the restart package in 2020. A total of 18 million was applied for. kr., and it was also granted, and the critical staff we will have to discuss further at Friday's meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162739	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162740	Well, I actually think I'd like to end by thanking you for having a meeting on Friday. I have also been informed of this by those who will also be taking part on the Left side in the meeting on Friday. And I hope that, across parties, we also have an interest in the survival of the aviation industry. I think we all need that so that they can get back on their feet quickly. And otherwise it may be necessary to call the Minister either for a consultation or for that matter also to ask the Minister more questions. But I hope that the Minister will also make a huge effort on Friday to find solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162819	At any rate, it can be said that what will be the most important thing is to ensure that in the future Denmark also has a central hub function a la what we know from Kastrup Airport, so that we also become a key player in global travel activity. And I think we have to admit that it is hardly possible to secure that by providing backup packages or reboot packages alone. There's gonna be something else and more, like... is about international cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162851	We thank the Minister for Transport and Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. The next question, Question No 1, by Mr Vandemeulebroucke: 13 is for the Minister of Education and Research, and that is what Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162911	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162914	Thank you. Is the Minister going to address the problem that some schools use agents to recruit foreign students to Danish schools because schools receive grants per year? student, and what will the Minister do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303162930	Thank you for the question. Yeah, the minister is planning on doing that. At the moment, we are in the process of digging up the extent of this actually taking place. Because there should be no doubt that it is crazy that we have educational institutions that use tax dollars on the kind of marketing that recruits EU students who are not in a position to follow the teaching. This seems to be the case, at least in the case that has been raised, and it must be stopped. But we must also learn more about whether it is something that is going on elsewhere or whether it is a single swallow. I mean, these institutions are set in the world to solve an important social task, and of course I expect them to do so. So it's a complete misunderstanding if there's someone out there thinking that this is going to be a business where you can use this method to just padded the economy by admitting some EU students who are poorly qualified. So, it should not be our education policy in Denmark, and that is why we have initially received a statement from UCL, and there are some follow-up questions to it, in relation to the fact that it has not been fully explained, and we are in the process of doing so. But we are also, as I said before, in the process of asking wider questions and saying: that is what came out on UCL ^ what actually happens on the other courses out there? That is why we have asked them to explain their use of agents all over the field, and I am, of course, awaiting that as a minister. But I will not deny that if something comes out that calls for further action, I am certainly ready for it. It may be that there is a need to tighten up the rules on some of these parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163143	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163144	Thank you for your answer and thank you for your commitment to it. The reason for this is, of course, that there is a censor who last year experienced the following, as she also described in the press and in a letter to the Minister and the rapporteurs: "The first Spanish student had obviously not read up at all for the exam; he simply could nothing. He apologized for his lack of English, but even though he had graduated in Spanish, it had not improved. During the vote, we discussed whether it was a 00 or a 3. Then the next Spanish student came in and the same thing happened. • Osv. etc. When I'm interested in this, it's also about getting the minister's opinion on using agents. I can see in the report from UCL that it is written that the agent markets UCL Business Academy and Professionhøjskole's education through relevant channels. It is not a question of making an application, but of marketing. I do not know whether the Minister can explain the difference because, as I see it here, this is about luring foreign students to Denmark and taking an education, and is it a traffic that we want to support?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163249	I agree. That raises two questions. One is: What is being used by educational crowns on marketing in this country? The second is: What is really the function and point of having full education in English, and what is it used as, also slightly in a broader social perspective? I am sceptical about how the answers to both questions come out in some contexts when you look across the country, and I think that we should, to a large extent, take a political view of it. Now that we get these statements in and see how this is actually being used, are we going to knock down on the single swallow, or are we just going to structuralally go in and make some moves and tighten up some rules in relation to this? I have not concluded, because I do not have the full picture yet, but I would at least like to signal today to the questioner that there is nothing that will be rejected on my table until we discuss this in depth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163342	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163343	Well, then, of course, the possibilities are open for something to happen. As the Minister also knows, we have a discussion in the time when I am at least waiting for the Minister to convene a new meeting in relation to keeping the framework for migrant workers in Europe, and this is, of course, a group that comes under it. So in this context, I just have to ask the Minister whether the Minister thinks it may be the responsibility of the educational institution to have agents in Europe at all to tell young Europeans about Danish education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163417	I should not be able to deny that in individual cases there can be a social benefit in recruiting this very young person, but I would like to make it clear that, above all, I do not think that our training money should go to this kind of marketing or to other massive marketing, especially when we have at the same time a discussion on English-language education and the extent of the educational obligation we promise on behalf of the rest of Europe, which, of course, exceeds what we have decided together that we think we are reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163448	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163449	But I don't think I hear a clear answer except that you just wanted some agents out there to get the right ones to come. In the Danish People's Party we wanted to be allowed to decide in Denmark which young people we wanted to invite up here for an education, and then we could have that talk. However, in relation to the talk we have about marketing at home, is it even something that an institution spends money on, that is to say, marketing itself to young people in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163516	When I do not come to a firm conclusion on this matter, it is because I have asked for a statement from a large number of our institutions which I think I owe it to me to wait for. However, I would like to say that I am critical of the use of agents, because I think it is a strange way of spending both education money but also of taking advantage of the possibility of actually having English-language courses in Denmark. I think there is something quite wrong both in this matter, but also in the pattern at all, if that is something we look at on a broader level, and that is why it is something we need to talk about further together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163548	Thank you. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European The next is also addressed to the Minister for Education and Research by Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163559	Thank you. How will the Minister follow up the criticism of the Innovation Fund by the Danish Education and Research Authority, and what will the Minister do to ensure that similar cases of non-discrimination do not happen again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163612	Thank you for the question. The Danish Training and Research Authority has completed an oversight case on the Innovation Fund's urgent handling of covid-19-related applications in March 2020 as well as the issue of inability in three specific cases. Against this background, the Board of Directors is critical of the Innovation Fund. It is clear that mistakes have been made. I take the Board's criticism of the fund seriously. The Innovation Fund does the same. Let me therefore make it clear that the new management of the Innovation Fund is a major and important task in ensuring that we can continue to have confidence in the performance of the fund. The Innovation Fund has announced that a number of concrete initiatives have been launched to strengthen the case and processes of the Fund. The Innovation Fund will also ask the DA to assess whether further initiatives are needed on the basis of the Board's supervisory opinion, and I think that is wise. I have also agreed with the Danish Education and Research Authority that in the coming period and as part of the ongoing supervision of the fund, they will have increased focus on the fact that the conditions found to be critical by the Danish authorities will be corrected. It is against this background that I have a clear expectation that the critical conditions will be corrected. The Innovation Fund translates very large public sums. The questioner and I are all involved in deciding on them, among other things. It is essential that this should be done in an objective and sound manner every year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163740	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163741	We fully agree that it is essential that this should be done in a proper and responsible manner, also because we are, after all, providing a great deal of money that is distributed through the Innovation Fund. Tomorrow we will have to stand in this Chamber and discuss the legal basis for the Innovation Fund, which is why it is, of course, very important that we have a complete overview of whether we can have confidence in the fund in which we put so much money. I can also read in Berlingske that in many ways there are criticisms: "Two laid off employees of the Innovation Fund warned the management in clear terms about illegal discrimination. In an email to the then chief lawyer, Anne-Marie Levy Rasmussen dismissed the concern about breaches of law and explained that the urgent procedure was approved by the supervisory authority and the entire board of directors. There was just one problem. In other words, the Authority has never approved the emergency procedure, says the statement, which concludes that there was a stake in the chief lawyer's concern. Does it not concern the Minister that we seem to have misinformation from the management of the Innovation Fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163846	I have read this carefully in relation to what kind of criticism is being raised by the fund. It is clear that when doubts arise as to whether things are going on according to the rules, we have an entire system that initiates an investigation and with the possibility of getting the DA involved. That is what we have been using, and I think it is a good thing that this process has been there. I also believe that management has a very important task to do in the future to ensure that we do not experience these things again. The fund is a very important force in the Danish research landscape, which pays out a great deal of money, and therefore it is of course also something where there has to be a great deal of attention that it takes place according to the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163934	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303163935	Yes, and that is why I also think that some of what we need to discuss, for example. in relation to the new legislation that we are going to adopt tomorrow is the arm's length tax. In other words, how much should we leave it to the fund itself to manage what is going on and how much must we ensure that we can actually see through, in other words that there is transparency in what is going on? I will, of course, take that up tomorrow, but that is why I would still like to hear the Minister's comment on how to ensure, including in the context of the new legislation, that there will be the transparency that is necessary in order to restore confidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164015	However, precisely the discussion that the questioner and I have had in company with the other rapporteurs on the arm's length principle in relation to the management of this here points precisely to the fact that we must have a good political attitude to this and that we must also have a great political insight into how things are going. And both of them contribute the bill to which we will have to discuss tomorrow, which is why I think it is wise and good that we have jointly decided on this with each other. But that does not change the fact that the rules that are so now have to be observed, and that is one of them. what this supervisory matter also points back to, and that is the task that the fund is now facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164059	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164100	That is precisely why I am asking the Minister today what the Minister is going to do in concrete terms, so that we can have confidence in it, not just us, but also, to a large extent, the entire research environment, which, of course, receives funds and must of course have confidence that when the funds are distributed, they will also be distributed in the right way. So again, what is it that the Minister is going to tell us and the world of research that this is going to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164131	But, of course, it is ultimately also my responsibility as minister, especially when I put up with the trust of you rapporteurs from the rapporteur group to actually go in and change the legal basis for some of these things. Then it is also a question of keeping things under control. Every year, when we are negotiating money for the Innovation Fund for the benefit of research in Denmark, things have to be sorted out. And that is why I am pleased that we have both had supervision, but that the Innovation Fund will also ask the Attorney General for assistance, in relation to whether further action should be taken, so that there are eyes on the ball so that we do not see it here in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164214	Then we thank the Minister for Education and Research and Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. And that is Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 15 is addressed to the Minister for Business by Mrs Heidi Bank from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164229	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164232	Why does the Minister think that Christiania's business and cultural life should have a covid-19 help package in the form of a rent reduction or reimbursement, cf. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164252	Thank you for the question. Perhaps I should say at the outset, as the questioner also knows, that the government has proposed that the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing answer the question, since the action in question, as well as the Fladaden Christiania, is below his area of responsibility. The Ministry of Home Affairs and Home Affairs informs us that the state as a landlord to the Fonden Fladaden Christiania has an ongoing dialogue on the rental relationship, including rent payments. The Fladaden Christiania Foundation, as well as the companies and cultural institutions that rent the land, find it difficult to live up to their rent commitments at this time. This challenge is being resolved within the General Grant of the Danish Building Agency, and the Fund Fladaden Christiania has previously informed the Ministry of Transport and Housing that the special Community structure at Christiania involves the joint payment of many of the companies' costs and that the costs of rent, consumption and operation cannot therefore be directly attributed to the individual company or cultural institution. In such cases, with joint payments, companies and cultural institutions have not been able to receive compensation from the aid packages and thus have not been able to contribute to the fund. To the extent that companies and cultural institutions in Christiania have received compensation from the aid packages, I would like to stress that the aid packages apply to the principle of not being overcompensated. Among other things, compensation cannot be paid twice for the same cost. If, for example, an entity: has received compensation from the scheme in the aid packages that we have for fixed costs and then later receive a rent reduction as provided for in the act referred to, the amount of compensation must therefore be offset against the same cost, so that the same cost is not covered twice. The discount will then, if necessary, be made by the Danish Business Administration at the end of the settlement, and here the beneficiary must report the facts during the compensation period in order to determine the compensation amount definitively and correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164450	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164451	Thank you for that, and thank you for this clarification to the end from the Minister, because that is exactly what this is all about. It is about aid packages and about it being fair and reasonable and, above all, transparency, in relation to who is entitled and who is not. Therefore, it seems quite wrong that the government chooses to push in an aid package through the back door to Christiania at a time when so many self-employed people throughout Denmark have had to start debts to keep the wheels running. After all, it is written in black and white in the record: "The Foundation states that Christiania's business and cultural life as a result of COVID-19 is economically pressured in the same way as business and cultural life in the rest of Denmark. The Community of Christiania therefore has difficulty in paying rent to the foundation, which subsequently has difficulty in paying rent to the state. • Therefore, the fund proposes that they should receive subsidies in the form of a reduction in rent, i.e. an aid package. Does the Minister really think that this is a proper way of treating the rest of Denmark's business and cultural life?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164558	After all, I have the general approach that we need good help packages for our business and cultural life in Denmark. We should not have the opportunity to cover costs twice, as I also found occasion to clarify in my introduction here. But I do think that in this case, when I understand that with the Danish Building Agency there has been a regular dialogue with the Fedaden Christiania Foundation on the terms of their agreement with the state, the state is in fact also acting as a decent landlord, which I think we should and should do in the rest of the business community, namely relate to the situation and see how we can help us get through the Corona crisis. I think that's what many landlords have done to their tenants, and that's what the Building Agency and the state are doing in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164638	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164639	Thank you again. I have to say that I am surprised that the Minister can say that we must ensure that there is no overcompensation and that we should not be able to get the payment twice, because the reality is that this is not in order. It is the case that we have an industry and a cultural life today, which has to go through a fairly precise application procedure when they need these aid packages. They have to pay accountants to help them; there's a lot about this and a lot of uncertainty about it. They must borrow from the bank, or they may at least be in a situation where they may borrow from the bank. And here you just open the back door and make a special help package, because that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164724	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164725	About the cost of accountants etc. We have done so together, and we have done so to ensure that part of the costs are covered, because this is a very important part of getting good protection for the money we are spending here in our aid package system. However, I would like to stress once again that if you are a company or cultural institution in Christiania and get a rent reduction here as a result of the action now being taken by the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, and at the same time you have got fixed costs in the form of rent in the aid packages, then I would say that you cannot and there should not be double compensation. There will be, as I also said in my speech, a final settlement in relation to the Danish Business Administration, where you will go in and address these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164815	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164815-2	I just have to say that it is a good thing if that is the case, but it is by no means clear from the act that it is there that one intends to do. It says in black and white that out of a rent of 6.7 million. kr. will be granted a rent reduction of 3 million. kr., and based on the months involved, it is a matter of giving just barely 50 per cent. in rent reduction. So I find it very difficult to face the rest of Danish business and cultural life here when the government puts a line that does not even take this kind up in the Committee on Business and Culture or in the Committee on Culture. It simply comes through as an act, a little bit behind it, and this is a package of help that no longer exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164901	We do not entirely agree with this, because what has happened in this situation is that the Danish Building Agency has had a very usual dialogue with the foundation about the conditions that apply to the rent, and then, in the specific situation, as I think many other landlords do in the private sector too, we have said how we can help our tenants through, so we have had a dialogue about it. However, I think it is important that we have the dialogue here and that we clarify the conditions of not being able to get over-compensation, and I can only state what I have done here, and if questions are asked about the file, I am sure that the answer will also be in line with what I have said here, so that it is clear if you have to take that decision in the Committee on Finance on the file. It is certainly my attempt to identify what the situation should be like.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303164946	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Industry and thank you to Mrs Heidi Bank, Left. Then we move on to the next question, which is No. 16 to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165001	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165004	Would the Minister agree that it was a mistake to grant the right of birth to the young man who was recently sentenced to 12 years in prison for having killed a 31-year-old family father with four stabs on the left of his upper body and who, in 2001, was given the right of birth to his father, and does the Minister regret, on behalf of his party, the fact that votes were cast to grant such a family citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165032	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying in general terms that, like the questioner, I find it extremely frustrating to read and hear in the media about people who have acquired Danish citizenship and who subsequently commit serious crime. It goes without saying that I cannot comment on the specific case, but I would like to say in general terms that it is difficult to demand from the Folketing that they know whether the 10-11-year-old boys and girls on the draft legislation on the granting of citizenship will commit serious crime 20 years later. The granting of citizenship to foreigners is, of course, a declaration of trust from our society, and if you have acquired Danish citizenship, you must of course behave properly. We have also come up with a proposal from the current government, in which we propose, in particular, to tighten up on people who have committed crime. Our proposal is that, in future, an applicant sentenced to unconditional or conditional imprisonment should be excluded from being admitted to a bill on the granting of citizenship, and in these cases only Danish citizenship should be obtained after it has been submitted to what is called the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs. The proposed tightening-up will help to emphasise that action has consequences and that criminals are, as a starting point, excluded from obtaining Danish citizenship. In addition, if you are convicted of criminal matters in Denmark, it is also the case today that you can get your citizenship renounced by judgment if you are convicted of violations of Chapter 12 or 13 of the Criminal Code, among others. terrorism. The Government will table a bill according to which certain forms of serious gang crime which seriously harm Denmark's vital interests may also lead to the disqualification of citizenship by judgment. We also have further initiatives on the way. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165235	It's not quite over yet. Morten Messerschmidt has the floor, and then we go back to the Minister of Integration. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165244	The minister finds it frustrating. That's the expression he uses. I must admit that I am not convinced that the feeling of the family that has lost their father is, in other words, frustrating. It is frustrating if you miss the bus, if you are going to an important meeting, or it would be frustrating to lose a vote or something like that, but this is frustrating what it is like to use? What we are talking about here is not just Mohamad Youssef Khalil, who is the perpetrator in the specific case, but indeed a lot of people from the Middle East who, through the years, thanks to the party represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration, have come to Denmark and commit atrocities: 4 stabs in the upper body with direct penetration of the heart, with death as a result, because reckless Social Democrats and Left and Conservatives have granted citizenship. Frustrating is the expression used by the Minister. I can almost only regard it as an insult to those who suffer the great loss and to those whose country has thus been neglected. The Danish People's Party alone voted no back in 2001, when Mr. Khalil was given citizenship in Denmark as a secondary to his father, who is also called Jihad Khalil; it is available information. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration does not need to add that. Frustrating? In other words, does the Minister not consider it possible to find a slightly stronger expression and, in this context, to consider whether, on behalf of his party, as I ask, he does not regret and deplore the way in which the Social Democrats have behaved?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165444-2	I do not think it is right to say that the Members of Parliament who voted in favour of the specific legislative proposal 20 years ago should now be blamed for the fact that 20 years later, one of the 10-11-year-olds who have joined the party involved committed serious crime. You can't blame these people for that. The Danish People's Party has also voted in favour of the bill on the communication of citizenship. What if some of those who have been on that bill later commit crime? Does the Danish People's Party then bear a share of responsibility for the crime being committed? I mean, the people who commit these terrible crimes have to answer for them themselves. Then we have a responsibility to ensure that there are not too many new people here, whom we are historically aware of will be huge integration challenges, including crime. I completely agree with that. But I do not think it is right to say that it is the fault of those Members of Parliament that has happened here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165535	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165536	That's a pity to listen to. Of course, each member of parliament bears a responsibility for the arrangements he or she makes. And the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration knows very well what the distribution of roles over the years has been like. In 2001 etc. and the times before it was the case that the Social Democrats fought against any tightening. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen stood there and called it non-student, that is, what we in the Danish People's Party did. What we, on the other hand, were forced to do if we wanted to tighten things up was, under protest, to vote in favour of those laws as well. I would like to ask again: does not the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, in the light of this exchange, have any reason to revise his feeling that this is only frustrating?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165616-2	I would like to read again what I said: I think that is the feeling I have when I read in the newspapers that people commit violent crimes in Danish society after having been granted Danish citizenship, even if they have had it as a child. Then I find it incredibly frustrating to read about, because it tells me something about people who have been awarded a distinguished gift of the Danish government from this Parliament Hall, then committing violent assaults on the society that has actually given them a full place in society. And, of course, we can have a controversy about the choice of words. What I think is central is paragraph 1: we must keep the influx so low that we do not create further problems for the future. And point 2: When people are actually granted citizenship today, it has to be on far tougher conditions than they were then in 2021. But I am not going to point 20 years back in time and say about the people who sat in the Folketing then that they are accomplices to something that has happened 20 years later.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165715	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165716	It would also be an ugly register of sins to get through when you think of the party to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration belongs. But let me just ask: will the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration be involved in such a forward-looking approach that if the persons who a majority in the Danish Parliament were to grant citizenship commit such offences, violence, gross violence, killing, they should have their citizenship deprived, that is, understood to mean that they only get it, conditional on living a blameless life afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165746	What we want to do, at least, and which we are also debating in these days, is that people who commit serious crime which is detrimental to Denmark's vital interests, and it may be gang crime, drug crime, it may also be other forms of crime, should be able to get it dismissed by judgment, as we already do, but that provision can be extended. We have also, in cooperation with the Danish People's Party, adopted rules that allow us administratively to disclaim foreign fighters from the State Authority; this has happened in 10 cases, and there is one more case along the way, and none of those people have entered Denmark. So it's not that we don't want to react to this. What I am reacting to is just pointing 20 years backwards in time and, like, linking it to a specific case today. I don't really think that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165834	Thank you. That was the end of Question 16. Question 17 has been put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is also asked by Mr Gundelach. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165845	Thank you, President. What is the Minister's position on the mosque building at Americasvej 19 on Vesterbro, and does the Minister agree that construction contributes to increased Islamisation of the district?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303165857	Thank you for the question. This is not the first time we have talked about mosques and the role of Islam in society, and I do not hope, nor do I believe, that it will be the last time, because this is an important debate that needs to be taken openly and directly. I also understand why new mosque buildings can cause both concern and debate, and I would like to start by saying, for the sake of good order, that I cannot go into the specific case on America's road, but as I understand it, the City of Copenhagen has given permission for a conversion and an extension to the mosque at Vesterbro with among others. new youth housing. I do not know about the plans for the rental of the specific youth housing, but I know that the City of Copenhagen has no authorising rights, but in addition my statements will be more general. This government has as its goal that we in Denmark live together across religious divisions. This also applies, of course, to residents of youth housing, and I do not think that religious affiliation should determine where young people live, on the contrary. We should not divide youth housing according to whether young people go to Friday bar or Friday prayers. We're gonna hang out with each other and share in each other's lives in the community. Integration does not happen by the isolation of certain groups, which is why the government is constantly working to combat religious parallel societies, and we are very happy to do so in cooperation with the Danish People's Party and, incidentally, all other interested parties. I would also like to say that the question put by the questioner here, including the newspaper articles on the same subject, has made me think that, like the questioner, I am going to go past Vesterbro and the American road and see what is actually going on, because I have not actually seen the construction site, and I did not actually know that it was as extensive as I can see it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170045	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170046	Normally I would recommend a trip out in reality, because I always thought that was a good idea, but from what I have heard from the Minister here today, I do not really know if it will make any difference. If the Minister's position is that we should all be allowed to be here and the Muslims should have mosques, because where else should they go, and that should happen, so that we are a large part of the same community and things like that. Then it sounds like Birte Weiss and Poul Nyrup on a bad day in the 1990s. So I don't know how much the minister will get out of a trip to the American Road. But I can at least inform the Minister that what is happening here is exactly the same as what is happening around Denmark. As in the 1980s and 1990s, when there was loose conduct, small Islamic cultural centres, water pipe clubs and such things have been approved, and then over the years a small mosque has been made in a corner room, where you have been able to meet for Friday prayers, etc., and then today you press through and make a huge mosque with minarets and all the pipes etc., and without any fifties you can do so without a local plan, for the mosque has been there for a long time. This is something we see around in several cities, as the Minister has also mentioned. We have discussed this many times and, unfortunately, will discuss it very much in the future. After all, there are a number of problems here that the Minister could tackle, also with his other colleagues in the Council. This applies, firstly, to the whole question of why the residents of Americavej and Tryjborgvej have not been very much consulted about this at all. Only the nearest ones have been informed and heard, and it seems completely crazy. Now there's going to be a mosque where there can be a thousand people, just imagine everything with minarets and Islam, and what I know, prayer calls we'll get, too, the traffic conditions, when it pours in with so many people in this little area, it's going to create a chaos on Vesterbro. But, of course, there is also the whole question of what we are going to do with all these mosques. Already today there are far more mosques in Denmark compared to the number of Muslims than there are folk churches in relation to folk church members. So what are we gonna do with all those mosques, why can't they get together in some places without minarets, without those robes, so it looks like you're standing in Islamabad. In relation to the funding, perhaps the Minister could also look a little more closely at what kind of money it is that is financing this. Some people down in Pakistan are now financing mosques in Denmark, is that particularly reassuring?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170303	To conclude, I fully agree that we have not paid enough attention to this, because there has been funding for mosque buildings for several years in Denmark. At any rate, one might well question whether it is all democratic and freedom-loving forces that have financed all mosque construction in Denmark, and that is also why I really hope that within a few days the Folketing will be third-reading and finally adopt the bill to ensure a stop to anti-democratic donations. I don't know exactly how to fund this mosque. I know that there are no municipal crowns in it, but that does not mean that there can be no money in it from anywhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170341	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170342	But can we then get an assurance from the Minister that he will investigate it? All other things being equal, the law we are now adopting on transfers from other countries must be the minister, who then also has the most obvious opportunity and mandate to investigate what kind of money goes from Islamabad to surroundings to now Vesterbro. Well, it might be nice to clarify. It might also be nice to have a commitment that you will change the rules so that you cannot, of course, do this kind of violent construction without hearing, in the broadest possible sense, those who live around the mosque, and also what kind of youth housing should be on the top floors. We have quite bad experiences around from the ghettos in other parts of Denmark with young people who frequent mosques and then suddenly end up somewhere down in Syria. Well, now there's just gonna be youth housing in the same building as this giant mosque that's gonna be built. Could we get an assurance that just the three things the Minister could grab hold of and investigate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170435	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170436	As I also said in the context of a consultation on a mosque building in Elsinore, we are, as far as the government is concerned, both the Minister for Business and myself, prepared to discuss whether the municipalities have the right tools to regulate these mosque buildings. For today it will be a discussion of plotting, but we must realise that this is about much more than the law of plans, and in this respect I think it is quite appropriate to discuss whether the neighbours will be involved in the way that one should expect if one becomes a neighbour of a religious institution. The traffic conditions, of course, are just one element of many that I know that neighbours to these institutions can have...
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170519	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170520	But then we'll have to see if this is something we can get started before this parliamentary year ends. Because it is quite right, as the Minister says, that it was an almost similar discussion that certainly was not minarets, as I remember it as in the project up in Elsinore. And it is such a completely crazy idea that there must be minarets in Denmark. I mean, it's something that belongs down in their own countries. But can we get an assurance that these things will then be started now and that we should not just wait and wait for the next mosque discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170548-2	We're not gonna wait forever. I do not dare to set a deadline, but I have already expressed this discussion here about the possibility for municipalities to regulate the construction of mosques and, of course, a legal cover-up of the possibilities of banning prayer calls, and there are a large number of other discussions that are about the same thing: the physical presence of Islam in the public space in Denmark. Our basic position is that we do not believe that freedom of religion should be abused to push its own culture down on others, for example. to call to prayer in addition to the rooftops. And now there are two minarets, I can see, at Vesterbro, and then the discussion is no less topical, and I fully agree that it also increases the pressure on the government to deliver more than talk, but also action. We are totally in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170634	We thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and thank Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti, and it was the end of Question 17. The next question is Question 19, and it is addressed to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing by Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170657	Thank you, President. In the light of last year's summer package, which came at the last minute, when the islands did not have an earthly chance to prepare for the massive influx of tourists, what experience has the Minister gained that will facilitate the flexibility of the tourist season in 2021 on the islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170717	Thank you for the question. Last summer was a very different summer in Denmark both for companies and for local communities. There were many people who might be holidaying abroad who chose to stay at home instead, and there we agreed in a broad circle of parties a summer package where one of the big things was free ferries for pedestrians and cyclists throughout July and a subsidy for cheaper tickets in August-September for selected ferries for the small islands. It was a thunderous success. Lots of people poured out to our lovely islands, especially the small islands, they had a good experience, and many probably also got their eyes open for a holiday alternative and perhaps want to come back in the coming years. Perhaps sometimes it was a little too much of the good, the influx was sometimes very large, but the alternative, that is, that there had not been a special summer package for 2020, would have been much worse. Now we all hope to succeed in creating a responsible reopening of society, and no one can predict what the situation will look like this summer, but hopefully we do not have the same need as last year to boost our Danish summer economy. Standing on top of last year's success, I am sure that the islands will be able to look forward to many tourists this year too, and I am sure that local people are ready to seize the opportunities offered.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170842	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303170844	We were in the situation last year that we had to wait all the time and that we never knew what was going to happen next month, and that is why, in the light of it, we can understand why the summer package came so late. We don't have that situation this year. This year we have to assume that we cannot travel, and that is why it is also now that it has to be planned so that what happened last year is not going to happen, namely that the café owners on Samsø were in a situation where they were completely overwhelmed. For two weeks before the summer vacation, this summer package came in, and the tourists came in, and of course they had to take the tables that they could get and sit outside and all this, and this thing about having to stand and tell people on the islands who say they are hungry, and that they want something to eat, that they have to go down to Brugsen and shop, is really, really a shame. The last thing we want in the Danish People's Party is for people to have a bad experience coming on an island, because from here we simply have not prepared it properly in time. So it is more to repeat the question to the Minister: what is the government going to do to prepare this properly so that it can be a really good experience both for the islanders, for the operators on the islands and, of course, also for the tourists?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171014	I agree with the objective of ensuring that we get as many tourists as possible out in a good way, so they want to come back. Because it can't help anything if you don't experience it. I would also like to say that at Orø there were stories that the local Orøbos were tired of the tourists. I was over there talking to more people myself. But that wasn't my picture of it. In general, people who lived there were actually really happy that there were so many. But we are in the same situation as last year in that we do not know how many people have been vaccinated and that we do not know what the infection figures are one month ahead of now. I am not an expert on this, and there are many other discussions about how it develops and how it does not develop, but what we can at least see here at the beginning of March is that we really do not know how many people have been vaccinated in a month or in two months' time, and that we do not know what the infection rates are, and that is why it is unfortunately too early for me to see what the reaction is in relation to how we should plan that summer. After all, we have a plan for how we expect it to work out, and I hope that it will last and that we will have all those people vaccinated, and it looks as well. You're not in control of the infection numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171118	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171119	We don't have control over infection rates or vaccines or anything like that at that time. What we know, however, is that it is most undoubtedly true that people are going on holiday to Italy and France and all sorts of other exotic places this summer. So what we know, what we have to assume now, is that the Danes stay in Denmark, and that is why we have to look at the islands and say that there is then a certain probability that, regardless of the summer package or not, they will come out there to the islands. There is what I want to hear from the Minister: what is the government doing now to ensure that a summer package comes out in good time so that we can be fair to the operators on the islands so that we can ensure that the young people who are going to work in the cafés know in good time that this is where they need to spend their summer holidays and that they can get an accommodation in the islands in good time, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171212	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171213	Right now we are working to ensure that the cafés on the islands and everywhere else in Denmark can at all open up the shops on the islands and in Denmark at all, because that is the situation we are in now. Once we have opened up our society again, when we look at the economic situation, we must, of course, make decisions on how to ensure that jobs are maintained locally. I myself was at a rural conference here earlier this year, and it was great to hear how you were doing at Strynø last year because of the great activity that had been, simply had built up new offers, got a café, etc. It is because the great influx had been experienced locally, and it is also expected that it will come back. So I think you are ready in some places, but of course it is clear that I agree with the questioner that in some places you also need to know in good time, and we are, of course, trying to do so in such a way that they are told in as good time as possible. But we do not yet know what the situation will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171307	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171308	No, that's what you can admire the islanders for, that is, that they are extremely flexible, that when things fall down from above, they are just really good at adjusting to it. But that is why we do not have to challenge them every time and especially not when we know that the Danes are not going to go abroad this summer. So now is the time to prepare the islanders. Has the government also considered introducing additional ferry capacity? And when can the islanders expect us to be ready with a summer package? In the Danish People's Party we are at least ready to negotiate with the Minister at all times of the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171346	I know that the Danish People's Party has a very warm heart for the small islands and that you fight for them in all the contexts where it is. And I can at least make the commitment that I will push to ensure that, as soon as we have the overview, we also have to clarify what the situation is for the small islands and for our medium-sized islands this season. Because it is clear that in the better time they know it, the more you can get out of it. But right now we are struggling to reopen society at all, and that is what lies ahead of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171414	Then we thank the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing and thank Mrs Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party. The last question, Question 20, is to the Minister for Development Cooperation, and that is what Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti,
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171437	Thank you, President. Why will the government transfer hundreds of millions of dollars to China in foreign aid when China, according to the acknowledged media Bloomberg, has spent approx. 2,000 billion. kr. to buy up businesses in Europe over the last 10 years, have had a violent growth rate over the same period, violate fundamental human rights and threaten peaceful neighbouring countries such as Japan and Taiwan?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171514	Thank you very much. Let me start by clearing out a misunderstanding. Denmark does not transfer hundreds of millions of dollars to Chinese authorities. It is about paying for advice from Danish experts, primarily in a number of green sectors where we can do something special. The experts from the Danish authorities share Danish experiences and influence China in a greener and more sustainable direction. Under the current government, we are continuing a series of strategic regulatory cooperation initiated under the bourgeois government. We are here because we cannot win the fight against climate change without China. China is the world's largest energy and coal consumer and alone accounts for 28%. of global CO2 In addition, they have an increasing coal consumption. China is demanding our expertise, which allows us to support and accelerate their green transition and make a difference to the global climate. If we do not get China into gear, we will not succeed with the 11⁄2 degree objective of the Paris Agreement, so it is simply that simple. At the same time, climate change is most damaging to the poorest and most vulnerable people in developing countries, and in this way things are inextricably linked. In addition, the transition to more renewable energy and better waste water solutions in China is important for both health and the environment. Last but not least, our regulatory cooperation in China is helping to open the door to Danish green solutions, and we should not be ashamed of that. China is a large market for Danish energy technology and the third largest market for Danish water technology. Our commitment is therefore good both for the green transition in China, for the climate, for the poorest countries and in our own interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171703	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171704	It reminds me a little of the story of the mouse and elephant, and Denmark is a mouse, but a smart mouse, a clever mouse with lots of good solutions, and China is so the elephant who just roars away, but it is also a rich elephant; it is not a development elephant. It is a nation that sits on the world, sits on Africa, sits on Asia, sits on South America and now also has its entry into Europe, and therefore it seems completely crazy that we in Denmark must support Chinese transition to the green. I am well aware that Danish companies will also benefit from it, but that is China's job. After all, it is a country that is heading towards a billion and a half people. Denmark is 5 million. We have our own to think about. I also know that development aid goes to countries such as India, India, which is a nuclear weapon country. We are spending so much money on nations that can take care of themselves in this respect, and I am therefore surprised that the government will not switch and that the money will not be spent more sensibly. After all, the minister and I have been on a tour of China in the past, and there we reached Nanjing, where you are already and have been going on a very long time, and where you cooperate with Danish companies for your own funds. So they know they have to, and they just laugh that we want to pay Danish companies to go there when they can do it themselves. So, Minister, isn't it time for the conversion so that we can spend this money a little more sensibly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171853	After all, Danish development aid is used primarily in the poorest and most fragile countries in Africa. Only a very small part has always been used in specially selected intermediate income countries as a priority in relation to the development policy strategy called the World 2030, for which I have to say to the questioner that was a very broad political support. It's like 62 percent. of the world's poorest people live in middle-income countries, which is why it still makes very good sense for aid to be given to the middle-income countries, and China and India are also included. As I said in my introduction, this is about pushing green development, and that is just what the money is used for, except a little for human rights, which benefit civil society organisations in China.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171950	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303171950-2	It is always relative what you see as small means. I now think that several hundred million kroner and more are large funds. You can get a lot of welfare for that in Denmark, and I know that the Socialists have promised a lot of welfare, so why not use them in the country instead of pouring them into a large, powerful, rich, aggressive, human rights oppressive country like China? That must make sense, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303172020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303172020-2	It is not exactly a matter of hundreds of millions of dollars. That is what I said in my reply. This is about not many millions of people working together in authority, where we pay for Danish experts who come to China to support green development, but also to support what is Danish business. So under no circumstances are we talking about hundreds of millions of dollars, as was said, and as an article showed quite misleadingly. So that is not the case. It can hardly be imagined that China would turn around after Danish technological solutions and pay for sending out Danish experts. This is what was agreed with the support of the Danish People's Party in the development policy strategy some years ago was what we wanted and also that China should be an important part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303172110	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303172111	Now it is not just China; it is India too, and it is a great deal of money that we are sending out. And yes, China would very much like to pay, the companies would like to pay, and of course they just laugh in the beard when the Danes are so naive that we pay for them. I have mentioned Nanjing myself, which is an excellent example of good cooperation with Danish companies, where solutions have been provided. So, Minister, why not spend the money at home instead of throwing it around the world into middle-income countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20210303172146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303172147	I do not understand what the Danish People's Party is asking here. The Danish People's Party itself has helped to ensure that this is a direction in which we must stick. It was, of course, the case that just before Christmas the questioner himself took part in voting in favour of a text for a debate on questions which was tabled in relation to how to deal with human rights and China. It was said directly that it was important that we continue this partnership. That is why I am very surprised that the Danish People's Party's question here today does not acknowledge the role and decision taken years ago which was confirmed as recently as December last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303172230	Then we would like to thank the Minister for Development Cooperation and thank him. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210303172247	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 4 March 2021, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
