ParlaMint-DK_20211130130002	The meeting is open. Members of the Danish Parliament Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Pernille Skipper (EL) have announced that they want to withdraw the following urgent request to the Prime Minister: will the government explain how it will resolve the obvious and acute capacity challenges in the health care system and when the employees and patients can expect the government to act to ensure the working environment and patient safety? • F 15). The urgent question has now been removed. Then item 1 on the agenda of today's sitting is deleted. On 24 November 2021, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has submitted a report on the investigation into the burial of the mink killed. 2. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130057	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130107	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 101 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT), against which 0 abstained 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130129	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130146	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 99 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT), against 2 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill was passed and sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130213	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130226	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The bill referred to in A is then voted on [Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Financial Activities, the Law on Capital Markets, the Act on Investment Funds, etc.]. and various other laws (Supplementation of the taxonomy regulation and new model SIFI designation)): requested vote on Amendment No. 2-13, member of the Committee? They are adopted. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 14-18, elected by the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130306	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130323	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130338	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130403	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130431	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130503	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130517	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (V and DF), joined by a minority (KF), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 44 (V, DF, KF and NB), against 58 (S, SF, RV, EL, LA, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130552	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130609	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130625	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130640	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (RV), joined by a majority (the other committee with the exception of NB), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 10, outside the report, by the Minister for Health, on Amendment No 10. 2 by a minority (RV), elected by a majority (the other committee with the exception of NB), or on Amendment No. 2, by a minority (RV), elected by a majority (the other committee with the exception of NB), or on Amendment No. 2, by a minority (RV), by a majority (the other committee with the exception of NB) or by a majority (the other committee with the exception of NB). 3 and 4, by a minority (V), elected by a majority (the other committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. The draft law referred to in B shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 11, outside the report, by the Minister for Health, on Amendment No. 5 by a minority (RV), elected by a majority (the other committee with the exception of NB), on Amendment No. 5 by a minority (RV), on amendment No. 5 by a majority (the other committee with the exception of NB). 6, by a minority (V), elected by a majority (the other committee with the exception of NB), on Amendment No. 12, outside the report, by the Minister for Health, or on Amendment No 12. 7-9, by a minority (V), elected by a majority (the other committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130806	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130821	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-12, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130837	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130850	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130906	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130930	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130130946	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (KF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 16 (EL, KF, FG and ALT), against 85 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, NB and LA), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131032	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131047	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can be voted on. Then it's all under control, as I can see. Thank you. in favour of 8 (EL and ALT), against 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB, LA and FG), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of voting 7 (EL and ALT), against 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB, LA and FG), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, 6 and 7, tabled and joined by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Two and five by a majority? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? Then we are done with the votes and those who want to leave the Chamber are asked to do so. I see that we have those back in the Chamber who want to take part in the debate. And if you do not want to take part in the debate, please leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131334	The debate is open. Sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131359	Thank you. It is, of course, such a rather special draft law in the sense that the draft law does not change anything in the legislative text itself. On the other hand, it is a really, very important issue: our information work on development cooperation. But, of course, it's rare that I haven't tried it before we deal with a bill that inserts a paragraph that is drafted with the same wording as the applicable provision. However, as the comments on the proposal state, the reason for this is that it will be possible to amend the comments on the provision in order to abolish Danida's Information Grant and Danida's Information Committee. The background is that some studies have been carried out that point to the fact that, although much works well in information cooperation, there are also some things that can work even better so that we can reach a wider level of information, including those who are not already interested in development policy and so that we can think better about information activities and our engagement activities together. As the comments show, the whole purpose of this proposal is precisely to launch new forms of information and engagement activities with a broad impact and a strengthened link between information and engagement activities. And this information and commitment work is just really important. It is a very, very important basis for our entire development cooperation that the people are informed about both the needs and challenges of the world as well as many of the world's poorest countries, but of course also about the Danish efforts in these countries and how Denmark contributes to solving some of these challenges. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal and I should like to welcome from the Radical Left whose development rapporteur is unfortunately prevented because of his child's illness and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131642	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we thank you. Daniel Toft Jacobsen Should I drink off? ) That's up to you, but you're very welcome, and I think it's a good idea to do it. The speaker's chair is used to it. Daniel Toft Jacobsen is back on the platform, and next time I hope that Mr. Christian Juhl pushes the button a little faster. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131716	I'm an older gentleman, and that's no excuse, but maybe some kind of explanation. Thanks for letting me ask you a question. I would like to know whether the Social Democrats' rapporteur does not think it is a good thing to have the arm's length principle in place when working with development aid and also working with the allocation of money to individuals and organisations • also when making a journal? Why should it be directly under the Minister instead of being placed in a committee where different interests can discuss it before it is decided?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131755	The arm's length principle is a very, very important one, and as I read the proposal, on the one hand, and some of the plans there are, on the other hand, it strengthens the arm's length principle. At least that's how I understand it. The pools to be added to replace this new information grant for Danida must have some external pool managers to manage them and receive applications for them. And that's exactly to strengthen the arm's length arm. So, yes, arm's length is important, and I think that is also what is being proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131834	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131836	I don't understand. If you already have a committee to decide on it, and then you remove it and say that you should try to look at something new, but that until you have found something new, it is the Minister who decides, then there is not much arm's-length principle in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131851	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131853	In other words, there has been a pool, as I understand it, in the Ministry, where the Minister has appointed the members of the information committee which has accepted applications for the pool, which has thus been in the Ministry itself. Now some new pools are being created which will lie with an external pool manager, where it is not only the Minister, but also others who are recommending members to the committee which will have to decide on the applications in the future. I am sorry if it becomes a little technical, but if you have previously had a committee under the Ministry, which is now in the hands of an external grantor, then I think it would be a good idea to have a larger arm's length arm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131933	Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130131936	Thanks for the speech. It is a good thing that something new can also be thought into the dissemination of development aid, but I would like to know whether the rapporteur can clarify a little what is meant by having a broad impact on the population and better coherence between information, engagement activities and the target group. What is the connection between information and commitment, what is the commitment, and what are the target groups? It sounds like there are several categories here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132009	We may also need the Minister to answer some of the questions, but I would like to make a bid. Some studies and evaluations have been carried out on how the information work is working today, and much works well. However, there is also evidence that new target groups have not been sufficiently developed. For there are perhaps some target groups in Denmark, as such having a more natural interest in advance in what is happening in relation to development cooperation, and then there are other target groups that are harder to reach. Maybe it'll get a little caricatured, but I'll, for example. guess that in relation to the teaching part, which is also part of what is going to be included in a new pool, it may be easier to reach, for example. upper secondary education rather than reaching e.g. vocational schools. So to be able to reach some new target groups, which may be some of those who do not already have a natural interest in development cooperation, I think is important, and that is one of the things I understand you are trying to do with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132118	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132120	Thank you. So, you're based on an evaluation back from 2016, and there were like two things in the evaluation you could see. One was that administratively it was a little hassle, and the other was that it was not very effective. What do you think you'll do now with new forms and something? It's the 360° Magazine that's been shut down. What do you think you will do instead of being more effective and more targeted?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132145	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132146	Well, there are different things in it. There will be a replacement for the 360° Magazine, which hopefully will go further out. And in relation to that information grant, there is already an engagement pool that has run, as far as I remember, in 2020 and 2021, and this will be transformed into an information and commitment pool, precisely because the information work and the involvement of people are linked, the two things are linked, so I think that makes perfect sense. Then there will also be, as I understand it, an additional pool which is shortened GLOBUS and which is highly targeted education and that is students', students' and so on. It is also the aim, as I said, to reach a wider level so that it is not just targeted at those who are already interested in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132234	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Now there are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Karen Ellemann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132252	Like the previous rapporteur, I would like to start by saying that it is rather a funny thing to stand by a first reading of a legislative proposal which does not actually specifically go in and change the paragraphs, but changes the comments on the paragraphs, but it has to be done and it has to be done properly, and so we now have this first reading. The essence of this is for me to see exactly the popular support and commitment to the development work carried out by Denmark with good Danish tax crowns. Denmark is among the top five in the world of countries, that is, of nations that provide the most in development aid, and for us rapporteurs who are present in the Chamber today, and for the Minister it is obvious that this is important and is something we basically support. There is very broad political support for Denmark's position on that stage. There are many mandates behind our development policy strategy. It is virtually all the parties of the Folketing except two. So there is broad political support for development policy work. When I look at the House here, it is also for us about making development policy a popular issue; that even more people engage, support it and understand that it matters that Denmark engages both bilaterally and multilaterally, that we are part of the UN and the EU, but also in the direct programme collaborations with individual countries. And when we go to public meetings, whether it is at the people's meeting at Bornholm or the people's meeting in Kenya, we also have a great commitment to development policy work. But it can get better, and that's why we're adjusting this. And it is not wrong for the Conservative rapporteur to point out that we can be a little concerned when the Minister alone is given the power to decide what to do with information efforts. To this I would just like to signal that this is not my expectation, although it is actually what is happening with the proposal. However, because we have just drawn up a development policy strategy which many parties are behind, it is also my expectation that this is something that we will also be informed about in the future and will also be able to complain loudly about if we do not believe that it makes sense in relation to the important information effort and the important information work on what the development funds are being used for. With those comments, it is clearly the intention of the Left to support this bill or this amendment to the comments as it really is. We will support this, and we will support it in the expectation that we will also have a lot of good information work done in the future on Danish development aid. And when you consider the amount of consultation answers that came to the hearing here, it also shows a little that the organisations which manage a great many of the funds are in favour of this adjustment as well. I do not know, with my fellow rapporteurs, whether their backs are swelled with anger or worried emails from actors who would like to see it differently, but at least that has not been the case with my inbox. I also take that as a signal that this is probably not quite wrong. But that will, of course, be something that we must follow. That is something that interests us. It is important that we give priority to awareness-raising, so that there will be sustained support for Denmark to be active on the international stage, and that we are particularly active in the field of development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132711	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132714	After all, I am not surprised that the Socialists and the Left would disagree that it is very good for ministers to decide more than they are doing today, because they have a tradition of sitting in government. But that doesn't change the fact that it's the real world, that is, where a media could benefit, where travel grants and information resources could benefit us. There I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left what she has her expectations and her assumptions in. Does she have an appointment with the Minister? Has she been given a special briefing on this? Because we are some people who haven't heard of this before, even though we have asked several questions since we changed the strategy. What is the point of suddenly closing the box in one place or another?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132758	But the truth is, the box isn't closed, it's being moved. And I think that's pretty important. This is not a proposal which means that no funds and no time and effort should be spent on the information campaign. On the contrary, there is room for improvement. And on the basis of precisely the development policy strategy, I do not have the same type of concern. And I recognise that, and I did so in my rapporteur's speech, this is an authorisation for the Minister, but with a clear expectation from my party, at least, that this authority is managed responsibly as a minister, under the understanding that we are, of course, in dialogue with the parties supporting the development policy strategy. In this context, it is new that Enhedslisten is part of the development policy strategy, and so it may well be that the experience of how such cooperation works is still absent in its developing phase.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132902	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132904	No, it's nothing new. We were just for a time not part of a strategy that was extremely bourgeois and had nothing to do with development aid. That's why we weren't there. But I can hear that the rapporteur has nothing to think about, apart from the good intentions. However, the information committee was closed; the information grant was closed; the Magazine 360° was closed. There's nothing about nothing happening. Something very, very concrete has actually happened over the last year without any explanations. Not even when you ask about it, you get a proper explanation of why it happens and what the alternative is. But is it possible to live in politics for mere conjecture, and everything is going to be okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132941	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130132942	It's no secret that sir... Christian Juhl and I have different approaches to how we actually work with the development policy strategy, how we read the text, and how we have been involved in this cooperation. It's not enough to say you're supposed to. However, experience tells me that and experience I have gained in relation to how to take on this responsibility as a minister, that one should of course have Parliament's support for those things, otherwise one can have the Folketing against oneself. And that is not what a minister wants. So I am not worried in the same way as I know that Mr. Christian Juhl always is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130133023	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130133039	Thank you very much. When my friend, sir... Alex Ahrendtsen has gotten sick, I've got the job to do here. We have, of course, talked a little about our position and, as we can see, there are two options: that this information work is either done through Danida, where you can seek the funds, or that they are now available to the Minister for Development. And I'd say if I'm gonna sum up before I even start saying something, we're what we can call hesitantly positive. It's a new concept, I think. But we are a little hesitant about this, and it has various reasons. I think that the arguments for the adoption of L 83 are, of course, provided by the Minister in the draft law, and the arguments he has seem solid to us. But we do not have the arguments against them, because there are also some of them. I understand that the authorities consulted have no substantive objections. However, there is something from the Red Cross which I think is worth noting, namely that it is a little nervous that the funds allocated at that time will now go to the Minister's project in the hope that the organizations will then be cut off from their disposal. In principle, we are also a little lonely in the Danish People's Party when the talk comes to the government's communication efforts and campaigns. We are also hesitant in principle about this matter of ministerial authority. It's worth coming too. I would say that there are a little conflicting things in what is being presented. So, in the introduction to the bill, Danida's information grant is mentioned, which was evaluated with a report commissioned in autumn 2016, and it says that the Danida scheme is administratively heavy and that despite high quality, they supported activities lacked impact on a wider part of the population. Of course, it is a pity when you do not achieve your objectives, but in the evaluation itself there is in fact something that is in direct contradiction with it, namely: •Information efforts supported by Danida's information funding are generally relevant and of high quality, and show interesting and innovative angles to the challenges facing developing countries. So it's diametrically opposite. And more importantly, it can be said that the evaluation also concludes: "The information grant should be maintained in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as an application-based pool, contributing quality productions in defined areas of action to an increased understanding of the challenges of developing countries'. One might wonder why the Minister did not include this in the conclusion of the draft law, but I will of course leave that to the Minister. In other words, what is the reason why the evaluation is not based on the conclusion that an application-based pool is the best way to ensure information? Finally, how will the Minister ensure the same high quality of information work if the bill is adopted, and how will the Minister ensure greater impact in the communication effort if the bill is adopted? Finally, how will the Minister ensure this so-called arm's length principle in relation to the distribution of funds if the bill is implemented? The Danish People's Party is reluctantly in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130133424	Thank you, too, for the new concept. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130133448	Thank you. It is so important that information is provided on international development work. It is extremely important that we ensure that it is not something like this that is given over in a corner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or in a corner of the Folketing where these things are being treated, and otherwise we don't care. Because if we are to ensure what we want in the SF, namely that we give more in development aid, we also believe that it is important that there is real knowledge and support in the population. I can, with envy, look at Sweden and Norway when they carry out studies on how much support is being given to these things, even with a high-bourgeois government like the previous government in Norway, which could of course turn up tremendously for development aid, while we are some parties that have to sit and argue to come up with just some additional climate aid here in Denmark. And if we are to change that situation, it is about information, it is about involvement, it is about commitment. And then you can look at how you've done it before and say that maybe it was very good. The previous rapporteur spoke of the rather contradictory aspects of the evaluation, because you can read it both as if things were going very well and as if things were not going so well. My own evaluation is that things aren't going so well because we don't get too far out with it. That is simply the problem, and although we are a small group of Tordenskjold soldiers who have enjoyed reading a magazine like 360°, it is just not good enough when we do not get far enough. That is why this proposal for a law amending the law makes very good sense, because we have to do this in a new way. I am not normally happy with ministerial authority at all, but I think it makes sense here, where we have a strategy that is broadly anchored in the Folketing and of which we stand on our shoulders, and then it is our work and our job to keep the Minister on fire and, in relation to that strategy, to ensure that the new means of information are used for what they are intended for, and I am actually comfortable with that until proven otherwise, because that is our task. I can, of course, look around the rapporteurs in the field of international development in the Folketing that they are good colleagues, so I think that the Minister knows very well that he must ensure good cooperation here. So I am delighted that we are changing things from what they were, and it is not because it was not good, but as long as we do not reach the broad enough, it is not good enough. So I look forward to what it will offer in the future, and I really hope that more information will also bring about the popular change that will enable us to raise the budgets for international development, as we see in Sweden and Norway, because that is what we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130133753	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130133801	Thank you for the floor. This is a very strange suggestion, not least in view of the fact that at least I, and others, have asked the Minister a number of questions and asked: What do you want when you can allow yourself to shut down the information resources, and when you can allow yourself to shut down a journal that has worked in, I don't know how many years, and which is not to my taste very good, or was super good, without explaining what the alternative is? I have asked and asked three times, I think, and I have also done so in writing, and there are some answers, and it says that one is quite convinced that a new journal will be both innovative and in a new way reach a wide range of the Danes. It might be nice to know: What is this all about? I do not, like the Left, have such a blind faith that a minister always finds a grain of gold. I think we should do what we have done up to now: strengthen efforts, but also ensure that the professional capacities we have outside this very fine Chamber, but then work systematically with these things on a daily basis. And that means that corporate income tax and the inclusion of qualifications are extremely important. Now it has been mentioned about Norway and Sweden, and I recognise that I am following in a Norwegian Internet magazine, which is really, really good. It is called Aid in fact because they dare to be critical of the minister and politicians and also of the developing organisations. 360 degrees didn't. There has hardly ever been a critical article in that magazine. It has told of how excellent things are, and in this way you do not create enthusiasm. There you have to be nuanced and you have to be innovative. It may also happen that we could find out if otherwise the Minister included someone other than his own thoughts in such a proposal as this. And I think the order is wrong. I think that we need to strengthen the information work, which needs to strengthen what the rest of us were turned on when we were young. I got a travel grant from Danida myself and was in Namibia for 14 days, and I knew that when I got home, I had to convey these things to my colleagues at work and around the trade unions. I was really excited to be able to turn it into another country, and that made me have a lifelong interest in this area, which I have spent a lot of my time on. In this way, there are opportunities in the system we have and it can also be improved. But why in the world can't we get the veil on what it is before we start to decide on a bill that's screwed up quite oddly? The Minister for Foreign Affairs' complete reorganization of the information resources is almost called the burning earth's tactics. It has a certain intellectual beauty on it, but the risk is, of course, that the change goes wrong and leads to the relatively well-functioning element that one now has dying in the process. That is what Søren Schultz Jørgensen said when he heard about these things, and I would also like to encourage my colleagues to read the wise man Jesper Heldgaard, who is following this area with great interest. He writes: While everyone's eyes in 2020 are on the corona crisis, someone killed Danida's enlightenment pool and committee. No one has taken responsibility for or justified the killing. But it is even more worrying that no one from the environment has raised their eyebrows. Apparently, they haven't noticed. I myself have tried to call some of our organisations and asked them why they have not made any comments on it. There is only the Red Cross and CISU, and I understand CISU, because they are much more dependent on these followers than anyone else is because they are small organizations. The CISU has said that there is no arm's length transfer pricing in this, why is it not described in the material, why is it just described that it passes to the minister? And I can understand why I asked that question too. As politicians, we are not here to applaud the Minister on his back. We're here to ask critical questions when we need to make a new law. And that's where you're gonna have to play for a form, but I see that I've been chosen for that. I have to scrape the paint every time there is a proposal that does not look clear enough. That is why I am asking the critical questions. When the minister replies, Mr. Rune Lund asked why the 8 million is being saved. kr. on the information pool, the Minister says that they have just moved to the renovation and transit system. It is a completely different arrangement, and it has nothing to do with information work. It may well get that if you change that scheme, but it is something about renovating old things and then sending them to the Third World so that they can be used there, for example. hospital equipment and stuff. So that is not an answer, and that is why I would like a proper answer when I ask, also in relation to it by 360 degrees. How will a wider section of Danes be ensured to obtain information in new and innovative ways? These are such airy words; what can we use it for? I would like to have solid ground under my feet when I change things, and I would like to know where the Minister is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130134316	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130134324	Thank you. I was a little surprised when we had this proposal to amend the paragraphs, as the rapporteur of the Left rightly said. After all, we have discussed it in our conciliation circle, and I think we have such a fairly open and honest dialogue with the Minister about what would happen after the destruction of the magazine 360o. You can have different views about it, but it's not that much. That's more what you put in place. It's nice to think new, but we just haven't gotten involved, and now we get this. We must vote for something, but we do not really know what is going to happen instead. We do not know how it will be managed, other than that the Minister will have great powers. He may already have, but if nothing else, there was a committee that decided how the money should be distributed. There is no such thing here, and I do not know whether I always have the necessary confidence in the light of how it is going on in the government, in relation to how much we are being involved in time as an opposition. The latter is not exactly what is traditional. I think that is problematic, because it is simply so important that we communicate about our development aid. After all, we have been discussing for so long through our work on the new action plan, how important it is with the positions of strength Denmark has. It's binding when we can. We should set the bar high, we should take the lead in securing rights. We should have green conversion, we should have nature-based solutions, and we should guarantee the rights of women and girls. We should be discussing what we need to do, also in relation to the fragile states, which are incredibly difficult to deal with, and we have been put back a great deal because of what has now happened in Afghanistan, after we have been there for as long as we actually have, namely 16 years. How, then, are we to secure popular support for our development policy and to spend 17 billion? kr.? I think there are some very important questions that we should ask ourselves before we go in and make paragraph changes, because that is not really what this is about. We should have a responsibility not only for all taxpayers' money, but also for Denmark's reputation, a broad discussion of what we are doing and what we are communicating out and why. I really miss that. I miss a debate about what we want to do with this, also in terms of thinking in new ways. We've already talked about that. We've been talking about the fact that it's very important to get hold of the young people. There are many of the young people who are interested in what is happening in the world and also what Denmark is doing. We need the social media, that is, the platforms that young people are moving on. We also need to bring our business community. There is the connection with our business community, in terms of how we can create jobs out there, also an important part that we need to bring with us. It also applies to how we should link things to foreign policy and see it all in a wider context, so that aid is not seen more as something administrative. So I think you do it a little backwards. I really wish that we had been involved, that we had discussed what we should do, and then that we should have discussed the way. Now it's in the reverse order. So I would say that we must, of course, bet on an arm's length principle, and we must bet on a proper discussion, and with that we must support making changes to paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130134640	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130134647	This bill does not give New Citizens any significant comment, but at a time of corona crisis, massive Danish borrowing, tax increases and the payment of many extra billions to the EU, Denmark still spends a two-digit billion amount on the development minister's territory. We give away money that we don't have. That is a completely wrong priority. Focus must be on Denmark and the challenges we face. Pr. Denmark must dispose of 0.7% automatically. of development aid. This means that an increase in the income of the Danes automatically results in more money being sent out of the country. In 2021, Danish tax-financed development aid is expected to exceed 17 billion. kr. It's not the time to give 17 billion. kr. Get out of the way. We have enough money to spend on our own, and it will not be less serious when we know that there is not much to suggest that development aid is helping at all. It is not Denmark's job to save the whole world. We can't, and neither should we. We can and we must help in emergency situations, but Denmark must completely eliminate long-term development aid. Instead, Denmark must help the poor countries in the only way that has proved effective, namely through trade. That makes us all richer, both our people and the developing countries. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130134806	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130134808	I do not know where to start with such opinions, but I would just like to ask a question. Is it better to let things develop and not prevent a conflict, a crisis, a hunger disaster, a climate situation and then only help people when they are hit by the crisis and when they are on their way as refugees than it is to prevent? What is the reason why New Citizens cannot see at all that it is right, really good to prevent such a thing and build strong societies so that people can live, live, develop and have production and schools etc. where they live, so that crises are prevented instead of saying that we should only provide emergency aid when people are really in crisis? No, we shouldn't let people end up in a crisis. Isn't that logic for New Citizens, or is it completely black talk?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130134900	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130134901	Yeah, we should do it if it worked, but it doesn't. In other words, the studies that have been carried out show that development aid has no long-term effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130134912	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130134913	No, it's wrong. There are no studies showing that it is bad to provide development aid. There are studies that show that it takes a long time to do that is absolutely right. But we all knew that. After all, we have known that the situation in a country in one year's time cannot be changed in Mali or elsewhere. That is why it is wrong for the new citizens to continue to say that it turns out that there is no point in it. It does. It is of such use when countries come together to secure these things. Moreover, it ensures that we provide long-term development aid, indeed also business, which New Citizens are trying to talk about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130134952	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130134953	Well, I don't agree with that. In other words, the research that lies shows that it has no long-term effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130135003	I should like to know if there are any more rapporteurs who would like to speak. It's there, and it's sir. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130135022	Thank you. I shall be very brief. I think it is a good proposal from the government that lies here. And now I just got into that discussion about whether development cooperation is of any use at all. It is very useful, and it would be even more useful, if we did not do so every time emergencies occur around the world, to take our long-term development aid and move it over to emergency aid, as we do, because then we will be removing the money from long-term work. So if it doesn't work, it's a lot of times because we're moving the money ourselves all the time. But that must be the brief comment on what just happened here and which I just managed to make. KD, of course, supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130135107	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and no more rapporteurs have asked to speak. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130135126	Thank you, President, and thank all the rapporteurs. It is very good that we have this debate. I am very pleased that there is such a broad interest in information work in relation to international development cooperation. The new development policy strategy, which eight of the Danish Parliament's parties are behind, is about solving the major challenges of the time together, and it is absolutely crucial that we include the Danes in this particular task. Fortunately, our studies show that there is increasing support for development cooperation and that it is very important to the Danes that Denmark helps to meet the global challenges. We must continue to have the support of the Danes. The broad popular support is the whole basis for us to be able to help as massively as we do in the world. Therefore, we must create opportunities for the Danes to engage in precisely this work. When 100,000 Danes open the first gate of the Children's U-country calendar tomorrow, on 1 December, this is an example of our actively working to create information, commitment and support for our international development cooperation. In order to maintain popular support, it is therefore essential that development cooperation is seen as relevant. It must be relevant where we help, and it must also be relevant to the Danes at home. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. It has chosen to close down the magazine 360°, as several of the rapporteur has mentioned, in recognition of the fact that the magazine's editions had too narrow a readership too narrow. We have to invest in the information work so it gets much further out, and therefore the government wants to rethink how we inform about and how we get the Danes involved in development cooperation. We must be able to do information work that brings all Danes with us, and we must not only inform those who are already involved in the work. We must go further with our activities than we can do today. We discussed this in the rapporteur's group when we drew up our new strategy. It's a foundation. In order to reach more Danes, we will set up a new support system for the information work on development cooperation, and the draft law provides for the possibility of abolishing the existing scheme, which is called Danida's Information Grant and Danida's Information Committee. The scheme created strong efforts, but reached a far too narrow share of the Danes. The government wants more people to benefit from the products and activities that we support and that we should do so without heavy administrations and with increased corporate income tax. Several of you good draftsmen I agree with someone who said that; there are really talented rapporteurs and dedicated rapporteurs in this group who have said that the income tax is necessary and we work for more income tax here. The changes in the law do not change the fact that we can initiate communication efforts in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and will also be able to provide funding for information activities in the future through new pool schemes. We are already in the process of establishing new arrangements for the information and engagement work, and we are doing so in cooperation with former users and with civil society. They must be able to see themselves in the new arrangements. They must be able to keep making the bets that work, and they must be able to make new bets that reach more Danes. Development cooperation depends on broad popular support. Let it be chiseled! This support comes from reaching the Danes, and as many people as possible must know about development cooperation and want to get involved. That is the idea, and what must be the usefulness of this bill here. In conclusion, I need to try to outline a little of the concepts that have been raised by many of the rapporteurs. Let me start where we remove and lay down something. We're removing the Engagement pool. We remove Danida's Information Grant and we remove Danida's Information Committee and we remove 360° as a magazine. What are we doing instead? We make a new pool called the Engagement and Engagement Pool, which gets more money than the old ones had, and we make a new pool called GLOBUS, which gets just under 20 million. kr., and then we're making a new media, and we're in the process of finding out what to do. I have informed the rapporteur on several occasions, most recently when we also met and had some dinner not so long ago. We are in the process of doing so, and when we come closer to a finish line, I must guarantee that the rapporteur's circle will be informed close to that. The new media is also to answer Mr. Christian Juhl, who inquires about the income and independence of the company, becomes completely independent, whereas the old 360° one cannot say was independent, for it was produced in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and it was produced by the Minister himself. So we're really trying to lift the arm's length. We are offering the opportunity for all those who are committed to the very broad civil society to have even better opportunities. The reason you make two pools in the future is because you will try to target them. As Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen said so, GLOBUS becomes a major civil society, professional organisations, educational institutions and pupils, whereas the Engagement and Engagement pool also becomes civil society, such as journalists and intermediaries and other professionals of that type. I would also like to say at the end that it will be an external pool manager who will be connected to the two new pools, and that will be according to the EU offer qua the size, and the external pool manager will have to set up a licensing committee which will help to ensure exactly the arm's length arm's length as I mentioned earlier. So there are new opportunities, and that is because the need is great, because the government wants to follow up the very fine development policy strategy that eight parties supported in June, which means that the efforts that Denmark is making today can continue to be made and that the commitment that I and several of the rapporteurs have said about the Danes' commitment is so damn important. I was just expressing it more clearly. In fact, I would like to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that I have the same joy. My long experience has been a lifelong commitment so far to this area was guarded by the fact that I also received a little push and support from Danida through an organization. So I'm one of those guys who, in the same way as mr. Christian Juhl ivotes: Once infected with the work of the committee, always infected with it. Thank you for that, and I look forward to discussing the legislative proposal, and I can guarantee that the rapporteur's circle will be involved and will be presented with any work that may be done now and before it is presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130135947	Thank you, Minister. There are brief comments. First, it is Mrs Karen Ellemann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130135951	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Minister for clarifying. As a small warning in relation to the two brief remarks that are coming from my mouth here, I would say that it is actually just an attempt to get the anxiety in the ground just like that. Can the Minister confirm that this change, which we are likely to adopt by a broad majority in the Parliamentary Assembly, will not mean that the Minister will then appoint his own communication officer, who will then create an instagram profile for the Minister, whose sole purpose is to profile the Minister in the development policy work?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140032	I can answer that quite clearly: that is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140036	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140038	I thought so, and thank you for confirming it. It was just for the sake of not being unduly worried. The second question is about the matter of giving the Minister authority. The Minister has already mentioned this, but just to clarify it again, I would like to hear: when such an authorization is given in relation to the information work, can the Minister confirm, on the one hand, that this is already something the Minister has had up to today and, on the other hand, confirm that the Minister's approach to having this authority is precisely based on close cooperation with the parties behind the development policy strategy and that if there is a broad opposition, will the Minister adjust to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140122	There is nothing I am more pleased about in my office as Minister than the broad political majority who adopted the development policy strategy in June. I can feel it every time I discuss Danish action in the world and tell what broad political foundation it rests on. It's a huge force. Yes, I can also confirm that the Minister will not be given more authority than the Minister has so far had.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140154	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140155	Wow, those were sharp and harsh and profound questions from the opposition. With that opposition, then, the Minister must become so nervous. Good thing there are also easy questions to answer. I would like to ask the Minister about the fact that more people should benefit, how? More people have to read the news how? There must be an increased arm's length arm's length, how? Yes, there has to be an external manager who has to make some committee. What kind of people do we get to make those decisions? Are these the good people from the development environment? What kind of people are we gonna get to do this? For example, is it... the critical journalists that we have known and that we have supported in Danwatch or in Global Focus or elsewhere? The Minister's orientation is not much wiser than the fact that something new has to happen and that the money has to be moved into some other pools. What does it do for the benefit of moving money into the renovation and transit system? It needs money in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140306	Thank you. The minister. One minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140307	Well, sir. Christian Juhl, I'm glad to be able to explain. Let me take the 360° magazine first. Well, we've had it sent out very widely to those who might want to bid to have to make our new media. It has to be something that has some modernity. It must be something that can hit the Danes wide. Eight project proposals have been submitted. We are working on the four in concrete terms, and they must submit their final concept proposals. It is being assessed on the basis of a whole range of criteria, and this must be the case precisely because we need to rethink our entire development cooperation. I hope that something can be clear at the end of this year and that we can then sort of work on it. I am personally sorry that we had the magazine closed down 360° before there was anything to replace it. This has not happened in my time as Minister, but ahead of it. And we are working hard to find something that is modern and something that can really hit the Danes. That's what makes the whole case.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140416	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140418	Now I have to ask a question. If the Minister says that he is personally sorry that the journal was closed, but that it is actually the Minister himself who writes it or does it, how does it relate? Surely the Minister has decided that the journal should no longer be published. That's one thing. It doesn't add up. The second is that I think it's amazing if we can get some improvements out of this. But would it not have been better at least in the first place perhaps to use the circle that was around the strategy as a kind of think tank, and not just to inform that something is happening, but to include and get some ideas on the table before the minister started to wobble with these plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140458	Thank you. The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140459	What I am saying is that it was a former minister who laid down the old, and I couldn't, of course, stand up for that, other than by continuing it. We're in a hurry to make a new one. In relation to who we are listening to, I would say that I think it is very crucial to look at the consultation answers that have been given. It has been sent out to 27 NGOs plus in a public hearing, and only two have replied, and there have been no substantive comments on the amendment to the bill here. I can guarantee that the parties will be listened to. And as I said before, our only purpose in doing this is to do something better. Who could primarily be interested in that? Civil society organisations can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140544	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140547	Thank you, Minister. There was one of the questions that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen had asked me to convey, which I do not think was the answer to. It was about the difference between the introduction of the bill and what is the evaluation itself, where, just as we see it, there are two completely different things. The introduction states that the scheme is administratively heavy and that despite high quality, the supported activities lack the impact of a wider population. But if you read the evaluation itself, it says: "Information interventions supported by Danida's Information Grant are generally relevant and of high quality and show interesting and innovative angles to the challenges facing developing countries. So I would like to ask: what is the reason for not weighing up the evaluation's conclusion, which clearly states that an application-based pool is the best way to ensure quality information?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140648	Thank you for the question. And it's true that I didn't get the answer. I fully agree with that with the application-based approach, and that is also what we will continue to do in the future, Mr President. Søren Espersen. So this is a matter of taking some things with you. That is also why I believe that there is also confidence among civil society organisations that we will be able to do what we did in the future, as we did in the past. But what is the whole essence of this is that there has been a very broad realization, also through evaluations, that we didn't make it out wide enough. And the fact that just reaching the same circle of initiatives is not good enough and it does not meet what has been the political debate behind our new development policy strategy, where we have a whole chapter on engagement. That is why the time has come, also with the background of such a strong strategy as we have, with the priorities that have been made and with the focus that has been on it to say that now there must be some new buns on the soup. That is what comes now both with the pools, but also with the new media.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140752	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140753	Yes, but one might ask: why is the introduction so completely different from what it says in the evaluation itself? In other words, when it is stated at the outset that the whole thing is going on administratively and that there is a lack of quality, but that there is something quite different in the evaluation itself. Would it not at least have been fair to include both the pre- and the opposite so that the committee had a real opportunity to assess it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140824	Yes, and I'm listening to it, sir. Søren Espersen says. I think that when you have to make major evaluations and then build some new adjustments, it can be difficult to make a total aggregation of everything that has been expressed. However, what many parties have said, and which has also been a political experience in relation to this, is that it has been administratively cumbersome. It is clear that it serves no purpose whatsoever, and that is one of them. And one of the reasons why we're saying this has to be different. That's why we're gonna put it up to these parties who have to manage it, that is to say the external pool managers, that they have to be flexible, they're gonna have to be good. That is what suits our country, and that is how we want public funds to be managed at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140905	Thank you. Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140908	Thank you. I referred to two things which the Minister said here, as well as to stress some points. One was the broad support, and it is also true that there is broad support for the strategy, and I also hope that the Minister will respect that that is what he has support for, but perhaps not other things where the strategy is sometimes taken a little hostage, among other things. When you look at the Deadline and there is talk of a migration fund, it is also said that there is broad support from the parties. So, in order to ensure that there is good support, it is important that there is a good dialogue and that the Minister will guarantee involvement. What kind of involvement does the Minister now see in the further commitment to information, which is at a critical time for Danish development aid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130140954	A critical time for Danish development aid? Maybe I didn't quite understand how to interpret that. I would say that as the world is, yes, the world is critical, which is why it is of course also critical that we are there and that we are there with the gravity we are. But I can guarantee as a minister that the close dialogue with the contracting circle will be followed up and that I will always be available in relation to questions and that I will try to respond specifically to that, or else we will have skilled officials to help in relation to it. At any rate, I think that, towards the draft law here today, I have a whole series of cases where we have had it up in our group of rapporteurs in order to discuss precisely the need to amend this remark so that we can make the new one. Nor have I seen anyone who has said that it is not necessary to do anything new. Nor have I experienced anyone saying that the old was just superperfect, and I think that is actually the reason. But I can certainly open the door and the open dialogue in the rapporteur's circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130141100	Thank you. Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130141102	Thank you. As I mentioned, Minister Conservatives has support for us to do something new. When I think it is critical, it is because we are in a difficult situation in the world. We are in the process of changing completely in Afghanistan, and there are many who are asking what our commitment has been and whether it has been worth it. We have critical questions, also because we are risky and go into difficult areas such as the Sahel and Ethiopia. There is much need to communicate, so how long will it take us to see something new being communicated? Because for a long time now there has been a great deal of silence about communication about aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130141137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130141137-2	Yes, I hope we can get here very quickly, so that we can get the new media knocked out to the entire Danish population. I hope we can do that in the first half of 2022. That is also where I say that the four who are now in the final sprint are in the process of qualifying their proposals, and in relation to the pools we are also working very quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130141205	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We are now taking a technical break in a few minutes, because we are going to have a question and that means that the rapporteurs have to sit up in the first row. So there's just a short technical break.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130141443	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until tomorrow, Thursday 2 December 2021. First of all, for the explanatory statement, it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mr President. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130141516	Thank you very much, President. Thank you to the Minister for being here. I've been looking forward to today. Hopefully, this will be the next step towards finding the full truth if we ever find it, in relation to the process leading up to Afghanistan's collapse in August. We have had a consultation with the Minister, so we have had a consultation with the Minister, so we have had a closed consultation with the Minister, and each time we come a little closer to what has actually happened, especially in relation to how it could be that the Danish Chief of Strength sent back very, very clear warnings to the defense, for which the Minister is chief, with absolutely crucial details, which we were not informed about here in the Danish Parliament. I am quite sure of that and I think many of the rapporteurs will agree with me that we had acted quite differently back in June, if we had known about the content of these week reports, where the last and most striking one came in mid-June. That raises a number of questions. First of all, what did the Secretary of Defense know? Was the Secretary of Defense aware of the content of the weekly reports? The Minister first says that the Minister has not been. Later, the minister then writes in an answer: Well, they were part of the overall intelligence image of the Defense Intelligence Service. I mean, these two things don't add up. It also raises the question: what has the Minister of Defence done to correct his internal system, in relation to whether, if we were in an identical situation today, would happen again, that the Folketing would not get such important and so crucial information about an effort where we have sacrificed over 40 Danish soldiers over 20 years? That's completely unforgivable. Then, of course, there is what I am also very curious about: what do the government's own support parties say when these things have come out and it is so clear? There seems to have been a little loud silence from the support parties when it comes to criticising the Minister. Now, of course, we have the opportunity to actually engage in a dialogue and hear: can the support parties really vouch for the fact that such crucial information had not been provided? I guess it's a lot of support parties that already said in the early summer that we had to act. If everyone in the Folketing, at least the Foreign Policy Name, had been familiar with these things, then I am at least convinced that we had acted in a completely different way and much earlier. So I look forward to a good debate. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130141732	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. And then we get the answer. Here you go, the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130141744	No one would have wanted to be in the situation that we were back in August in Kabul, where, at short notice and under chaotic conditions, we made an evacuation of about 1,000 people from Afghanistan. During the evacuation operation, Danish soldiers and other officials provided an extraordinary effort, but that we ended up in a situation where it was necessary to evacuate in such difficult conditions calls for us to reflect on and evaluate our efforts. In the case of the Danish soldiers, the Danish strength contribution to NATO's mission in Afghanistan was withdrawn on 22 June 2021. The soldiers' safety during their return in June was my full focus, and all the soldiers came home in good order. As Secretary of Defense, it was absolutely central to me. The questioners ask whether the weekly reports sent to the Defence Command before the last Danish soldiers left Afghanistan were also submitted to me. As a minister, I don't receive weekly reports from the Defense Department. As has been the general practice of previous governments, this government has relied on the FE's assessment of the security situation in Afghanistan and the weekly reports have been made as part of the FE's overall intelligence base. However, the Ministry of Defence is not involved in the establishment of the comprehensive intelligence image by the FE. This is FE's professional responsibility. FE collates their assessments on the basis of many different information, and it is quite fundamental to the operation of an intelligence service that the building of an intelligence base is based on as many and independent sources as possible. The relevant weekly reports have been sent to the Folketing as a whole on 22 September 2021 and, as you will be able to read, it is not the Week reports that describe a fragile security situation in Afghanistan, as did the FE in their reporting. The FE has long pointed out that the most likely scenarios were the establishment of a Taliban-controlled emirat or a civil war, which was also reported to Parliament before the summer. The timing of Kabul's fall surprised. It surprised Denmark, it surprised Defence Intelligence and the intelligence services of the other Western countries. It surprised how quickly Kabul fell. The Americans too were surprised. The fact that everyone was surprised must, I would say, give rise to an evaluation. It is in everyone's interest that we do what we can to avoid facing a similar situation another time. A thorough inter-ministerial evaluation of the efforts and knowledge base has been initiated up to the Taliban's entry into Kabul and, in the light of the progress made in the run-up to the evacuations from Afghanistan, the FE has launched an internal evaluation to gain experience. It is important to learn from the process. The same is undoubtedly happening among the intelligence services of our allies, who, in the end too, I would like to mention, for the sake of good order, that I do not recognise the premises put forward by the authors, because I was not the minister, but the Defence Intelligence Service, which informed Parliament's parties on 9 August about the situation in Afghanistan. Nor do I recognize the picture that I, as Minister, should have presented a less critical assessment of the situation to the Folketing. The Government has on several occasions informed Parliament of the situation in Afghanistan. There have been a number of meetings in the Political Name in 2021, where the government has highlighted that the prospects for Afghanistan were bleak. The last Danish soldier left Afghanistan on June 22nd. Then there was no August, where the Defense helped the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the evacuation. The whole process is now being evaluated and I, like many others, look forward to seeing the results of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142231	Thank you. One brief comment can now be made on each of the party's main rapporteurs. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142240	Thank you, Minister. I remember that in mid-August, on 15 August, in order to be precise, it came out on the news that Afghanistan's second and second most important city, Jalalabad, had fallen, and when I heard it, I thought: now it is not long before Kabul falls; if the second and second most important city, and if a neighbouring city to Kabul, falls, then it is really, really wrong. It was August 15th. On 16 June, 2 months earlier, the Danish Chief of Force sent back a report that the Taliban controlled Jalalabad. Does the Minister not think that this information would have been important for us to know here in the Folketing? Does the Minister not think that a great many of us who actually know just a little about Afghanistan would have thought that it was actually much, much worse than we had imagined and that we would have been able to act two months before we actually acted?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142332	As has also been shared with the Danish Parliament, the Defence Intelligence Service's assessment of Afghanistan was that the situation was unstable and uncertain, and that the future offered either a Taliban-controlled emirate or civil war. It has been shared with the Folketing by several times up to the summer. The FE's assessment in relation to Jalalabad and their knowledge of when Jalalabad fell, has also been answered in relation to a written question put by the questioner himself, and it was on 15 August that it was clear to the FE that Jalalabad had fallen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142411	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142413	Thank you. I would really like to ask about the future, where I would like to see us secure both direct employees, but also collaborators as best we can out there. Is the Minister's view that it is time to end the interpretation agreement that lies and actually try to find a framework for securing employees and also partners that are more comprehensive? Because I think there is a need for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142447	Thank you for the question. There are, of course, two different things here. The Interpreting Agreement has been aimed at those who have worked with Denmark in the past, the interpreters have not been employed directly by Denmark, but they have been able to search through the Interpreting Agreement and those who were primarily evacuated. Thus, the majority of those who were evacuated in the days immediately following the Taliban's entry into Kabul were, of course, local staff at the embassy. In relation to the interpretation agreement, we have relied on the interpreters themselves to seek, and in this way it has been open all the way through. And when you look at when the applications from interpreters began to come, it was only in the very last days, and to the greatest extent, when Kabul had fallen. However, when it comes to interpreters, I think that we have had a very good and solid agreement, but I also think it is clear that, in relation to mixing interpreters who have not had a real relationship with Denmark, together with permanent staff at the embassy, there are two different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142558	Then it's mr. Mark Grossmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142600	Thank you. The word surprised is certainly one of the most widely used words in this matter at the moment, and I also believe that one must be a politician in order to be as surprised as most have been in relation to the unrest in Afghanistan. But there's something I'm worried about, and I also know that the rest of the Left is, and it's of course Denmark's safety, in relation to whether these things can happen again. An expression called the overall picture has been used many times. It has also been used for consultation. Can the Minister not try to explain what that means when we talk about the overall picture?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142633	This government, just as it has been the general practice of previous governments, is based on the analysis and assessment of the security situation by the Defence Intelligence Service. And the way they put their pictures is, of course, that there are a large number of analysts who pick up information in different ways. It can be electronic information, and it can be information obtained from natural persons, and it can also be information from the press. And all the information they piece together into an intelligence image, and that is what they present to the government and in this context also to the Folketing, because on 9 August the FE itself appeared and presented to the Folketing what their expectations were in relation to Kabul. And on 9 August, the clear announcement was that Kabul was expected to last the year.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142733	Then it's Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142737	Thank you. One of the things that we in the SF have been wondering about and worried about in this process is that the assessments from many intelligence services and not only the Danish turned out to be to put it mildly a little bit optimistic. What is the Minister thinking about this? Now we know that an evaluation has been set in motion which will clarify some of this, but I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that over the last few years we have had so many situations where the intelligence services' assessments have been misguided or in some other way a little wrong and have thus contributed to some inappropriate decisions by political groups. We think in the SF that we need to take note of that word just to use it. Does the Minister share that view? And is it possible in some way that we start talking about how to ensure that intelligence services assess more fairly?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142847	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142848	First of all, I have no reason to question our intelligence services. I think they're doing a good, strong job. But intelligence is also the best estimate of what you expect to happen. It's not exact science. Reality sometimes surpasses even the best analyses. But I think that some of what is clear is two things. One thing is an understanding of what you build your information across all Western intelligence services: do you build your information on too many of the same sources, and are there any sources that you attach too much value to? So that's one thing. The second is what is about consistency, for something may well have a small probability, but a great consequence. And, of course, it is important that we get it more reflected. The same goes for the fact that something may have a high probability, but a small consequence. I think it would be useful if we had it reflected in our intelligence image.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142947	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130142949	I do not remember the Minister informing us when Kabul would fall. I remember FE, and I remember some in the department who gave an assessment. And when we ask where those assessments came from, the answer is that it is some sort of overall picture and largely based on some American intelligence. And who would have been able to do something about it? The Minister could be asked that, but the Minister is probably not the right person to answer it. What I'd like to ask is something else. It is true that, for a period up to that, we can clearly see that things are unstable. After all, some discussions are going on bilaterally and multilaterally between the parties of the Folketing and the government. I would just like to ask whether the Minister is of the opinion that the Left and Conservatives were particularly concerned that evacuations should be started.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143052	I experienced that there were parties that were more busy than others and to the direct question: No, I did not find that the Left and Conservatives were the ones who were most busy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143105	Thank you, Minister. Then there are no more brief comments here in the first round, and that allows the rapporteur's round to begin. The first rapporteur will be the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mr Beazley. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143126	Thank you, President. As I said, I am very pleased that we could finally find time for this question debate. After all, it has become clear that Parliament did not receive the necessary information about the situation in Afghanistan in the months leading up to the country's final collapse in August of this year. We from the Conservatives and from at least the majority of the blue bloc are particularly sensitive to the fact that the Danish Chief of Force, Willum Larsen, sent alarming reports back to the defense, which the Minister is in charge of, with information that never reached us here in the Danish Parliament, and that is in spite of the fact that we, among other things, have. in the Foreign Policy Name asked for a security update on the situation in Afghanistan because we were so worried. The weekly reports contained crucial intelligence, which had been vital for us in the Folketing to have been told already in the early summer. There are a great many parts that had been important, but now I take what is at least most striking for me, namely that the provincial capital of Jalalabad, the neighbouring city of Kabul, the country's second largest city, the country's second most important city, was already under the control of the Taliban in mid-June. Now we can understand from the Minister, who otherwise says that the weekly reports have been included in the overall work of intelligence, that she did not become aware of it until 15 August. This means that again here we have a minister who says: Well the week reports were part of FE's work, but the FE only knew that Jalalabad had fallen on 15 August, despite the fact that in the week reports it did so in mid-June. If we had known at the time, we would have known that Kabul is now an even closer step towards being finally isolated and falling. The weekly reports also described how the morals of the Afghan army had collapsed and that Afghan soldiers surrender in numbers, etc. etc. We were not told all of this in the Foreign Policy Name. So the big question is, what did the Secretary of Defense know? During a conciliation meeting in September, the Minister says that she has neither seen nor received the weekly reports, as a headline appeared in Berlingske, and precisely says the Minister: I have not received the information contained in these weekly reports. When we saw a month later asking the Minister in writing, the Minister says what the Minister has also said here in the Chair: but the content of the weekly reports was still part of the overall intelligence image of the Defence Intelligence Service. So that's what I'm left with the big question: if this information was part of the FE's intelligence image, why didn't we get to know it here in the Folketing? Sir. Jens Rohde says that the Left and Conservatives weren't super busy there in the early summer, and to that I would say: no, because it wasn't this picture that was presented to us by the Defence Intelligence Service. If we had had this picture presented, we would have, and I think Mr. Jens Rohde himself would have reacted with even greater haste back in the early summer. The fact that that image has not been passed on by the Minister is precisely inexcusable for two reasons: firstly, a minister in the Folketing must speak the truth. I find it difficult to see it when the Minister first says that the content has not been accessed by her, and afterwards she says that yes, it was part of the overall intelligence picture. Secondly, it is unforgivable because the Minister for Defence did not inform us in the Danish Parliament about the main content of the weekly reports, because if she had done so, we would have reacted in June, at least there about where among others. Australia closed their embassy because they were worried and did not wait until August, when we actually first acted in the Folketing. That is why, as a Conservative, we have since said that we believe that the Minister for Defence should resign as a consequence. There is no support for this, but I still think that we should continue to work on this and, in particular, hear why the support parties continue to believe that the Minister for Defence should not be fully accountable for this long series of errors. So I also look very much forward to hearing the support parties. Well, that's one thing. As regards the internal investigation initiated by the government itself, which was launched on 25 August, I think it was that much of what has come to light came out after the government launched that investigation. It has also emerged that the internal investigation initiated by the government on mink has also been deeply criticised. So all other things being equal, the support parties should sit and wonder why it was just that they supported an internal investigation of the government rather than what the blue parties had asked for, namely an independent investigation. Finally, on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, New Citizens' Party, and I am also counting on the Liberal Alliance to be involved, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament expresses criticism that the Danish Parliament received incomplete information on the actual situation in Afghanistan up to and in connection with the evacuation of people associated with Denmark from Afghanistan in the spring and summer 2021. The Danish Parliament also notes with great amazement that the Minister for Defence has answered inconsistently, in relation to whether the Minister has been aware of all or part of the weekly reports from Afghanistan, which have been shown to represent a much more serious picture of the situation in Afghanistan than the one submitted to the Danish Parliament. On this basis, the Danish Parliament expresses serious criticism of the Minister for Defence after the incomplete information of the Danish Parliament on one of the most serious situations in the field of defence in recent times, which has potentially prevented the Danish Parliament from acting in a timely manner. • V 14).
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143651	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There are a number of brief comments, first from Mr. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143701	Thank you to the rapporteur. This is about the weekly reports which, according to the rapporteur, should play a completely new role in assessing the situation in Afghanistan. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: where exactly is it and the rapporteur is allowed to point it out precisely, because I have also read the reports that it says that Kabul would fall in August or within a few weeks?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143735	It doesn't say exactly when Kabul would fall. However, there is information that is absolutely crucial to anyone who knows just a little about defence and about the situation in Afghanistan. And now I again use the example that Jaalalabad is under the Taliban's control... that report will be sent back to the defense on 16 June. When will we be told in public? We will do so on 15 August, the day before Kabul falls. And as I said in my question to the Minister: had I known in June that now the second most important city, the second largest city, had fallen, all the alarm bells had ringed and when you then know that the information has gone to the defense, that is that the chief chief of the Danish forces has sent that information back to the defense I still don't know if it has gone to the minister, because the minister cannot answer that, but it certainly hasn't come to us here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143829	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143831	In other words, I note that the rapporteur cannot point to a place where it says that Kabul will now fall by August or within a few weeks. And I think that's all about what those reports can be used for. I also think there is reason for the rapporteur to note that answers have been given by the Defence Intelligence Service saying that they cannot confirm the fact that Jalalabad should have fallen in June. Your information is that Jalalabad falls on 15 August. Does the rapporteur question that statement from the Defence Intelligence Service?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143910-2	It's gonna be tragic. So, these reports contain so much crucial information that the morals of the Afghan army have collapsed, that Afghan soldiers surrender in numbers, that the Taliban monitor NATO forces with drones, and that the second and second most important city throughout the country has fallen to the Taliban. And if I said, well, I don't believe that, I'd say I don't believe the head of the Danish forces. It's quite occult. This has happened to the defense intelligence service, but why is it that we don't get to know it here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143945	The next brief remark is to Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130143949	Thank you. I mean, I agree that you got off to a late start. I also agree that it is really, really important to have a true and fair picture of what is going on in the countries where Denmark is involved militarily. But I'm actually a little puzzled about something. I pointed out throughout the summer that now was the time to do something. I thought it was very clear that things were falling apart completely in Afghanistan. One could not know that Kabul would fall so quickly, but we could see that it went the wrong way, and I really would like to ask: did Conservatives ever take the initiative, for example. in the interpretation circle, where you sit, that more initiatives had to be taken to get people out, or what did you do in that context? And: Would Conservatives have liked to evacuate more people than were already evacuated? Because that's one of the things I think is really important to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144047	Well, I can say in concrete terms that we got a picture presented in the Foreign Policy Name, which was serious, but certainly not at all over there that the second largest and most important city in Afghanistan had fallen that when things started to warm up, also over the summer, and I think I can say this here from the Parliament's speaking chair, I contacted the Foreign Minister, who called me back, and we had a talk about whether there was a need to do more in relation to the picture presented to us in the Foreign Policy Name, and that was not there at the time. Then it went, what, 14 days or three weeks, and then it really started to burst together, and then we were called up. So yes, I acted over the summer, and I was still not told that Jalalabad had fallen, or that it was as bad as our own chief of forces described as early as June, and that is what matters. If we had had that picture presented, I think everyone in the Folketing had thought that this is the time we should react, and not until August. Then I just want to say quite briefly in relation to the number of evacuees, that this has nothing to do with this. What I am focusing on here is how such crucial intelligence has gone to the defense without the Minister being able to answer whether she has been told or why we have not been told in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144149	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144151	It has something to do with what Conservatives think, because when Conservatives say they would have liked to have shown this earlier, the question is why you should know if you weren't going to act on it. That's what this is all about. Well, I thought it was very clear that it was bursting together, and that is why we called for the evacuations to begin earlier. I would like to know now: would Conservatives actually like to have evacuated more people than it did, and would Conservatives, moreover, support the fact that a proper investigation of the Afghanistan war is being carried out, which will also contain this intelligence image? Because it is also on the surface, one can say that we are going to do that. So is that something that Conservatives are going to support?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144231-2	Quite frankly, it is not a particularly critical support party that we have for the government. We have asked for an impartial investigation into the collapse of Afghanistan, and what does Enhedslisten do, what does the SF do, and what does Radicals do? You support the government's own investigation of itself. Well, you can't take that seriously. And then the questioner asks whether we from Conservatives want a thorough investigation. Yes, we want an independent investigation and not one in which the government is just investigating itself honestly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144301	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144305	I would just like to point out that KD does not belong to the government's support parties in any way. On the contrary, we actually have Mr. Marcus Knuth's party leader in the binoculars compared to being a particularly suitable potential prime minister candidate. But I have to say that I am sick and tired of the fact that bourgeois Denmark can't do anything but turkey hunting, turkey hunting, turkey hunting at government ministers, instead of presenting some political vision. That is the picture that remains. I think that if you ask out in public, that's what it is. In other words, there are many of us who had no doubt that the situation was serious during the summer. At any rate, it was not at all at the last negotiating meetings. Whether it was one day or the other that things fell, we knew that the situation was serious. I'd just like to have Mr. Knox back there. Marcus Knuth will confirm that Mr. Marcus Knuth was very concerned about the whole process being carried out locally, that we should not have the mass evacuation, that protection should take place in the vicinity, and that Conservatives, moreover, did not want the text of the agreement to commit themselves to taking up their NATO and EU quotas.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144429	I'm glad to hear that sir. Jens Rohde is enlightened much earlier than the rest of us, at a much higher level than the rest of us. I don't know if this has anything to do with a connection to higher powers. But when we go back to early summer, the picture that was presented was not the picture that appeared in the weekly reports. That's the way it is. When we reached 9 August, the picture presented by the Defence Intelligence Service was that Kabul, the country's largest city, would most likely not fall within the current year. At that time we had not been told that the country's second largest city, vital to maintaining security in Kabul, had fallen 2 months before 2 months earlier! We weren't told. Apparently, Mr. Jens Rohde, that it was a lot better than the photo we got on August 9th. I certainly didn't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144521	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144522	I don't think so. That is perhaps because Mrs Eva Flyvholm has the name that she also has relations with higher powers. I don't know. That is such a lame comment rather than answering the question I am asking. Marcus Knuth. Is it true that the Conservative People's Party was preoccupied with the fact that the proceedings were to be individual and were to take place locally, that protection was to take place in the neighbourhood and that Conservatives did not want us to commit ourselves to NATO and the EU quota? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144601	In relation to the latter, there is a very clear agreement that we were involved in. And now we can see that we have evacuated over 1,100 people, I think, since the rapporteur so much wants to focus on it. And so it happened with our support. But as regards knowing what was up and down in it, I would say that the picture presented to us on 9 August was what we acted on politically. And then it may be that sir... Jens Rohde had a completely different understanding of the situation in Afghanistan, which I certainly did not have. I acted on the basis of what we were told by the country's Minister of Defence, the country's Foreign Minister and the Defence Intelligence Service, and that was not the picture that Denmark's Chief of Staff already presented back in mid-June.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144640	The next brief remark is on Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144644	Thank you. I share the surprise that Conservatives do not think that the general picture that we saw in the media and in organisations and elsewhere gave rise to evacuation, but that it was precisely the weekly reports that were needed to assess it, since we were some who said very early that we thought we should get out of there. But if we now buy the premise that the evacuation in the eyes of Conservatives should actually have been started much earlier we just lacked the weekly reports, then it would have been decided to do so, then I would like to hear Conservatives agree, when we talk about the evacuation of the embassy, our local staff, that it is a decision that really lies with the Secretary of State and not with the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144739	I am not quite sure where the rapporteur is going with this, but everything else is equal, among other things. the Danish soldiers on the ground, who, after all, were there until mid-June, drawing up the picture that goes back to the intelligence service, and the picture that surely also went to the Foreign Minister. Yes, we are also critical of the Secretary of State. We have asked for access to the reports that have gone from the embassy from the defense left Kabul in mid-June until the collapse in August. In relation to the Foreign Minister, the small eight weeks are a complete black hole where we do not know what the Minister has been informed of. But we know that these week reports, which after all were sent home, now make the rapporteur sound like some small indifference to the information of the top Danish chief in Afghanistan to the defense, but which never got in here. That's what's so highly critical. And, frankly, I think it is irresponsible of the government's support parties to start talking about how many people should have been evacuated and one thing and the other. That's not what I'm talking about. I am referring to the fact that Parliament should have been informed as early as June, and the Folketing was not.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144839	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144841	Yes, but what I am talking about, of course, is that it is the intelligence material, the overall assessment in which these weekly reports have been made. After all, it has also reached the Foreign Minister, who has had the decision-making power to make this evacuation, at least when we talk about the embassy and our local staff. So I wonder a little bit why the Minister of Defence has been so quick to resign, at least if it is the late evacuation that Conservatives are concerned about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144912	I do not know whether I hear the rapporteur correctly if I hear the rapporteur say that one of the government's support parties now believes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should resign. That would certainly be interesting. But all the other things being equal, this information was obtained under the authority of the defense and sent back from Kabul by the head of the Danish force from the defense to the defense. So everything else is equal to that which we see the arrow pointing first. However, as I have said, we are just as interested in knowing what has been in the reports from the Danish embassy sent back between June and August. We just haven't gotten them yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130144945	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Mogens Jensen of the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145000	Let me start by saying that, frankly, I find it very difficult to see the need for today's question simply because the questions that have been asked here have been asked and also eventually answered countless times in countless consultations. And yes, let's just use a good old popular expression, like Mr. Jens Rohde used: This is simply turkey hunting; you go after the person instead of after the ball. For the answer to the question asked is given: The weekly reports from the Danish force in Kabul have not entered the Minister of Defence directly, but they have of course been concluded as part of the overall intelligence base provided by the Defence Intelligence Service. That is logical: you collect different sources, and it gives a complete picture. The intelligence service has, of course, been following developments in Afghanistan all along, and the Folketing has also been informed of the situation on an ongoing basis. Of course, the Minister has had confidence in this, just like all her predecessors. And that is fully in line with previous practice under the previous government, as I think the questioners are also fully aware. So there's nothing new here under the sun. On Monday 9 August, the Defence Intelligence Service informed the Folketing and the Government that it was considered less likely that Kabul would fall by the end of 2021. However, as you know, the Taliban already took Kabul on Sunday 15 August to a great surprise for Denmark as for our allies. And here I would like to emphasise once again that nothing in the weekly reports, and I have also read them, says that it is expected that Kabul will fall into the hands of the Taliban before the end of the year. The weekly reports clearly describe a worrying development in the security situation in Afghanistan, and that is also what is shown by the overall intelligence image of the Defence Intelligence Service: a worrying, uncertain, unstable situation. Defence Intelligence itself indicated that their assessment regarding the speed of Taliban conquest of Kabul was far too optimistic. In my view, however, this does not alter the fact that the intelligence services' assessment is, of course, the best possible basis for knowledge and action available as a politician. And in the Social Democratic Party we have full confidence in the Defence Intelligence Service, which is making an invaluable effort for the benefit of the Danes security. Overall, of course, we believe that the process of Denmark's withdrawal and evacuation will have to call for a thorough and serious reflection. And that is also why we are now working on an evaluation across all relevant authorities that have been involved in this whole process. And on the basis of a survey of this, we are studying both the planning of the withdrawal as well as the intelligence image and the preparedness with the involvement of an external reference group as well. The aim is, of course, that we draw the learning needed to ensure that in future the authorities are best equipped to solve similar crisis tasks, and we look forward to completing this evaluation. And regardless of that, I think there is great reason to stress that the Danish soldiers and authorities provided an enormously dedicated and professional effort during the evacuation of Afghanistan, which deserves great respect and recognition. And in those words, I would like to read out a text for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government relies on the Defence Intelligence Service in assessing threats and the security situation abroad. Defence Intelligence assessments are based on a broad intelligence base, where defence reporting is included as one of several elements in the basis for intelligence service assessments. On 9 August 2021, the Defence Intelligence Service informed Parliament's parties in the interpretation contract circle that the service considered it less likely that Kabul would fall by the end of 2021. The Danish Parliament notes that the forthcoming Authority Evaluation is expected to identify relevant learning points. V 15) Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145502	Thank you. The proposal for adoption here will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145512	Thank you, President. The effort in Afghanistan is the largest military effort Denmark has been engaged in over the last 20 years. When the top Danish head of the Danish forces sends the last report back to the defence with such striking conclusions as are here and which were not passed on to the Folketing, does the rapporteur really believe that this should have no consequences for the minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145542	So, as has been said many times now, these weekly reports are not available and they have not done so in the past. They go to the Defence Intelligence Service, which takes the witness reports, the information that comes from there, and groups them together with other types of information they receive, among other things. from other intelligence services. From there, a comprehensive picture is made, a comprehensive report that goes to the Minister for Defence, and it is also the one that forms the basis for the orientation of the Minister for Defence. So that's how it works, so you don't just have a piece in the puzzle, but you have the total puzzle. As we can see, there have been major misassessments here, and this is not just about the Defence Intelligence Service; unfortunately, it is about all the intelligence services involved in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145636	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145637	Then I should just like to confirm that the rapporteur does not think it would have been appropriate for Parliament to be informed as early as June that the morale of the Afghan security forces was continuing to decline and was gradually reaching a critical level. We were not told this and that the provincial capital of Jalalabad, the second most important city in Afghanistan, in Nangarhar, was now under the control of the Taliban. We weren't told that either. Thus Kabul was another step closer to being isolated. We weren't told that either. Is this information that had not been relevant to the Folketing to obtain?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145711	Yes, but the Folketing in principle needs to obtain all types of information. There are reports of all sorts of things in other ministerial areas as well. Of course it is relevant information, but it is also information that needs to be seen in the context of the other intelligence that you get. That is why it is the overall picture that has been made in the briefings of both the Minister and the Danish Parliament in the Defence Intelligence Service. I have to arrest it with Jalalabad falling in mid-June. So it is not information that the Defence Intelligence Service has been able to validate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145750	The next brief remark is on Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145755	Thank you. I have a simple question and it is not certain that the rapporteur can answer. Our opinion and that of many other parties is that the evacuation took place too late. I assume that the government shares that view, but the rapporteur can reply to that and, in the event that the rapporteur shares that view, when should we have evacuated? This is, of course, a slightly larger and more complex question, but when should we have actually pressed the button if things had gone smoothly in the eyes of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145839	It is clear that this is not only true for Denmark, but for everyone who was in Afghanistan it has been a challenge that things came to pass as quickly as they did, across all the information and intelligence that we received. On the basis of the fact that this was the case, I think that we managed to act quickly and decisively, and we can only thank the authorities involved for the outcome of the evacuation that was carried out in a sensible manner. Well, I am now a defence rapporteur, and it is the Minister for Defence that we are having a question debate, and it has to be said that what the Minister for Defence was responsible for in relation to the evacuation, namely the evacuation of the Danish forces, was over on 22 June, well before Kabul fell.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145930	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130145932	Yes, and I really think that this is a very important distinction made by the rapporteur here. Well, the evacuation of the embassy and the local staff is something other than the evacuation of our forces. I often find that missing in the debate. But could it be that, if this had been done a little more calmly, it should have actually started the evacuation before the summer holidays, when we had the first discussions, perhaps in fact at the same time as France or something similar? Have any thought been given to this in the government already?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150006	So, I think we all benefit from the fact that, of course, we are now waiting for the evaluation to come. This also applies to the evaluation initiated under the coalition, because everyone, including NATO, can see that this was a very bad outcome. So before we can draw any conclusions, I think we should have that evaluation. But again, the Danish forces for which the Secretary of Defense was responsible were out on 22 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150040	The next brief remark is to Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150042	I think it is very clear that not only in the final phase, but also for many years of the Afghanistan war, there has been such a tendency to estimate the efforts made in Afghanistan and not to shed much light on the problems that existed, for example. In addition, the Afghan security forces are more competent than they have actually been. And we have known for many years about these problems, both in terms of corruption and in terms of lack of loyalty. We also saw some of the same problems in Iraq, with the forces that were built there. In view of this, I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur: is there not a certain probability that there has also been an interest, particularly on the American side, but also on the other countries of the coalition, in speaking the Afghan security forces and the situation in Afghanistan better than it really was, because one would like to communicate a success story politically, even if the military reality looked different? Isn't there a risk that it has also played a part?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150152	I would like to say in general terms about our whole commitment and involvement in Afghanistan that it is true that many people have spoken down, and with the result that we have now said it was a wasted effort, and that view does not share Social Democracy. We believe that it was absolutely right to go into Afghanistan to stop terrorism and to stop the spread of ideology and undemocratic forces and attacks on the population, and we also believe that the efforts have shown results in terms of the improvements that have, after all, been made to the civilian population during the period we have been there. However, it is true that what we see here as the end result can none of us be satisfied with, but I am starting from the point of view that in relation to what picture was drawn of the situation in Afghanistan, it was finally also drawn up here as very critical, uncertain and unstable in the picture presented to us here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150302	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150303	So, first of all, I have to say to the rapporteur that it is not the case that the terrorist threat in Afghanistan has been removed. Both al-Qaeda and all sorts of others are still very much absent, so I think it is important not to repeat the wrong information. But what this is all about here is, and it has to be distinguished from the fact that there may have been a political interest, both among the Americans and also among the other countries that have entered into the coalition, in producing, for example, a political interest. the Afghan security forces as better and more robust than they actually were. I think that has been very symptomatic throughout and I would really like to hear from the rapporteur whether there can be some truth in that. Because that's one of the things that's important to have a look at now, actually.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150344	First of all, I think I did not say that we had the terror removed from Afghanistan. Unfortunately, we do not have that, but that was the purpose of entering, and it has also produced some results in that direction. In fact, I do not dare to make a suggestion as to whether anyone has tried to draw a better picture of the state of the security forces or Afghan defence, but I have to say that it was appalling to see how miserable it was when the Taliban moved forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150421	The next brief remark is to Mark Grossmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150422	Thank you. It's nice to see that Mr. Mogens Jensen answers so nicely when Enhedslisten asks the questions. However, I would like to ask the Social Democratic Defence Rapporteur whether he is more concerned now about the definition we heard earlier from the Minister for Defence about the overall picture, when we now hear how things stand in Afghanistan at the moment. Are you comfortable with the overall picture, or maybe we should upgrade the week reports a little bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150455	I did not quite understand the rapporteur's introduction. Did that mean that I should answer ugly now that it's the Left asking? I'd never dream of that. Well, I'm a nice match to every party I'm trying to do. It is quite clear that when we look at the intelligence which has led us to get the assessment we have received, both from the Defence Intelligence Service and also from many other intelligence services, it has to be said that in the evaluation now under way there must be some explanation as to how it could be so far from what was actually the truth. I think we are all looking for answers to this, and I also hope that, on the one hand, the evaluation carried out in the Defence Intelligence Service itself, but, on the other hand, those carried out in the other intelligence services will provide us with some answers to that, because we all need to be able to make better efforts in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150555	Sir. Mark Grossmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150556	Thank you. I am also asking only because we need to be able to put forward a strategy in the future, because when there is some information that we have to respond to, we have a great need to know where it comes from, i.e. whether it is just an overall picture or whether it is via week reports and where it originally comes from. Because there have been a great many discussions about this, including in the open consultations, and I know that Mogens Jensen himself has been there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150624	But there I can only agree that we, too, as political decision-makers, and that, whether you are a minister or you are a parliamentarian, must have as accurate information as possible. But it is also clear that when we talk about a situation like this, there are several sources of that information, and there are not just one source, however serious the statements from those sources. As I said, I have read the weekly reports which are the subject of the question debate here, and I have to say that there is no point in the week reports concluding or saying that it is right now, within weeks of August, that Kabul is falling.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150712	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150715	That is correct, but from a historical point of view, perhaps we should consider whether the way in which we get our intelligence together is really connected, and we could have learned a little from that already from the Iraq war, I would like to tell you where what we met with was so flawed. But I hope that we can learn from that from the future; I will come back to that when the minister is on stage, I almost said on the platform. I cannot help not having the impression that, when you did not get started before acting on the part of the government, what I still think is highly dubious, it was very much because you are so afraid of losing the perception of yourself as hard on the foreign policy of the population. Has it been shot right next door, sir? Mogens Jensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150822	Once again, this is a question in which the Minister for Defence has been called and we are discussing weekly reports, and with regard to the whole preparation of the military, defence, evacuation of troops from Afghanistan, it is clear that it was over on 22 June. So that assignment was completed on June 22nd. Then it is true that then you had the embassy and people around it back, and there was the starting point, of course, that you wanted the embassy to be there as long as possible, in relation to the many development projects and various forms of assistance we have provided in Afghanistan, could continue as long as possible. It has certainly made that part of the evacuation come later in the process, and I think we have to understand that, of course, compared to the fact that we did not know that Kabul would fall so quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150925	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130150927	Mrs Flyvholm has, of course, explained how she has made contact with the government herself and asked whether anything should happen soon, and that was also part of the public debate. That is why one can only wonder why the government was so long-suffering to take action and, in my view, perhaps more concerned that there should now be a very, very broad settlement with all parties on board so that afterward one could not be accused of conducting a lenient alien policy. It was like there was this backdrop all the time during these negotiations, and that's why I'm asking if Mr. Mogens Jensen will reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151009	At any rate, I have no doubt that if the government had been given information such as that which we were then given far too late that Kabul would fall as early as it did, then this whole evacuation effort would of course have been organised in a different way. This did not happen because we got the information as late as we did and Kabul fell as early as it did, and that is what we will then have to find out how to do better in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151042	Thank you, sir. Mogens Jensen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Mark Grossmann. Welcome to the platform for the first time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151105	First of all, I would like to thank Conservatives for raising this question debate. It is important and preventive. Left and Conservatives have been united in raising the debate on evacuation in Afghanistan and in relation to the very dramatic and chaotic process leading up to evacuation. I would like to thank you for that cooperation. We have put written questions to the Minister and have had the Minister on several occasions in consultation on the matter. For the Left, it has been important to discuss the situation because we have seen it as highly critical. At the same time, however, it is our impression that the seriousness does not really seem to have dawned on the Minister. I've been browsing a few mail correspondences and picking up a single one. In an answer to the Left's defence rapporteur, Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt, on 23 September, writes the Minister: The Ministry of Defence can confirm that it has not been the practice of the Defence Command to forward the weekly reports from Afghanistan to the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry can also confirm that the weekly report in question of 16 June is still not received by the Department. The Minister concludes with the answer: and that does not change the fact that the Ministry of Defence has based itself on the assessments of the Defence Intelligence Service in relation to the security situation and the threat picture. Those answers have been repeated on several occasions by the Minister, among others. in the consultations convened by the Minister concerning the evacuation in Afghanistan. However, as we have reassured her, the Minister has now come to the realization that the weekly reports have actually been included in the overall security and threat assessment by the Defence Intelligence Service, which also underlines why I asked about this before. Defense Intelligence is responsible for assessing the security situation and the threat picture. They must prevent and counteract threats to Denmark and Danish interests. They do this by obtaining, analysing and disseminating information about conditions abroad that are important for Denmark and not least Denmark's interests. In the Left, we have full confidence in FE's intelligence work. However, we can be critical of whether the Minister has understood the seriousness of the FE's intelligence and threat image. How else could it happen that the Minister was not aware of a summary of the content of the weekly reports by the Danish Chief of Force in Kabul, especially when the weekly reports showed that the situation described a much more critical situation than the one presented by the Minister to Parliament's parties? It basically worries the Left when such essential information from the weekly reports is lost between the FE and the Ministry of Defence. Information such as this from the weekly report of 16 June outlines the seriousness of the situation and here I quote: developments in Afghanistan are worrying. The Afghan army is challenged on virtually all parameters, and the Taliban is gaining ground. There are constant reports of the Afghan army leaving without a fight. The security situation in the country is strongly challenged. Furthermore, the same weekly report shows that Jalalabad, the second largest city in Afghanistan, had fallen. That such information had not arrived at the Folketing at the time, we find it very worrying, because it is therefore the responsibility of the Minister that such information be communicated to the Folketing so that the situation can be taken into account from there. It must never be through public access that we in the Folketing receive such information. We should not act on the basis of public access to documents; we should be at the forefront. The process hasn't been good enough. This is by no means due to the employees of the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They made exemplary efforts during the evacuation of Afghanistan, particularly in view of the chaotic situation. The arrow points to the minister, and that should give rise to self-examination. For the Left, it is crucial that we learn from the situation and have a thorough discussion on how to be better equipped in a similar situation in the future, as weekly reports from Danish sent forces in an unstable country must of course reach the Secretary of Defense, especially when it comes to Danes and Denmark's security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151553	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It's first Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151559	Thank you. I would actually like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, Michael Aastrup Jensen, on being with me during the summer, some of those who actually called for us to act more quickly. So in this way I think we disagreed about seeing that something had to be done. But what had to be done was not as agreed. I think that the evacuations should be speeded up quickly, and I could not really get Michael Aastrup Jensen to be a hero at that time. And that is also what I would like to ask the rapporteur, because I think it is important that we should be better equipped for the future, also that we should get better information: would the Left have liked to evacuate some more from Afghanistan? And also: we are now discussing whether we should not have one, not an evaluation of it here, but an explanation of the whole course of Afghanistan in order to be able to learn from the war there too. Will the Left back the fact that such an impartial historical statement is being made?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151713	Well, well, we support everything that can ensure Denmark's security and that can secure the countries that we have had an influence on with regard to interpreters, as Enhedslisten also mentioned before. It is clear that security is not only about Danish forces • It is also about the people who have supported Denmark in the role. That is also why, as early as 26 July, the Left was out as some of the first, if not the first, it was a political act that was about being at the forefront as soon as possible. It was not a question of going after any minister, neither a foreign minister nor a defence minister, but it was about securing the people who had supported Denmark. So one can say, of the momentum that the Left had at that time, made very, very clear where we stood.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151802	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151803	I just don't think it answers my question that clearly. Would the Left have liked us to evacuate more than was done? I would have liked to see that, for example. I think that the interpretation agreement was maintained for too long. I think that there were both NGOs and some interpreters who could have been out and who still have the opportunity to do so. And will the Left back the fact that such an impartial account is being made of the whole course of the Afghanistan war, which is actually one of the things we are discussing now. I think it would be really nice if the Left would back it up, so I just want to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151837	So, in relation to interpreters and the people who helped Denmark, we were at the forefront, and no number was put on. The left was very, very clear, in terms of how we should help, and what will be able to help with • and no number has been set at that time. I simply do not understand that Enhedslisten is talking about the number of people we need to help. Enhedslisten talks about numbers. That's not what we're talking about here at all. In relation to an impartial statement, I would say that we are for everything that can save lives and for anything that can prevent. Well, for the Left, it's not about chasing a minister. I know that's not what you've been talking about; you've been talking about turkey hunting and I heard Jens Rohde mention it before. I think it's unspeakable to talk about turkey hunting, because that's not what this is all about. This is about being at the forefront. The left is on the platform today because we want to be at the forefront. And when we talk about the fact that we want to be responsible in the Left, it is about the fact that the information we receive loyally as members of parliament is what we act on. So we act on the basis of the information we get.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151932	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151937	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur, who, in his rapporteur's speech, also attaches great importance to these weekly reports. So I would also like to ask the rapporteur: how exactly do the weekly reports state that the Chief of Staff considers that the Taliban will fall within a short period of time, in other words within weeks or in August, as happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130151959	When Mogens Jensen asks for it to be mentioned precisely, I have to say that the provincial capital of Jalalabad in Nangarhar, the neighbouring province east of Kabul, is now under the control of the Taliban. Thus Kabul is another step closer to being isolated. I think that is a very clear speech, and it is, after all, the Danish head of the forces who, on 16 June, are reporting this out, and it is like where we in the Left say that we think it is very serious, and I have also made it very clear that we as politicians should not sit and define how serious it is. We just have to say that this is at least out of control, and that is why we are simply saying that, once you have a reaction on 15 August, then too long has gone by. And what's the whole message in this is that when it's as clear and clear as it does here and I can also deliver the letter to Mogens Jensen, and then he can read after himself, it's not just something I'm standing here reading out of my own handwriting, so can say that it's sharpening, and we have some dates that are in contrast to each other. Well, in a war situation like this, which ends in such chaotic conditions, two months is too much. But it's not a matter of chasing a minister. It's a matter of us just learning from these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152112	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152113	I have also read the weekly reports, and I understand that the rapporteur agrees with me that nowhere does it say that the Chief of Staff considers Kabul to fall within a short period of time or in August, as happened then. So it's fine that we agree on that. The second question is: can the rapporteur confirm that all other intelligence services were as optimistic as the Danish in assessing when Kabul would fall, in other words that they considered that it would not by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152153	It may be that I embrace widely and that I can also embrace other intelligence services, but it is about being concrete from the information we get and which we have to work for as members of parliament. And in relation to the text that Mogens Jensen is talking about, perhaps it is not about Kabul having fallen: no, but it is very clear that Nangarhar is under the control of the Taliban, and already there you have to start to wake up and say that we are now facing challenges that may escalate. And I would just like to say that for us, no matter how hard we try to talk about other intelligence services and swap the words a little, this is something we should get on our toes for, and it should actually be for Mogens Jensen and the Social Democrats too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152236	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152239	Congratulations on the debut on the platform. Thank you). Is it spoken in German: Mr. Grossmann? In any case, congratulations on the debut on the platform. The rapporteur of the Left says that it is irresponsible when I stand and say turkey hunting, but I think there are many people who may just think that things are going a little fast at the moment, and I do not know whether the rapporteur of the Left disagrees with Mr Tugendhat. Marcus Knuth, when Mr. Marcus Knuth wants the Minister to be distrusted and that this should have consequences for the Minister. After all, I cannot read that as anything other than the use of the mushroom method to the minister in office. But maybe the Left doesn't agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152334	Well, the Left hasn't used the term distrust.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152341	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152342	No, no, but we just note that the rapporteur for the questioners wanted there to be consequences. At least that is how I heard the speech, that is to say that there should be consequences for the Minister. And what the consequences are, of course, must remain uncertain, but one can then argue about that oneself internally. So I don't recognize with all due respect the picture that the Left just from July 28 felt that everything had to be done. Because I was part of the process myself, and I heard the Left standing cargo and bursting with Conservatives in the desire for individual treatment to take place locally, and if it was possible to provide protection in the vicinity, it should be done there, and not through mass evacuations. It didn't come until later.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152439	So, an individual treatment is what you do, if you have to define a situation that is aggravating, then you have to find out what is for some people who have helped Denmark. Again: I didn't say anything until I said otherwise, and I actually think this is Jens Rohde. Well, we're gonna have to go inside and see what kind of people have helped us. It may well be that you have a wish that we say that we have no assessment of how many of them are involved, so let's just say 1,000 people from a particular area who may have helped the Danish forces. It doesn't work that way. It's been mapped out who's been helping, but that thing, that time. Well, it takes time to rationalize in relation to what some people have helped us with and what they have helped us with. We're not supposed to be crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152519	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Speaking time has come to an end and there are no more brief comments. I can therefore welcome the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130152536	Thank you very much. I feel well represented in relation to what my blue friends have said, perhaps just apart from Mr. Jens Rohde. I don't think that's a good custom, sir. Jens Rohde, to start telling us what has come out of words in a proposal for adoption, because that is not usually done. Sir. Jens Rohde used the term distrust, and I don't know where he gets it from, but it's not fair to me. I would rather talk about the evacuation from Afghanistan in such a way that I will somehow try to evaluate what I think has been the problem in the efforts we have made. We will have a report in due course evaluating the war, including the evacuation, hopefully, and we look forward to it. However, since we have received reports from various governments throughout the 20-year period, both in the UPN and in the Defence Committee month after month, we should have already formed a fairly good picture of the long, tragic course. In the DF we have no doubt that the main cause of defeat is that we and our allies have been concerned at the same time with wanting to walk on two feet, in other words wage war and, at the same time, run a democratic mission in a people who would very much like to be free of democracy. We thought that with a huge civil effort and at the same time by adding billions to the new regime in Afghanistan, we would win hearts and minds. The first few years after 9-11, everything was about defeating the enemies of Al-Qaeda and the Taliban and getting their hands on Osama bin Laden, but soon our presence changed character, and it could be said that when we had destroyed a bridge, we immediately started building a new one in the same place. At the same time, we endowed thousands of dubious Afghans with money and power, and as long as they were able to pronounce the word democracy enthusiastically, all our money boxes were opened. They were, moreover, mostly a number of local warlords whose main purpose was to scrape money together for themselves. By the way, they were called optimistic and healthy away defenders of democracy. At the same time, we decided that there should be national elections in Afghanistan, which were then held regularly and each time was pure farce. We thought that the Afghans are as enthusiastic about democracy as we are, we repressed the fact that a large part of the Afghan population despises the West and our democratic systems, which they regard as weak. They giggled behind our backs while their leaders filled the bank books from a seemingly inexhaustible source. We started modernising the country's infrastructure, and we set up schools at the same time as we set out to equip and train a huge army. Nearly 300,000 men were to take up the fight against the Taliban, their equipment was the best of the best, not just small arms, grenades and missiles, but also tanks and planes. In addition, the entire army was paid. When it came down to it, the soldiers showed what they were made of. When a handful of Toyota pickups came roaring towards Kabul, they rushed to throw everything they had in their hands. The fact that most Muslim countries on this earth do not want our democracy introduced can, as I said, be difficult, indeed traumatic, for us to understand, but that is the way it is. If the West, as we saw in Egypt, for example, after Mubarak's fall, insists that parliamentary elections should be held, yes, then of course it ended up with a victory for the Muslim brotherhood. The voters used their voting rights to choose Islamist dictatorship. What a dilemma for us. Happily, the Egyptian Western-oriented army leadership decided to put an end to the Islamists, and thank you very much for that. We have learned the lesson, and that is why we must now choose: do we want full democracy with the certainty that the Islamists will win the votes, or do we want secular dictators who are oriented towards the West and with whom we have militarily cooperated and lived in peaceful coexistence? I know what I prefer. I would add that I believe that, with regard to our military involvement in the Sahel region, we have now taken the first steps towards everything we did not want with Afghanistan. We now have special forces, some of them even in Mali, which underlines that the situation in Mali is getting worse and worse. So instead of saying goodbye and leaving the area to France, which has a colonial history there, we step up. Finally, if I have misunderstood Mr. Jens Rohde, I will be very pleased to be lectured, and then I regret what has been said from the platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153018	Thank you to the rapporteur. This can probably be clarified; it will become apparent. In any case, there is a request for a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153026	I have never referred to a paper. I have referred to the interpretation I derive from Mr. Marcus Knuth's rapporteur speech, and I made that very explicit. I take it that Mr. Marcus Knuth, in his approach to the support parties, says that it must now have consequences for the Minister. I cannot interpret such a consequence as anything other than mistrust, and that is the framework in which I put it. I haven't had time to deal with the other one at all. I just want to make that clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153106	But consequences can be many things. It can be anything from small noses to a little bigger noses and even bigger noses... Pinocchionæses to mistrust, which is more regarded as the ultimate, namely, as a requirement for a minister or a government to resign. But I understand that it was not Jens Rohde's intention that this should be understood in this way. So I may have taken my mouth too full, and I regret that, as I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153130	Sir. Jens Rohde for another comment? No. Then the next brief comment to be made on Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153138	Thank you. It is no secret that SF and the Danish People's Party look very differently at the need for the evacuation that we are talking about here. I would like the rapporteur to deal with the interpretation agreement that Enhedslisten has brought up a few times in this debate. The Danish People's Party was out to say that, in the opinion of the Danish People's Party, the interpretation agreement should be dealt with in the vicinity. Of course, we did not agree with that. However, does the rapporteur perhaps think that it would have been difficult and perhaps even impossible to do so in this way when the interpreters were finally taken out?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153223	I do not think we were included in the interpretation agreement, but it does not matter in this context. I think it was essential to say that it was certainly mentioned by Mrs Flyvholm too, and it was asked whether we wanted more. However, I believe that the very fact that so many people came to Denmark as they actually did was due to the fact that there was no time to do a proper procedure. That is why we did not get 40 or 50, as was said first, but perhaps more than a thousand, and perhaps even some have not yet signed up. That is the danger when you have to go through something instead of having plenty of time to do it, which you could have had if you had started the evacuation at an earlier time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153304	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153306	After all, we agree that we should have been doing so earlier and in a better way. We are in complete agreement on this. However, I noted, even though the Danish People's Party is not included in the agreement, that it was said that the procedure should take place in the vicinity. In the case of the SF, given the situation, it seems completely impossible to implement. My question is actually simply whether the rapporteur has the same recognition or whether he would have liked to have seen the case dealt with in the neighbourhood and whether he would still have recommended it to this day, even if the situation developed as it did.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153341-2	If you had got started earlier, it would easily have been possible. But at the moment when it was all panicky, it is clear that some people were brought to Denmark, which we should not have brought with us at all. We got, among other things. I think that we would have avoided this if we had started the evacuation long before, as I believe there were some states that did. I believe that Canada has been mentioned as one of those countries. But when we get such people home to Denmark, who have no entitlement to Denmark at all, and when we don't even spot it at the airport, there's something wrong. You should have had a list of that right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153421	The next brief remark is to Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153423	It is just to clarify what are the facts: Is it not quite correct that the Danish People's Party did not really want there to be any evacuations? So, the Danish People's Party said: No, we do not want to evacuate interpreters etc., they must stay down there. Nor would the Danish People's Party pay for the planes that flew. So the Danish People's Party just to get it confirmed... didn't want any evacuations at all. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153456	Well, of course, our embassy people and our diplomats should be helped out of the country as quickly as possible. But yes, it is quite right that we think so with regard to the interpreters who have been, the staff of various embassies, the local people, some who have provided supplies, etc., the local baker, the merchant, and what do I know? After all, they have delivered to the Danish troops; some of them have sought a position and got it, and there they must also have known that this could at some point be problematic. We have had these discussions before, including in relation to Iraq. I remember that very clearly and, of course, we are not going into that discussion again. If they seek office with the occupying troops, as they saw, then they must also take the consequences of what might happen to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153545	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153547	My impression has been that the Danish People's Party did not want to evacuate anyone. At least you wouldn't pay for the planes, and you wouldn't be part of the agreement that was behind the evacuation. But now the rapporteur says that one would like to have evacuated the embassy staff that was not the impression I had. I just think it seems strange to criticise the government for not having acted more quickly with the evacuation, when in fact, basically, the Danish People's Party has been very clear in the spit, I would say, compared to many others and has said: we do not really want people to be evacuated and we will not even pay for the planes that have to fly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153621	An evacuation plan can now be laid down if it is a whole year before that. You can easily make a plan about what kind of people we need to get to Denmark and help in, no matter when it's in the process. We knew that there had to be a time when the Taliban were so dominant in Afghanistan that it could end badly. And that you don't already start to get names on it in good time, so you know exactly who's going with the planes is questionable, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153649	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130153708	Thank you. Thank you to Conservatives for taking the initiative in this question debate. I think it is important for us to reverse what has happened in Afghanistan, not only the evacuation that we have been through, which could undoubtedly have been much better, but also all the efforts we have made in Afghanistan in Denmark and the basis on which we did it. I think that is incredibly important. After all, it is no secret that the SF believes that the evacuation in Afghanistan happened all too late. We said this very early and very clearly, in fact even before the summer recess, and several parties did. That is why we are of the opinion that, despite the content of the weekly reports, which later became clear to the rapporteur, it could have been assessed, at least if it were up to us, that the evacuation should have been initiated earlier. I think it is incredibly important that we learn some of the mistakes that have been made in this evacuation. It is obvious to us that we are again dealing with assessments by the intelligence services which prove to be failing. This is not the first time that we have been in this situation, and it is also true that it is not only the Danish intelligence service which, in connection with the evacuation of Kabul and Afghanistan, had an overly optimistic idea of when the city would fall. That is something that has been made international mistakes in assessing. And that's what we need to learn from. It's not the first time. We also saw it in relation to Iraq, and we have seen it at other times, in other words that the intelligence services' assessments could be better. The question is, how are we gonna make it happen? After all, we have launched an evaluation which we in the SF look forward to hearing the content of. And it is also our view that the secret services should actually ask themselves the question, if not, for example. such things as the content of weekly reports should have weighed heavier. Having said that, however, we also believe that the military operation itself and the withdrawal of the Danish forces, unlike the evacuation of our local staff and our embassy staff, were actually going quite well. We are concerned that the decision was taken so late, both by the Minister for Defence and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, we do not believe that the chasing, which there, perhaps especially by Conservatives, is on the Secretary of Defense, is worthy of this forum. I feel like we should have evacuated some more. There was no support for this among many of the rapporteurs on this side of the House when we had the discussions. And I find it striking that, as in the past, there is a feeling that something is at stake other than the intelligence services' assessment. There was a political consideration in space that we did not share and that several other parties did not share, but that went on something other than what was going on in Kabul, for example. a desire not to pick up other people from other countries and with a different skin color into Denmark and that is under all criticism. This must not happen when we are in crisis situations like the one we were in with the evacuation. That's why we want you to learn from this process. Together with the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Christian Democrats, we have the following proposals for adoption, which I shall now read out: Proposal for adoption: Parliament expresses its great appreciation of the authorities' evacuation efforts from Kabul in August 2021. At the same time, the Danish Parliament expresses its incomprehension that the government launched the evacuation so late in spite of numerous warnings, and considers it critical if foreign policy considerations have contributed to this. The Danish Parliament would also have liked the political circle behind the evacuation to have been able to reach agreement on offering several of the most vulnerable Afghan employees in Danish civil nuclear projects assistance for evacuation in the autumn of 2021, which is still needed and possible. At the same time, the Folketing looks forward to the publication of the evaluation now launched with the involvement of an external reference group and will discuss necessary learning points against this background in order to ensure rapid and comprehensive evacuation efforts for employees and partners in conflict areas and the possibility of ensuring more accurate assessments by intelligence services. V 16). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130154229	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130154238	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for acknowledging the debate we are raising here and for saying that it is important to have this reversed, that the evacuation took place far too late. We agree with that precisely on the basis of the fact that this information has come forward and that there were flawed intelligence images, etc. However, the rapporteur will not go further than expressing a lack of understanding, I think, were the words to the Minister. After all, the rapporteur has already made a very clear point with the Foreign Minister. After all, it is nothing more than a few months ago that the SF helped to give what is called a nose to Syria, where the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government did not include enough information about security assessments by the Defence Intelligence Service in the autumn of 2020 on the deteriorating conditions in the camps. Why was it that the SF helped to give such a wide-ranging criticism to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for giving incorrect information, but will not criticise the Minister for Defence to the same extent?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130154338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130154340	Firstly, we have launched an evaluation and what it shows can easily give rise to everything from the SF too, but only after we have seen the content of it. Secondly, I do not think that there is any tuxedo gun here. The Secretary of Defense has not, according to his own statement, read the weekly reports. They are included in the overall assessment she has received from the intelligence service, as is the case with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I find it worrying that the evacuation is being initiated so late and that the assessment by the intelligence service was so flawed, but I do not see any breach of the law of ministerial responsibility being committed here. I think we need to wait for the evaluation that has been carried out in order to find out whether such responsibility should be placed. But for now, I don't think it's going to draw on that, at least not if the Secretary of Defense is telling the truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130154436	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130154438	It is of course very interesting to say that if the Secretary of Defense is telling the truth. For first, the Secretary of Defense says: I am not aware of the content of these weekly reports. Then the Secretary of Defense says: Well, they were part of the overall picture. Already there is a tuxedo gun, if that is the expression the rapporteur wants to use. In addition, as the rapporteur of the Left said from the platform, it cannot be right that Parliament should receive such important information through public access to documents. It was therefore the Minister's responsibility to inform the Danish Parliament, so what is the rapporteur's lack of information in order to be able to criticise the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130154510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130154512	Well, we've criticized the Minister. I think Conservatives and SF do it at different levels. We ourselves were also calling for weekly reports to be made available to the Folketing, together with Conservatives. However, at no time have we had any doubt that the weekly reports were part of the overall assessment made by the intelligence service. I think Conservatives have also been aware of this. I also believe that Conservatives, as well as SF, know that everything that is included in the overall assessment does not read either the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Defence. So you can easily learn from this situation, but I do not think there is any basis, for example. to say that a minister must be overthrown.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130154550	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130154603	The evacuation of and from Kabul was an impressive effort on the part of the Danish authorities, where, under extreme conditions, amazingly many people got whole and undamaged out of a focal point in the world. However, we are probably among those who find it difficult to understand why it should take so long for that evacuation to begin. We had no idea from the radical side that it would be so fast in June and July, but as we approached August, it was quite clear. Several chiefs of defense publicly indicated that it was now so fast that we had to expect it to be a matter of days before Kabul fell and we wondered why no decision was taken at that time to prepare for evacuation of the Danish staff and collaborators. Today's question is whether the Secretary of Defense should have seen and made a decision on the basis of a few weekly reports that have come in from the Danish military in Afghanistan at an earlier time. Together with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, we have launched an evaluation which aims to examine precisely this matter and also to examine the basis for the Foreign Minister's decision, not only the weekly reports in question, but also the resolution on which it was based and, at the very least, what took place during these fateful months. When you launch such an evaluation with an external reference group that is allowed to look with and speak on its own behalf, we think it is quite obvious that we are waiting to get that evaluation in hand. It will soon come on the other side of Christmas, as I understand it and then we will decide together whether we think that, in addition to hesitating for a little too long, the government has also withheld information from the Folketing or otherwise behaved in a way that should give rise to criticism. Until we know it, we do not really think it makes sense either to give a nose or something else to some of the existing ministers. It is as simple as that and it is not because we are not critical. It is not that we would not have liked to see, as indicated in our proposal for adoption, that we had also seen some more people out of those who worked for Danish principles and values and core projects. It is not because we do not think there has been any reason to criticise the government in this, but for us things are so connected that we have to take ourselves so seriously that when we get an evaluation, we wait for it before deciding to pass a verdict on the government. That's also why I think I'm just gonna talk on my own behalf... that the reason we've gone along with Enhedslisten and SF to make our own proposal for adoption is that we don't want either, I almost said, to stand with the government at this time before we have the evaluation, or to participate in the Blue Hunt. This is being done as an opposition, that is fair enough, but we want to wait for the evaluation before we take a further position on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130154905	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130154910	Thank you. This gives me hope, and we must cling to it that the three support parties of the government have at least produced your own text of adoption and that, as the rapporteur says, the government's own report is awaited. It may be that something emerges from the report in which the government chooses to criticize itself, but I do not think there will be much, because we saw what happened when an investigation was made of itself in relation to the mink situation. That is why I do not understand why the Radical Left did not support us with blue parties when we said: let us have an independent investigation, not one in which the government investigates itself, but an independent investigation. So, if I may begin with that question, why is it that one clings to a report, a study in which the government investigates itself, rather than going with us to get to the bottom of this, beyond all the things that are so bright on the table already?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130155002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130155003	You can always discuss which tools to use. It was we who came up with the committee of inquiry in the mink case that would not be a committee of inquiry if it were not because our rapporteur at that time, Mr. Jens Rohde, negotiated a new President of the Commission in the Folketing. So we are glad that we have helped to put it in the lake. In this case, we found that the form of investigation used in the 2015 terrorist attack was good. And why did we do that? We did so because we actually thought it was important that the authorities themselves should not have the government, but the authorities were given the opportunity to both contribute and learn from what has happened. But in order to ensure that there were some impartial eyes, we also insisted that there should be an internal reference group with people, for example. from Danish Refugee Aid and others who are down there and who are close to what is going on and that, when the authorities have identified what has happened, they have the opportunity to express their views independently on whether they consider that action was taken quickly enough, whether the decision-making basis was right and so on. So we think it is quite a fine form that we have been given, which allows us to take in the experience of the authorities, but which also has an independent voice.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130155110	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130155112	First of all, I would like to sign for the huge work, both Mr. Jens Rohde and Radical Left did this by setting up the investigation commission. I enjoy it every day, and I mean it with all my heart. So thank you for that. But in relation to this, I am not taking this government's investigations of itself very seriously, not least when the things we criticise the government and especially the Secretary of Defense for not sharing with the Folketing are so clear in these week reports. So now that the Foreign Policy Name, of which the rapporteur himself is chairman, helped to make the criticism of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the lack of intelligence about the camps in Syria, and now that the things for which we criticise the Minister for Defence are already here, why can the rapporteur not back it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130155151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130155152	These are two very different cases. I think that the lack of information on the situation in the camps in Syria, where Danish citizens and children were present, was an extremely serious matter, where it could be said that there was a lack of intelligence. In this case, we are in the process of examining what the basis for the decision was. We have a Minister for Defence who says that she has not been informed that the content of these weekly reports has gone to the intelligence service, and I think that we should now let the authorities work. But let me just say that I have full confidence that in this case the authorities have an interest in putting forward the things that need to be put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130155233	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130155234	Thank you. Now we know who has seen these week reports, or some of it; what was not crossed over that they are being sent to a whole range of institutions, among others. also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, etc., a whole lot, and of course also the Defence Intelligence. And now, sir... Martin Lidegaard used to be Secretary of State. Wouldn't he have wanted to know from Defense Intelligence what was going on? Was it a negligence on the part of the defense intelligence service if we now consider that the minister knew nothing about it? But they must have known and chosen not to pass on that information.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130155312	Well, I think that's a good question. I do not want to hide the fact that I am surprised that as far as 11 August and in fact later, we received the assessment from the Defence Intelligence Service that Kabul would not fall and could stand for several weeks and months. I also note that the FE is not the only Western intelligence service that has had that assessment, and I am not going to speculate, but there is evidence that its intelligence has been based on the same sources and that those sources have not been particularly reliable as opposed to other external sources, including former chiefs of defense and people who were on the ground down there. I remember DR's correspondent Puk Damsgård texting that now the Taliban is coming, and there we were still unable to get an estimate that Kabul was falling. So I agree that it looks strange, and that is also why we need to know what on earth has gone wrong here and what can be done to ensure more, we should say diversity in the source base of what you are doing. I very much agree with Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen in.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130155415	Then there are no more brief remarks to Mr. Martin Lidegaard. And I can give the floor to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Welcome to Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130155430	Thank you very much. This is a really, really important case. The question in the question goes quite narrowly on the weekly reports, but the whole process of both the Afghanistan war and the evacuations is very much too many of us, and that is why the debate has also spread out, and what we can say is that things are very much connected. For me, it is really, really important that we get the discussion on how to get proper information to the Danish Parliament about what happens when Denmark is at war. But also the question of whether we got proper information here in the last period and whether we got it throughout the Afghanistan war, I think we can travel. I am also very, very concerned about how we get a better framework forward, which ensures the employees we have sent out, and it is both embassy employees that we are talking about here, and it is partners such as interpreters and NGO employees who help Denmark with the work. The fact that we will have a better framework in the future is one of my main concerns. In relation to the whole evacuation effort here, I think it should be said that when it first got under way, an extremely impressive effort was actually made, in which a great many people were successfully lifted from Kabul in a situation that was very, very chaotic, but which nevertheless managed to get the vast majority of those who were planned to evacuate out and where, in the political process, we also managed to reach agreement that we could actually evacuate far more than was planned first. And that is also the basis on which we, the Enhedslisten, were even included in that agreement and it actually ended up being a much more sensible setup that lay. So there was a huge piece of work that is really important and that has saved the lives of many people. But I think it was too late. And from Enhedslisten's side, we had tried to encourage people to drop the old interpretation agreement that lay; we are not in it, but there are a number of other parties that are, and there was a demand that people should be personally persecuted before they could be evacuated. There I said: listen to me, now you have to do as we see many other countries do, namely really start sticking out some visas to people who have been our partners or our employees; the British did so, among other things, the French were working, the Americans, the Canadians and several others. That is what I was calling for to be done, and that is what ended up being done, but it should have been done before. I agree that it would have been good to have had a lot of that information, you might say, but it was now also my experience in relation to the intelligence image and in relation to it that there had not been a good enough intelligence picture of how quickly it went, that it politically filled a great deal. I think that when neither the government nor the Left nor the Conservatives were much earlier willing to start sticking out a lot of visas to people, it was about the tight immigration policy. That is also why, for many years, a deeply inadequate interpretation agreement has been in place. So that's one of the things I want to look at and really want to be interested in. And that's why I'm here, too. asked Conservatives: Well, would you have evacuated some more? For what is really the hops in this is: was it possible to make that evacuation in a sensible way and was it too late? Would you like to have done something else? And I think that is very, very important. However, with regard to the intelligence, I must say that I am quite convinced that there has been a glorification of what has happened in Afghanistan; that there has been a glorification of what the capabilities of the Afghan army and security forces were. And I think it has been very, very politically determined when both the Americans and the Danishs have been holding on for a long time to the fact that things went better in Afghanistan than they really did. We have heard this for many years, and we have also seen here in the end that there has been far too much inadequate and poor information about what the real situation was down there. I think it has been possible for a long time to see that what was on the way really, really bad. So I would just like to say to Conservatives that from the Enhedslisten side we are always prepared to look at how we can ensure that we get even more of the truth about Denmark's wars and how to get a proper basis for the information that it may not be so politically convenient to get ahead; I think we should work on that and look at it. But for me, it is quite important how to move forward, and that is among other things. We are now having a proper investigation into the course of the Afghanistan war.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130155940	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments from Mr. Marcus Knuth for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130155944	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. We agree with much of what the rapporteur says, in other words, that this information from the weekly reports should have been available. A magnificent painting was created, I think, is what the rapporteur is saying. After all, the rapporteur has repeatedly proposed that we should have acted much earlier. In the light of these weekly reports, we agree with that. So why is it that the rapporteur will not go halfway? One thing is that you do not want to put a minister in the government you support, but why does the rapporteur not only want to take half the step with the bell-clear information that the rapporteur himself is criticising here, and give the Minister a so-called nose like the one that Enhedslisten himself was part of the Foreign Policy Name, because it was about erroneous intelligence from the Defence Intelligence Service and the Foreign Minister about the camps in Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160032	I do not think there is any basis here for saying that the Minister has been sitting consciously and withholding information from the Folketing. As the Minister puts it, she has not known about this information, and I really have no particular reason to doubt it, because it is rather standardised processes. So it's because I think you have to give people their noses when they deliberately cheat the Folketing. That's also where you can start talking about knocking them down. But would I like a better process for how we get proper information brought to the Folketing about what is going on when Denmark is at war? Yes, the rapporteur of the Conservatives can certainly count on it, and I would like to talk about it. But it's just not what to say, the minister, that's the problem here, but this wonderful painting of the war that's been going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160121	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160123	In other words, when this report is submitted to the government's investigation of itself, the rapporteur will, however, at least bear this in mind, since it does not form part of a text of adoption with the government, at least to continue to open up the possibility of criticism there. Now I just remind you, and it may be that I do not remember correctly, that Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, got some number up to ten, I think noses. This is the biggest after-business failure that has been in the last many, many decades in Danish defence policy, and the rapporteur will not even give the Minister a nose. Honestly, I think it's thin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160156	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160158	I can reassure Conservatives' rapporteur that it is not because in this way I am stingy in handing out neither criticism nor noses if ministers fail to fulfil their responsibilities. But this situation is, of course, about whether something has been done wrong and how to ensure that there is better intelligence. I do not think there is anything that so far indicates that something has been done wrong, but I would like a proper investigation. If there is anything in the preliminary statement from the authorities pointing out that there are problems, we have said right from the start that we are ready to have an independent legal investigation of that and, of course, I stand by that and I would still like to know whether Conservatives will support an impartial investigation into the Afghanistan war.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160239	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160242	I agree with the rapporteur that there has been a magnificent painting of Afghanistan throughout the process from one government to another and the third. It is simply, I think, in the DNA of governments that we have to defend what we are doing now and which we may have been strongly opposed to a month ago. It's childish in itself in such an important case. So I would like to agree with the rapporteur. And it's not just a Danish disease. I think the Americans declared the war won after six months or something. And it wasn't quite. So I'd like us to have another way of looking at this in the future. I think what the rapporteur is saying here is essential. I would just like to ask something else, and that is really my question, because first of all it was just a statement: did too many people come along because of haste? I have mentioned these two criminals who had been expelled from Denmark forever and who were with the plane home. Did too many people come because we were too busy? I know that Enhedslisten was very concerned that there should be as many as possible, unlike us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160345	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160346	First of all, thank you for your first comment. It is rare for me to agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I hope we can also use this in future war efforts, for example. Mali and try to get as much real information as possible. In relation to the question of whether there were too many or too few, there are two different things at stake. After all, the agreement we made on the evacuations in the political circle was about embassy workers, it was about former interpreters, and it was about non-governmental workers. That's what we made a political agreement on. I would still have liked to have evacuated a number of NGO staff there, for example, and we have also said this very clearly. So I don't think there was enough. But then they were also evacuated, who were people with Danish citizenship or residence in Denmark who had the opportunity to do so. It follows that you have to do so. After all, there were a few who did not have the basis for it, and I think everyone agrees that this was not appropriate. It was not intended to happen that way, but that is what can happen in such a completely chaotic situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160452	Does the author wish to make a brief comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160454	So there were too many of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160502	Yes, there were a few who did not have a legal residence in Denmark, and there is no one who disagrees with it, one can say that they should then have been sorted out. As far as I remember, some passports were also cheated, so yes. But frankly, it has also been completely conscious for all of us that when you are in a situation where you have so little time to evacuate people and there is extreme pressure at the airport, there can be mistakes that make some people come along that should not, and indeed that risk should certainly be taken forward for not having evacuated anyone, as the Danish People's Party would have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160530	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130160545	Thank you. It may surprise someone, after our debate, that I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Marcus Knuth to raise this discussion because it's actually important, both concrete, but also in a broader perspective. Even if we do not always agree on where the premise is and how the cucumber is to be cut here, it is still important that we do everything we can to clarify everything about our general activist foreign policy, our participation in wars and the conditions for doing so. In fact, when I look over the hall, I think I'm the only one in here who's had the opportunity to vote for both wars. No, sir. Mogens Jensen has probably had it, but it doesn't really matter. In politics one must admit inheritance and debt, and in my world view I think that both Mr. Søren Espersen and Mrs Eva Flyvholm are right because we need to discuss another way of dealing with this. In other words, the idea that we can simply come up with our concept of democracy and pull it down over the heads of some other cultures and some other places in the world from our perception of reality, I think we also need a thorough overhaul. In this regard, Mr. Søren Espersen is right. However, this does not change the fact that, contrary to the Iraq war, which I think maybe the biggest capital roarer was at least one of the biggest mistakes I have made in making purely politically, I think it is difficult to avoid the fact that the Afghanistan war was historically inevitable. Well, we just have to remember what the prelude was. It was the World Trade Center, it was the attack on the United States. It wasn't an option not to give an answer somehow. Well, first of all, the authorities must be praised for their amazing efforts, since this was finally started. That does not change the fact that we here from the Parliamentary Assembly, and I think that should also be criticised in relation to the government, is beyond doubt that we were too late. We were too slow to get started. And then, in KD, we believe that people who have chosen Denmark to work for Denmark should not have been granted temporary residence, but permanent residence from the outset. We saw that view as the only party in the Folketing during the negotiations, and I am a little surprised to say so. I have the same view as Mrs Flyvholm: that throughout this whole process I think there is a picture that there was a policy on foreigners in the whole, and that that is why we were too slow and too late and that we have a government which, unfortunately, is so afraid of the Danish People's Party and now also of the New Citizens' Party, that one fails to do the obvious right thing in such a situation here or at least is very long-suffering to do so. I can be wrong, and the Minister must then correct me for that, but it is, as I said to Mr. Mogens Jensen, the backdrop I experience there was throughout the process, because we could have got started earlier, and perhaps we could have had better control over who also came. It's obvious that when you panic, someone comes along. By the way, we did so with our eyes open. After all, we all sat and looked in each other's eyes and said: Yes, we know that; we may risk some entering the country that should not have been here. But it is because it has consequences when you do not exercise due diligence. So I have a call to the government in future ethical considerations as this is, and I'm actually gonna get that call from Margaret Thatcher, now Mrs. Eva Flyvholm shudders, but she actually said, "Take care of your thoughts, because they're gonna be your words." Beware of your words, for they will be your actions. Beware of your actions, for it becomes your habits. Beware of your habits because they become your character. And beware of your character, for it will be your destiny. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161051	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Christian Democrats. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161055	Thank you. It is always interesting to hear the rapporteur's speeches. They're always very exciting. There was much of what the rapporteur said, with which I was incredibly in agreement, in relation to the importance of elucidating everything. I also think that a lot of foreign policy went into this, because that is not what this is all about. It is about the Folketing having been given the correct information at the right time, since they had been shipped from our Chief of Power. So I just want to ask you something really low-practical. The rapporteur himself felt that a great deal should have been done in the past. If this information, and now I will not read it again, but in relation to Jalalabad and to strengthen the morale of the Afghan security forces, had returned to Parliament in June, when the Chief of Force sent them back to Defence, would the rapporteur agree that then there was a good likelihood that the Folketing had acted in a completely different way from what we did back in June?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161148-2	It's gonna be a little counter-productive. Unfortunately, I am not quite sure about that, and that is precisely because I believe that, although everyone knew that the situation was serious, for too long alien politics went into it, and then I have suffered the experience that everyone is sitting watching each other, and then it is about who blinks first, and whoever blinks first is then called a slacker in the field of foreigners, and that is the situation too serious for that. As I say, it is possible that I am wrong. It's just my experience, and that's why I don't really believe that things had changed big.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161240	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161241	That is very interesting, because it is such a little conspiracy theory that, although we had been told these very, very clear truths, even in the blue block we had said that it does nothing, because of foreign policy, and that we are afraid to appear lax. Does this mean that the rapporteur also believes that the information has actually been given to the government, but that the government has deliberately detained them in order not to give them to the Folketing to appear lax? So there is a lot of conspiracy theory in what the rapporteur says here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161310	No, there isn't. I just have an experience of how the policy of aliens gets into cement every once in a while, and we can have different experiences of that. But I have no reason to believe that the Minister or the government has kept us informed. After all, I was in the room myself, and sir did. Marcus Knuth, too, and I remember that it is the department, not the minister, who is saying that Kabul lasts for New Year. And yes, well, I must also say that how in the world one can sit with such intelligence is also strange to me, and that is why we think that the whole process should have a statement and then we take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161355	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Christian Democrats. The next one on the platform is the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161356	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. As I began by saying, as Minister of Defence, I am particularly concerned about the security of Danish soldiers, and the last Danish soldier left Afghanistan on June 22, 2021 in good order. On June 22, 2021, the last Danish soldier was out of Afghanistan. The FE has followed the security situation in Afghanistan, including in Kabul, both before and after the repatriation of the Danish soldiers. That's FE's job. The government has relied on FE's assessments, as has also been the general practice of previous governments, and the Folketing has been informed on a regular basis. We were all aware that Afghanistan was facing bleak prospects, but the Taliban took power faster than expected. The FE was surprised by Kabul's rapid fall. We all did so; the Americans and our other allies did so, yes, even the Taliban, reportedly, was also surprised at how quickly Kabul fell. Therefore, it is also natural that we evaluate and examine what can be learned from the process. The Danish soldiers and other authorities provided an extraordinary effort in connection with the evacuation from Afghanistan, for which we owe them huge thanks. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161535	Thank you very much. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161540	Thank you. There's one interesting thing that's come out here in the last few days. We have asked again and again how it can be that on 16 June the Chief of Staff of the Afghan forces reported home that Jalalabad, the second largest city, is now under the control of the Taliban, and the Minister for Defence has then written the answer before the weekly reports are actually included in the material used by the intelligence service for their security analysis. But now the minister stands and says that the intelligence service only believes that Jalalabad fell on 15 August, i.e. 2 months after the Danish Chief of Staff reported it back. So if it is the case that the senior commander in Afghanistan reports something so important back to the defense, but that the defense intelligence service only records it two months later, then something has gone completely, quite disastrously wrong in the whole system of which the minister is head. So can the Minister explain to me how this can happen? After all, it is an intelligence failure of astronomical magnitudes, and what has the Minister done to correct that? To me, it's nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161645	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161645-2	I think I have actually answered it in the first round, and the questioner has also received an answer in writing. The FE does not have any information, even after further examination, that Jalalabad had fallen in June. They have information that Jalalabad fell on 15 August and thus they cannot confirm the questioner's statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161708	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161709	That means that the Minister is saying that the Danish chief in Afghanistan in his last week's report was completely wrong. This is very strange, since all the other things appear to be something that is otherwise true. But then there is something central. After all, the support parties say that they are waiting for this investigation by the government of their own accord before deciding whether or not to criticise the Minister. Can the Minister just confirm that this study will also examine when and what the Minister received from the weekly reports over the summer and spring? Because otherwise the investigation is worth nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161743	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161744	After all, the study maps out the picture that was over the spring and summer, and there is also an intelligence trail, and that is also known to the questioner. Because the questioner has seen what is being examined in this evaluation and there is a clear intelligence trail, and I have, as a minister, an interest in that being elucidated. Because if anyone would have any information that Kabul would fall on 15 August, then it is me and all the defence ministers in the Western world. It would have made things a little easier if we had been familiar with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161820	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161823	Would the Minister have liked to have seen in the hindsight that the Defence Intelligence Service had informed about the content of the week reports that came from June?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161835	The weekly reports do not say that Kabul would fall so rapidly. After all, the weekly reports do not say that, and it will be a premise that continues to be laid down, that the weekly reports specifically stated that Kabul would fall so rapidly, and it does not say so. It doesn't say anywhere in the weekly reports.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161855	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161856	But it was, after all, a completely different picture that the weekly reports gave than what was known in June. And the reason I ask in this way is that, if I had been head of intelligence, I would probably have been a little embarrassed that I had not provided such essential information to the Minister. But has the Minister done anything about the defense intelligence service? Is she satisfied with the way intelligence has solved this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161925	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130161926	First to the first part: It is not true that the Folketing was not presented with a very gloomy picture. This was done by the Folketing towards the summer when FE pointed out that the most likely scenarios were the establishment of a Taliban-controlled emirat or civil war. Well, there's nothing uplifting about that. That's an incredibly gloomy picture. What surprised the FE was how fast it happened. In terms of changing FE's way of making those intelligence images, I think I explained it in the first round of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162001	The next brief remark is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162005	Well, I would like to ask the Minister about this with the intelligence, because I think that in general there is a picture that not only the Danish intelligence service, but certainly the American and other intelligence services in the coalition also provided a picture that the resistance of the Afghan security forces was probably somewhat greater than it really was. And it also coincides with the fact that there has been a political interest both from the Americans, but also from many other countries in the coalition, as well as drawing a picture that the situation was better in Afghanistan than it really was, and drawing a picture that the whole thing did not just fall apart in one day as soon as you started your exit. It is of course worrying that such political preferences also affect the image of how things are in such a place, and I would really like to hear the Minister's experience of it, i.e. if it is not conceivable that it has played some part.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162105	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162106	Thank you. I certainly do not hope so, because it will be disastrous if it is political wishful thinking that makes it possible to arrive at the image of intelligence. But that is one of the things I am very much looking forward to being mapped out in the intelligence trail there is. Well, what was it that you based your intelligence on, and what kind of people you might have put too much emphasis on? But there's also that possibility, and I just don't think we should forget that in this debate, sometimes reality surpasses even the best intelligence. So you may well have had one day an idea of what reality will be like tomorrow and the day after and in a month, and then reality has changed because of some factors that have been triggered. That is also a possible possibility. I hope not, but I think it is important to check whether it can be politically motivated in relation to the partners we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162205	Here you go, Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162207	Unfortunately, I think there may be a very great risk of that, because I think we have seen the same thing many times before. In Iraq, for example, there was a situation in Iraq. nor just thought that Mosul could just fall to IS as fast as it did etc. But that can happen because we have supported some security forces that are not, what to say, particularly based on the people and with which there are a lot of problems, corruption and everything else. So these questions are, of course, central to taking along, and I hope that the Minister will have a very open eye on that. It is my opinion that there is a political problem here; that there has been a glorious painting. And that is one of the things we need to do, so that we can also have more openness about what is being presented to the Folketing as a basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162246	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162247	One of the things I think is going to make a decisive difference is this, which I have also described several times before, namely that we will have consequences. In other words, one thing is the probabilities involved, but if we also have consequences, we at least make the picture that goes to us politicians better. Well, there may be a low probability, but a high consequence, just as there may be a high probability, but a low consequence. Everything else will ensure better transparency.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162318	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162320	If you read Andrew Feinstein's book from 2011, which is called "The Shadow World: Inside the Global Arms Trade, you will soon be able to make sure that you have to be a little bit careful about taking British and American intelligence at face value always. If we look back at our own history of the Iraq war, I think we all know that this is also the case, and that some of us have burned our hands a little bit, not to say much. Does this give the government reason to consider what intelligence is based on the fact that the British and American intelligence on which assessments were based, when we were in the negotiating room in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was so flawed, as we have unfortunately also seen in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162426	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162427	Thank you for a good question. I have a clear expectation that the defense intelligence service will rethink the way they do these analyses, including what different elements they value and what value they attach to it. And this isn't just Denmark, it's across Western intelligence services, and I think it's important to look very soberly at whether you base your individual intelligence on the same basic intelligence, i.e. whether group thinking occurs, and I have a clear expectation that this is a central consideration by the Defence Intelligence Service.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162508	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162509	Does the Minister have any reason to have perhaps an idea or suspicion that British and American intelligence has been in place, now Mrs Flyvholm calls it a magnificent painting, but if nothing else a political errand in them?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162528	I have no preconditions for saying that it should be British or American intelligence, but what I have a clear expectation of is that there is a strong reflection on what intelligence has been based on the overall assessment of what has been concluded and also whether any of them have been given too much value. But no matter how good intelligence we have and how accurate intelligence you have, they will always be a snapshot, and with a snapshot one second can change the next second, so we will never have intelligence that can describe reality completely. So, even if we want to be able to say everything and predict everything in this world, there's still a risk that something can happen suddenly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162617	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. There are no more brief comments. The rapporteur for the proposers, Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party, has asked for the floor in the second round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162632	Thank you, sir. President. It is not to start the whole debate again. It is for saying thank you for a good debate, and especially for what I think I heard from everyone, namely that there is a desire to shed light on everything that is important in this process. I even think that the defence rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party said that the things that were in these weekly reports were of course relevant but, one must understand, they were obviously not so relevant that they should have arrived at the Folketing. There are three points I would like to make from today's debate. I think that the rapporteur from the Left and congratulations on the virginity up here said it incredibly clearly when he said that it cannot be on the basis of access to documents that the Parliament is given as crucial information as what is here. It is the Minister's responsibility. Sir. Søren Espersen asked the Minister if he would have liked the picture drawn in the weekly reports to have been accessed by the Danish Parliament. We did not get a clear answer to that. And here in the end Mr. Jens Rohde to the intelligence provided by the British and Americans in relation to the intelligence image drawn by our own Chief of Forces, and I must just say there I do not understand that the Minister goes out and indirectly criticises our own Chief of Forces by saying that he was wrong when he said that the Taliban had control of Jalalabad. The picture he drew was all just enough more accurate than what we were told by the FE on 9 August. On the blue side, with the exception of Mr. Jens Rohde, we insist that it is the Minister who has the highest responsibility for the Parliament not being informed, and the Minister's explanations as to whether the Minister has been informed or not are simply not connected. Then there is a small bright spot in relation to the Radicals, Enhedslisten and the SF, which qua their own adoption text in each case opens up a little that there can be criticism • hopefully also serious criticism by the government when the government's own investigation of itself is available. So we look forward to that very much. With this I would say that we hope that the government's report will be just about impartial. We hope it will give an insight into what the Minister has known, and then we hope that all the support parties will take on as much importance as the Radical Left with Mr. Jens Rohde did, when it was agreed to make the so-called "search commission" following the entire minkskandalen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162854	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130162858	It is in line with this point of clarifying everything that is important, and in this way I would like to thank the rapporteur for just giving me the opportunity to ask again. After all, the Conservatives and the Left were pioneers of the abolition of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission, which was supposed to have investigated some of these things in the past. I was very sorry. But now we have an opportunity to make a new presentation of the Afghanistan process, which is not as extensive as the Afghanistan Commission would have been, but still gone, I think, a good opportunity, driven by external researchers. One of the things I think is basically to clarify is, among other things: also whether you have had proper knowledge of what the situation in Afghanistan actually was and whether you have taken proper stock of it in relation to the efforts that have been made. And I would just like to take this opportunity to ask Conservatives: Is Conservatives going to back this investigation? I just don't know. I think it would be nice if Conservatives would back it up, but it is with great curiosity from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130163000	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130163001	Thank you. That is a very relevant question. I can tell the rapporteur that, overall, we are positive about this. We have, of course, been in dialogue with the Foreign Minister about this. There are some parts that are very important to us, among others. I say this from memory, that the investigation is due to start in 2001, but apparently the last soldiers will have to leave the country in June, and not when the Danish embassy closes in August. There we think it is absolutely crucial to have the last 2 months with us in order to clarify precisely how it could be that the country collapsed and what was known at the Danish embassy in the last 2 months. This is what we feel the government is trying to blur a little by doing this as another independent investigation that they themselves have initiated. However, in relation to the 20-year study, we are in favour of it. We believe that it should be from 2001 until the Danish embassy closes, and then we have some other kicks for it, but I think we should take that in the ongoing dialogue there is. But we are open to that, because there is so much we have to learn from this, also in relation to what we have to do in any future efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130163103	Here you go, Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130163105	I think it is positive that Conservatives will support it immediately. I can flag that one of our own stick horses in the Enhedslisten is also to look at the consequences of how to e.g. Allied with warlords who have committed acts of violence against the civilian population, for example. also to look at the consequences of civilians killed and how it has given support to the Taliban. I also hope that Conservatives will help to support that, in fact, are some of the things we are looking at, because that is an essential part of raising the truth and the level of intelligence and also putting it before the Folketing. So let's discuss it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130163139	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130163140	Before the rapporteur is overjoyed, I can also say that, overall, we are critical or rather: we believe that the parties that should be behind this 20-year study are the very same parties that supported the 20-year period, and I do not think that the Enhedslisten is there. But let's take it when we get to the bottom of the last details of this statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130163203	We thank the Conservative rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130163226	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130163243	The legislative proposal we are discussing today is, in all its complex simplicity, about being able to ensure that we get the best possible way through the decommissionings that may come in our school area, in day-to-day offers, etc. as a result of the covid-19. And this is not a new issue, because it is actually the legislation and framework that have been in force since we dealt with how, in March 2020, we could ensure that during a pandemic, because of decommissioning, we could actually provide our children and young people with the absolutely necessary education and care and everything that needs to be done out there. So this is an absolutely crucial legislative proposal, but when we dealt with it 14 days ago, there was also agreement that it was inappropriate to deal with it urgently, and that is why we agreed that we adopted the bill temporarily for a month, while in the meantime we could deal with it quite normally, and that is what we are doing today. This is what we discussed in this context, not this bill, which does not do from time to time, in relation to what is being shut down. This is all about what can be done when, of course, we support the bill, which makes it possible to have this emergency legislation and these options up to April, with the possibility of extending to the end of the school year on 24 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130163405	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kenneth Mikkelsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130163412	Thank you. The Minister has once again requested that we extend the emergency law in the field of children and education. As you know, it provides an opportunity to mitigate some of the challenges that come in the wake of the covid-19 management. This is particularly true of the challenges posed by the decommissioning of schools and the repatriation of classes. After all, the proposal comes on the heels I had almost said on L 61 that we dealt with earlier this month. Unfortunately, Corona is far from the past. We have found the muzzles again, and we have prepared ourselves for a winter when the covid-19 is again haunting the scenery. We are probably going to see, and we already see that classes are being sent back and closed down schools in places where the covid-19 has come within the door. With the extension of the Emergency Act, we ensure that children and young people, pupils and students can receive distance learning during the return period, and we ensure that day offers, schools and educational institutions can maintain their activity even if the pupils and students have returned. After all, the hearings show almost a clear desire and need for the emergency law, which we in the Left are prepared to comply with. During the debate on L 61 14 days ago, I criticised the Minister for urgent consideration of the draft law. An ordinary treatment would have been appropriate, but we have started doing so now, and thank you for that. At that time, 14 days ago, it was important for the Left that the emergency law was running for a slightly more limited period than that proposed by the Minister. It was also important to have the Minister's word that the bill should not be used as a lever or tool for mass closures. It was important for the Left during the treatment of L 61 and it is still gone. The Left has called on the Minister to table an amendment which means that a possible extension after 18 April can only take place if there is a majority of the rapporteurs. We have also asked the Minister to ensure that a note is sent to the Committee on Epidemia that the law should not be used as a tool for mass closures. The Left has also expressed the wish in the past that a work be started in which we examine the possibility of adding the possibility of distance learning to the rather more general or, as we might call it, normal legislation. We need to find ways to deal with corona and other epidemics that are not based on emergency legislation. You can put it another way: we have to learn to live with it. I have the impression that the Minister intends to comply with the wishes of the Left, as I have just explained, and I hope that the Minister will confirm it from the platform here later this afternoon. Subject to the changes indicated, the Left supports the proposal and I look forward to further political work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130163741	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130163805	Thank you. In the SF, we agree that an emergency law is still needed to enable both emergency education and other measures to mitigate the consequences of decommissioning or restrictions if we are to run into it on a larger scale in relation to the corona virus. Unfortunately, we are once again in a serious situation with a great many infected people and a great deal of pressure on the health service, and I would also like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to the health professionals, who continue to struggle after a long time with great pressure and in very tough conditions, and also to teachers, educators, school leaders and rectors who, in difficult times, have had to make everyday life work under really difficult conditions. It has required and it still requires a high degree of flexibility, and we in the SF are quite impressed by the way one has played a daily life together in a difficult time. It is not a desirable situation for us to find ourselves in, and therefore it is absolutely essential that we have a helicopter glance that looks back at the experience we have gained in this time. The long periods of decommissioning also hit socially wrong, and it is important that we keep an eye on and ensure that all children and young people thrive as well as possible. If we are in a situation where schools have to close, children and young people who are vulnerable must be offered more physical education at school, and then it is good that we can focus on those children who need extra support. It also makes it even more important to have a sharper focus on not creating inappropriate, large distances in the learning environments. In other words, it is crucial that we do not create an A and B team, and that the children get a feeling that because they are in physical school, it is not about being not as talented as those who must stay at home, and you should not feel like a loser, as a young boy said to me. He described himself as that because he was one of those who had to go to school. So it can be experienced stigmatizing and degrading, and therefore it is important that we use our experiences precisely for the benefit of these vulnerable children, students and parents and look at how we can continue to create flexible solutions that will not have any of these unintended consequences for the vulnerable children and young people who really need our help during a shutdown. That will be one of the things we will be looking at more in the committee work that is coming. In the SF, of course, we support the proposal, and then I should welcome from the Radical Left and from the Enhedslisten and say that they too are in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130164045	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130164051	Thank you very much. I'm gonna take the temp here for Mai Mercado, who's unfortunately sick. In November we discussed the bill we are debating today. It is a bill that we have dealt with several times and several times, as the draft law sets the framework for emergency education in a coronatide. Thus, there has been a sunset clause every time, so that the law does not just run forever. Previous readings have thus been emergency laws and procedures and not ordinary legislative procedures with a consultation process. The bill also has a sunset clause, and thus the law expires on 18 April 2022. To the bill back in November we explained to Conservatives that we want to go very far to avoid the decommissioning of schools. The students have paid a high price for the decommissionings we have already been through, and violent disarray and more students in contact with the psychiatric system have been some of the worst consequences. We still have that concern. However, when we supported the bill at that time, it was partly due to the need to provide a legal basis for emergency education and the development of examinations and examinations, and partly because we were promised that the next reading of the same bill would be an ordinary legislative procedure in which the bill was consulted. In November we agreed that the time for urgent legislative proposals must be over and that we must ensure that democratic rules are respected. That is why we also welcome the tabling of this bill and vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130164230	Thank you very much to the Conservative rapporteur. There were no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130164241	Thank you. Yeah, it kind of gives me a sense of déjà vu. We stood here a short time ago and also discussed a proposal to extend the emergency law. I am not going to make the same speech again, but I can only agree with what the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur said, precisely because of the great consequences for schoolchildren in Denmark of having closed schools and sending healthy children home. So, no, we still can't support this emergency legislation, because it's perfectly possible, of course, to send sick children home and give them something that they can work with while they're sick while they're at home, and then they can come back. But this whole mass closure of schools is what this new legislation is meant for, and so we cannot back that up. So we don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130164329	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130164342	Thank you. The KD supports the bill with the comments which the Left has also attached and which we think the Minister should consider.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130164354	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Christian Democrats. There were no brief comments. This means that the Minister is not Mrs Krarup. Here you go. It's a tiny bit outside the series of speakers, but... Marie Krarup It happened suddenly very quickly). Yeah, that way it's been an effective day. Here you go to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130164414	Thank you for the floor outside the series of speakers. The Danish People's Party considers the bill to be timely care, and since it is not a question, as we read it, of wanting to close more than is most necessary, but only that you will have the opportunity to carry out emergency education if necessary, the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130164433	Thank you to the rapporteur. This did not give rise to brief comments. This is the turn of the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130164440	Thank you, and thank you for joining the bill from most parties. It is absolutely right that we dealt with this two weeks ago. I would like to say a few words about why this distance learning is so important. I was actually panicking, just to tell you right at the thought that we didn't have the opportunity. It is not because it is very important right now, because what has been said from up here is certainly absolutely right, namely that this is not happening from time to time, compared to how many schools are open or closed. It's all being dealt with over in the epidemic law. So all this does is make it possible for teachers to actually teach the students remotely if that's how they've been sent home. Right now, there are seven schools, not whole schools, but some certain classes in those schools; then there were the week after 7 and then 11 schools where there are repatriations to a greater or lesser extent. We have thousands of schools in Denmark, which is why we are talking about a very, very small number. But if this legislation is not there, then teachers must not teach remotely. Somehow that is not so appropriate. I've asked the Ministry to take a look at it. Moreover, it is not in connection with precisely this, but simply to have an overview of what has actually happened with distance learning and also with the corona closures, both the first and the second decommissioning, also in relation to comparable countries. What you can at least see is that there is no doubt about it, and it was also said from up here from the platform that some people have been miserable about being at home. I would like to say that I myself have considered a great many times along the way the situation of having, for example, parents who were alcoholics, and then you were locked up at home with your parents without being able to go to school, which otherwise could give that daily breathing space from really bombed home conditions. It hasn't been fun. And you shouldn't be wrong about the fact that it's been really, really hard for some people to be at home. It may be because of bumps on the home front, but it may also be because of all sorts of other things. But we look at it alone, and we narrow in and look at the professional level, i.e. how it actually went with the professional level, then it turned out from the first study we had that in the vicinity of 20 per cent. had a bit of a problem with teaching online. The large middle group did just about as usual. And then there were 12 percent who were actually doing better than usual. Now we've got test results of one character and another, with the reservation that they've been taken at a slightly different time of the year, and there's all those things and there's actually not a professional backlog. This is not the case for all the countries that have looked at. This applies to some of the countries, including Denmark. I think there are reasons why, fortunately, we are entering the category where there are no professional delays. This does not mean that there can be no individual pupils who have a professional deficit; this is an average consideration. When we do not generally have a professional backlog in Denmark, it's all about that will be my assessment, and we're getting qualified that we have a teacher's stand that has been quite fantastic at adjusting to a new way of teaching. And, by the way, it is about us being as digitised as we are. That is why we also had the infrastructure needed to catch the ball. So it's just to say that when I've been panicking about the idea that we didn't have these opportunities, it's because we can see that it actually makes a huge difference for the students that they have the opportunity to get distance learning. Then I know that it is completely up to the hat and the spectacles and the tricks, also relatively often when you try to get a first class to concentrate on distance learning. It's a little easier when they get older. It's self-evident, too. But having a structure around your everyday life and being held in mind about it, that there is a community and everyday life, in itself means a lot to the students. That is why it is important that we have the opportunity, even if very few schools are closed down. Let me therefore say this from up here quite unequivocally, because that is what has been asked about in some rounds: no, this should not be used as a lever, either to close more or fewer schools. It has nothing to do with that part. It's something the Board of Patient Safety and the Epidemic Act is dealing with. This is all about the fact that if schools are closed, what can you do? The second point I would like to make is that of the Left. And we have quite rightly discussed it in advance to try to see if we could find each other. I think we can do that. So from here, just a promise. I have to say that the lawyers are now pointing to the civil servant's vault, saying that this is actually the case in the law section of the legislation which it is presented here, that, as usual, we have to get the announcement past the political follow-up group. This has also been the case with some of the other notices issued under Corona. But to elaborate on this part - because there have been doubts about that - it would be our proposal that we make a draft contribution to the report, in which we make exactly the two things clear. Firstly, if there is to be an administrative extension after April, there must not be a majority against it in the political follow-up group, in other words there must be support in the political follow-up group. And secondly, of course, we don't imagine having to use this as a lever for anything that's about open or closed schools. The third point I would like to make at the end is that I certainly believe that we also need to look at it a little wider. That is why it is also a commitment that we will have a look at it. For it could just as well be an outbreak of meningitis; now I have studied myself in London, and there is actually relatively often the supply of meningitis, but it could also be other conditions that arose in connection with a need to shut down a class or school. Now we have developed it so that teachers can actually teach in that way. Perhaps it would then be appropriate for us to give it more general scope. So there is openness on my part when it comes to discussing it. So thank you very much for the debate and thank you for your support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130165042	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130165046	Thank you. I'm not so afraid of that professional backlog. Especially the little ones will come for it. That's not the problem. I'd just like to take that ride and sign for the concern that exists for those who are locked up at home. But the Left also addressed the possibility, perhaps in some cases, of having more distance learning in general. Because there's also the other side. After all, there are those children who really thrive on the fact that there are opportunities for distance learning. There are many children who do not necessarily think that it is fantastic to be such in large assemblies all the time and should perform along that path, but who have actually had a great deal of distance learning. What thoughts does the Minister have on what the Left addressed in the rapporteur's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130165148	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130165151	In fact, I have spent many hours thinking about this together, because I think there is a great deal that speaks for and against, and the students are quite simply so different in this respect. This is reflected precisely in the studies we have carried out. Therefore, there is not really such a one size fits all. I think there is something in favour of it being given the opportunity to do so. I think we all agree on that. I just want to say that. For even for those who do not like to be together all the time, it may be necessary to learn it, in other words to get the knowledge that comes with it. But having said that, I can see that you could have a Tuesday in which one half of the 8th class, those who thrive on sitting and immersing themselves at home, are allowed to do so, i.e. immerse themselves in some tasks, possibly a few together. The other half of the 8th grade will be over at school. Then you meet again for lunch and pick up the assignments. The law does not allow that to happen today. It seems a little crazy on top of a time of corona. I think we should see if we can find such intermediate variants.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130165304	Here you go to the rapporteur. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, As no one else has asked to speak, we thank the Minister. And since we have now thanked the Minister, the debate has also ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130165329	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen. Perhaps I can ask him to salute the radical rapporteur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130165339	Thank you, President. I had discovered that the President, who is also a radical rapporteur, was trapped in this chair. With this bill, a number of adjustments are being made in the field of inspection and approval of vehicles in Denmark. It is the case that we do not have periodic vision for motorcycles today; on the other hand, motorcycles are being viewed in certain contexts, for example. in the case of a change of ownership and of motorcycles used for practice. In this context, the survey firms are examining approx. 20,000 motorcycles a year. The Periodic Survey Directive is to be implemented here by 1 January 2022 and provides for alternatives to periodic surveys. And here, in a review of accident statistics and data from the survey of motorcycles, the Danish Road Safety Authority has found that the roadside view of motorcycles will be at least as high as in the case of periodic vision. At the same time, it will be less intrusive for citizens because motorbike owners do not have to be called for regular regular surveys, such as: passenger car owners. A periodic vision of motorcycles is unlikely to have the great effect on motorcycles that are illegally changed to noise more than allowed. It is relatively easy to change the exhaust or the like so that the motorcycle becomes legal prior to a periodic vision. And in this way, we will not be able to change the fact that illegal motorcycles are driving around and making too much noise on Danish roads if we introduce periodic vision. That's why you can discover this by roadside viewing instead. It is therefore proposed that the Danish Road Safety Authority should be able to lay down rules allowing the board to carry out roadside inspections of motorcycles and to accompany the motorcycle to a control point. During the roadside checks, the management will check the technical condition of the motorcycle and will focus on whether the noise level of the motorcycle complies with the requirements for this. It should be noted that the draft law does not introduce new noise requirements, but merely new rules on how to check compliance with applicable rules. The viewing fee is a cost-based fee, where the rate is fixed by the law of sight. It follows from the law that the sighting companies must pay a sighting fee of DKK 19. to cover the costs of inspection and supervision by the Danish Trade Administration each time a vehicle is sighted by a visual auditor. The fee is indexed, which means that today the rate is regulated at DKK 21. However, the draft law retains the fee system as it stands today, with two adjustments: firstly, it ensures that the tariff can be fixed at the statutory level so that there is flexible access to adjust the tariff and thus ensure a balance between expenditure and revenue in the scheme. The fee will be reduced to 17 DKK. for a period such that the surplus generated by the current administration of the scheme is reduced over a four-year period. Secondly, it is intended that the future roadside view of motorcycles will also be financed via the survey fee. The draft law proposes a new authorisation clause which provides for rules on the approval, testing and documentation of components, systems and separate technical units. It is expected that the provision will be used, inter alia, for: to establish a national approval system for particulate filters in certain vehicles intended to run in environmental zones. It is proposed that the Authority be given the power to suspend approval in situations where the Authority finds that the basis for approval of a vehicle has not been sufficient. It happens as I understand it, approx. 100 times a year. This will be possible with a system blockage of the vehicle in eSyn or in the Vehicle Register and will have the consequence that the vehicle owner will not be able to change the vehicle's registration conditions. This ensures that the vehicle owner cannot re-sell a vehicle that has been approved on an incomplete basis. The booking will be removed when the Authority receives information that the appropriate basis for approval has been submitted and reviewed in the context of a new view of the vehicle. In addition, it is proposed that the possibility for the police to withdraw registration plates immediately following a recorded overrun of the time limit for periodic inspection should await the request of the Administration of Trade. The Administrative Board shall issue two administrative fines, together with an order for the lodging of the vehicle's registration plates, when a period of inspection is exceeded. And then there is something that is quite good for consumers, at the end of the bill. In fact, it is proposed that the Danish Trade Agency be given the opportunity to lay down rules in the notice of sight that sight data, including the content of monitoring reports, are published on the Danish Trade Agency's website. The publication of vision data will help ensure that buyers of used vehicles can go in and look at the visual history and see if it is a car that you want to buy at the proposed price. So in this way you are better off as a consumer. All in all, it is a proposal that Social Democracy can support, and I have been whispered in my ear, that so can the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130165901	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130165911	Thank you for that, President. My Socialist colleague, Mr. Thomas Jensen has explained the content of the bill in an excellent and thorough manner, so I shall spare you that to repeat. The Left supports the bill. We think it makes sense to introduce this roadside view of motorcycles. This is the least intrusive measure possible. And then it has even taken the advantage of catching more of those who have come to take the bait out of the exhaust. I remember with pleasure when I got my Puch Flagship moped myself, and I also have to admit that I think at some point I got to pull the stuff out of the exhaust, because I thought it sounded really good and I was awfully cool when I was driving around with it. But I got it put back in. It may also be that some individual motorcyclists think it is cool to drive around with a motorcycle that makes noise at Pomerania, but it is and remains traffical egoism. Because when you have a vehicle that makes a noise or makes an unnecessary mess, other people suffer, and it is therefore good that the system we are adopting here helps to dampen the noisy motorcycles. Because it is the case that if you drive to a periodic vision, you can put the stuff into the exhaust, and the next day you can pick it out again, whereas the trap claps at a roadside view, and the fine falls quickly if it makes too much noise. That's $2,500. fines in the case of first-time cases. Then I note that Motorhistorical Consultation is appealing to us to find a way to make some relevant exceptions for historic motorcycles. Because it was another construction you drove 40-50-60 years ago. And there I can also understand from the Minister in the consultation note that we are prepared to find out, even at a time when historic motorcycles are not covered by the EU directive. So I welcome that. With regard to the fee, the Left is pleased that it is cost-based. You must never use the fee as a hidden tax, which is why it is good that it is cost-based, so we can agree with that too. And then it is also very good that visual data showing the vehicle's condition are now being published. It helps to create more security and confidence when dealing with vehicles. So all in all, the Left is positive about this proposal and we can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130170144	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130170154	Thank you. I am quite sure that when the Left Transport rapporteur sits at home at the evening table and eats his dinner with his wife, who is a driving instructor, there is never a second when you are in doubt about what to talk about. In fact, I think it must be quite an interesting experience to take the work home with us, and that's sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen of course in his right to choose to do so. After all, commitment is always good, and Mr. Simpson does. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen at least in this case. Of course, I also agree with Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen in that with the excellent presentation of this bill that came from the Social Democrats' Transport Rapporteur, Mr. Thomas Jensen, it's hard to come up with a lot of news. After all, the Danish People's Party feels that the EU directives that contain something good we like, and those that contain something bad, we are not so happy about. For me, it is new that we have something called a period vision directive within EU law, but we do. There too, the European Union has shown its interest. But that does not change the fact that with this bill there will be better conditions for dealing with the discussion about what we need to do to ensure that the vehicles that come on the roads are also in good condition. It actually makes sense for this side view of motorcycles, and I think it does if you look at other places where we practice roadside viewing. Among other things: In the case of heavy goods, there has been criticism of the fact that there has been too far between the snaps, at least in relation to the fact that there are too few controls. One can always discuss how many people need to be, but there must also be some kind of control of the many motorcycles that are, and with this bill it might be put a little more into the system compared to what we have now. There is a place in the Minister's bill where we have a concern. This concerns what is implicit in this authorization to set fees and also to make some changes to the fees in relation to whether it is something that is regulated by a percentage or something else. But I would just like to say, for the sake of good order, that we are sending a question to the Minister for Transport about what we can look forward to and how it is fenced in. If this is such a wild west authority, I would like to be a little critical, because we are generally not so happy with all these ministerial powers, especially when it is the fee screw we are out in. That's where we're gonna have a little bit of a safe hand on it. With those comments, of course, we can support the bill, but we will of course reserve the right to look at it with regard to the fees. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130170454	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130170503	Thank you very much. Traffic noise is a problem that I am sure many of my colleagues have discovered takes up incredibly much for people too more than it has done in the past, and that is for very good reason. It is, of course, the case that recent research and studies on traffic noise indicate that it is extremely harmful to health. It has a number of really harmful effects on health. It can contribute to stress, the development of cardiovascular diseases, dementia and other really unpleasant things. I am therefore incredibly pleased that it certainly seems that in here we are very much in agreement that traffic noise is something that needs to be addressed. Part of that we also think in the SF is that, in the case of motorcycles, you stop noiseing more than you are entitled to. Then my colleague from the Left nods, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen I'm glad we agree. It is true that I am from Lolland, where we have a number of young men in particular, but also others who have a preference for riding motorbikes, mopeds and other such vehicles, and for some reason it is especially preferable if they make huge noises. I cannot personally understand that preference. I've never enjoyed the noise of a vehicle. That's also why I drive an electric car. But if anyone feels that way, then they should be warmly welcome to it. I just feel like you don't have to make any more noise than you have to. That is why I think it is extremely positive that with this legislative proposal we are ensuring that roadside inspections can be carried out and that the legislative proposal helps to strengthen the control of noise requirements. It is not to sound like an old lady at all, but I think it is extremely important that, if we are to do away with traffic noise, we also take it seriously when the noise comes from vehicles such as motorcycles. Therefore, the SF can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130170733	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130170752	Thank you. Nor is there any doubt that Enhedslisten supports the bill, at least parts of it, I would say. We also think it is a good idea to put motorbikes on the road, to put it in place, and we also note, of course, that it is first and foremost the noisy motorcycles that will be very much dealt with. That makes sense. Traffic noise is a huge problem, and so some motorcycles contribute to that noise. We note, then, that, of course, we note in the Enhedslisten that it is the Færdselsstyrelsen who has to make roadside views of motorcycles and that the control can be carried out in cooperation with the police. We are not so enthusiastic about that in reality. But this is an old, well-known problem, because we believe that there is a smooth transfer of tasks, resources and resources from the police to the Customs Authority, and we do not really like it very much. This is also seen in the draft law on the withdrawal of license plates, which has a critical look at the powers of the police today and which are then not considered appropriate. Instead, the administrative procedure with two administrative fines and an order for the lodging of plates will be applied, and only after 15 weeks, 15 weeks after the deadline for inspection has been exceeded can the police be asked to withdraw the registration number. This means that the possibilities of the police, which they have today, where they can intervene much more quickly and demand the license plate lodged, are being curtailed in this way, and that the police should wait for this request from the Customs Authority. I can see that it says that the police can continue to withdraw the license plate if you discover that a vehicle is a danger to traffic and so on. I can easily see that, but the possibilities offered by the police are being reduced, and I see no reason for that. In our opinion, then, we are well aware, and it is our general appeal to what is going on, to build up some kind of dual system of roadside inspections at all, including the control of heavy vehicles and now registration plates, and we do not really understand the point of this. And you are beginning to wonder whether, at some point in time, the Customs Authority should also take over the ordinary traffic control, which, after all, today lies with the police. Is that what we're heading for? There most people will probably beat seven crosses for themselves and say: No, no, that's not it. Nevertheless, there is a sliding, what to say, transfer of tasks from the police to the Administration of Trades. In fact, in the Enhedslisten we think that the police are doing quite a good job when it comes to traffic control and heavy duty vehicle control and things like that, and we are not actually happy to see that police efforts are weakening in a few areas just as quietly, but I do not think that we have seen the latter. This applies, of course, as I said, to heavy goods vehicles, and it now applies to the inclusion of license plates, and it also applies to the work on driving and theoretical tests, which is something we have to deal with in a resolution from the Left after the examination of this bill. I would just like to say that the other parts of the legislative proposal we support are true, but we are very critical of what is going on, and I would therefore like to use the committee work as well as drilling in the process of the wrong process, we think as we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171158	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. It's sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171206	Thank you very much. I think I will start by addressing my colleague from the Danish People's Party, who asked for dinner at Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen and his future wife, I would say, Carina. I can say that I have attended dinners with those concerned, and that is very nice. With regard to roadside viewing of motorcycles, our only concern is solely with costs and time spent on roadside viewing. It must necessarily be the case that roadside inspections will have to be carried out during the summer, as that is where the motorcycles run, and probably many of these sights will be carried out, where there are many motorcycles assembled in one place. It could be motorcycle hits and the like. In this respect, we fear that it may also take up the time of the police, thereby raising the flag of increased costs and strain on police time, which may affect other tasks. We will be asking about this in committee. Apart from that, however, we have no concerns and are very positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171318	Thank you very much to the Conservative rapporteur. There were no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens as the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171327	So there's not going to be a toast talk from here about this bill, which I think at best is unnecessary and, at worst, it's going to bother some people where it wasn't meant to be. At any rate, I would like to start by asking how many people consider there are problems with, because they do not comply with the legislation in force. Because with regard to these noise requirements, we already have legislation today. We know what's illegal. It's fine sizes etc. I find it very difficult to see why this legislation should be necessary. I would also like to say, as previous rapporteurs have also pointed out, that the Danish Trade Administration is already very busy with a great many other things, among others. the conduct of driving tests, with which, to put it mildly, we have a number of challenges. So starting to get them started on something that may not really be necessary, I do not really see the argument for. I would say that I myself, unlike the gentlemen who have been up here earlier, at least I know that I have taken the motorbike licence, and so there you check these motorcycles quite a lot, i.e. how and how it should sit, fluid level, and that everything is as it should be. And so it is already in force in the legislation that when you have to sell your motorcycle, it has to go through vision and so on. So there are a lot of these things that are included. What you want from this legislation, and we can also hear from some of the rapporteurs who have been up here, is that you want to catch those who do not comply with the legislation as it actually is today, in other words some of those who make excessive noise. So legislation is being made on top of legislation, and we do not think that is necessary. We know that this comes from an EU directive. We shall vote against it anyway. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171517	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Thomas Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171521	I assume that the rapporteur has read the draft law and is therefore also aware that if we do not come up with alternatives to periodic vision, all motorcyclists must be convened every two years for a periodic view. Is that what New Citizen wants, that is, every biker has to go in every two years and have his bike seen?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171547	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171550	It is if you buy the premise that we have to
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171555	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171557	Now we are a member of the European Union and have undertaken to implement the directives that are coming, which is why this is not a free choice booth. You stand in the legislature for Denmark, which has committed itself to something, so I ask you specifically: would New Citizens introduce that we have periodic visions every two years, instead of having these views done, where we are going to catch those who cannot comply with the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171622	No, we don't want either, so we're voting against no matter what. It is of course the case that we basically believe that in Denmark it is the Danish politicians who have been elected by the Danes who have to lay down the legislation. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171636	Thank you. I would ask the questioner to bear in mind the direct indictment. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171646	Then I can tell Mrs Mette Thiesen that I am also a motorcyclist. I'm driving Hayabusa. It's the fastest serial machine in the world. It's going 300 miles an hour, and I only want to be stopped by Vlado. In this way, I feel just like Mr. Henning Hylllested; I only want to be stopped by Vlado! But I can't decide for myself when it comes down to it. In the end and joke aside: we also support the legislative proposal, since, unlike the new citizens, we will always respect the implementation of EU directives. Then we can always discuss how we do it, but this is the most gentle way, the way we see it. Apart from that, I can just say to Mrs Mette Thiesen, it is quite right that when you take a motorbike licence, and when you are a motorbike driver, there is, in contrast to taking a driving licence for a car, not the part you are not consulted on when a motorcycle complies with the legislation in force. That's everything from chain to brake fluid, oil and tires. That's all. It makes so much sense in the teaching and also in the practical driving test that for most motorcyclists it becomes an integral part to check that the motorcycle is in order if not for others one should at least always do it for one's own. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171825	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is now the Minister of Transport who is asked to come to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130171842	Thank you, President, and thank the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law. I would also like to thank you for the part of the debate on the more technical parts, on motorcycles and on what should be done in connection with driving motorbikes. Without having to get off the road, I can at least say that it is all about what you really have to learn, for example, when you have to learn how to drive a car. This is one of the things we are going to talk about in the new year, because we are going to have to look at the whole area of driving licences and driving training so small. The present education dates back to 1986 and has, it has to be said, been overtaken by technological developments many times, among other things. As far as motor cycles are concerned, we need to know a great deal about design and not necessarily about other types of vehicles. There may be some things we need to look at. We'll get back to it. This isn't about this bill, but it's something we can look forward to. This is, of course, mainly about the period vision directive, which means that by 1 January 2022 we must ensure that rules are implemented for the periodic vision, and this is where we have introduced this alternative road safety measure, which we think is the most effective, by introducing roadside vision instead of a real periodic vision. It has been important for me to examine the possibility of introducing this alternative measure, because in this way we can both ensure something that is effective and that helps to ensure road safety, but which, at the same time, is also less intrusive to motorbike owners than it would be if a fixed periodic vision were required. After all, there is a big difference between how often such a motorcycle is used. There are some who use it as a distinct leisure activity, and others for whom the use of it is a more everyday phenomenon, because they use it as a means of transport, and therefore use it more often, and therefore there will also be a great difference in the need to do real regular periodic vision. As I said, there is also the small detail that, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen also mentioned in his rapporteur's speech, is relatively easy to make the technical adjustments that need to be made so that such a periodic vision will never catch that the motorcycle has been manipulated so it noisy more. As regards Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's comments on the concerns which include: I can also confirm what Kristian Pihl Lorentzen pointed out, namely that there are some motorcycles, for example. is of a more historic nature, and there are some other rules that apply. There are less fixed definitions in terms of noise. On the other hand, I am sure that the people of the Danish Trade Administration will be able to handle that. As a general rule, this gives us an extra opportunity to control the illegal noise caused by motorcycles. It has also been said by several rapporteurs that this is something that many of us have been asked about, that is to say that citizens see it as very annoying, especially when it sounds like they have not only removed the noise reduction with which the motorcycle is designed, but that they have done what they could to make it noise extremely loud. It is a good thing that we have an opportunity here to do something extra with additional regulatory control. Then there have been questions about the viewing fee, and I just want there for the sake of good order and also in response to Mr. Skibby's comments • point out that, as it is now, we are actually charging too much in fees, so the purpose of the exercise is to start by actually reducing the fee so that the profit generated by the scheme is settled. And then it is clear that at some point you have to find the right balance, so that it becomes a cost-effective fee that you pay, and so that we do not have to go back here in the Folketing every time you have to make an adjustment to that fee, it is up to you to give this ministerial authorisation, but what is important here is that it should also be in order to establish that the fee originally provided for in the legislation itself has been too high, and that is not appropriate. So I agree: this should not be a fee screw, and that is not what has been proposed either. I would, of course, be very happy to reply to the question of how to arrive at the actual calculation of the fee in relation to this; we will also be happy to return to that in writing. It is also important, of course, that the supervisory board's supervision in the field of vision is as effective as possible. Several of the rapporteurs have also pointed out that there is also a question of the effectiveness of this. This should not affect, for example. other authorities' time, police time, etc. And it is therefore the case that here too we believe that we have found the necessary balances in relation to it. For the sake of order, sir. Henning Hyllested's comment I see as more general, also in relation to some of the other debate that we have today, that is to say the whole question of what tasks the management of the trade should carry out. I see it not so much as an expression of what is about the material aspects of the bill here, but more like a general view. And it is quite fair that you have such concern. It is not the government's intention that the Danish Trade Administration should be a police number 2 or something like that, but it is simply that it makes good sense to bring the special competences of the Danish Trade Administration's employees, among other things. about the technical arrangement of motor vehicles, in play. It is clear that one can well imagine that there will also continue to be close cooperation; that is, there will be close cooperation between the police and the Customs Authority, also on this point, as there are many other points. Some of the controls that are being carried out today in other areas are also carried out jointly by the authorities in order to ensure that the police have the necessary and special powers to deal with certain types of vehicles. And it has to be said that there may be some elements, especially on some of the older vehicles, which may be nice to have at hand when you are out in relation to it. I think I will agree with my comments on this, and I look forward to the committee's reading and, of course, will be available for follow-up questions during it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130172629	A follow-up question, or perhaps a brief comment, comes from Mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130172635	Thank you. The minister mentions this very thing with the competences that the Danish Trade Administration certainly has in the field, which is then put into play. But next door, you have similar powers with the police. Now I may also be talking a little more generally, and not just about motorcycles, but of course I am also talking about motorcycles, in relation to the fact that we are gradually building up this dual system of authorities, which will then have to control it. We also see it in the bill in connection with the registration number involvement, which is now passed on to the administrative method used by the Danish Trade Administration, which is much more long-term, and in which I think that the possibilities of the police being able to act quickly on anything other than the most alarming cases in which a vehicle is a danger to its surroundings, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130172731	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130172733	It is the case that you do not choose when you will be stopped on your motorcycle by the Danish Road Safety Authority and will be checked it could also be the police, but you do not choose when you will be stopped. It'll be randomized, it'll be random if you're stopped. And it is clear that there may be some situations where a vehicle is simply banned from driving. This is a special situation. However, in the vast majority of cases, where such a roadside view triggers something that requires that you subsequently have to go to a vision and have a period of vision in relation to something that you consider not serious, but nevertheless will require you to get past a workshop and get it sighted, it would seem disproportionately violent if you were to withdraw the license plate immediately on the spot. And that is also why we are putting forward this step-by-step process, which is really the harmonization of practices in this area, in relation to what is being done in other areas with regard to the time limits for vision.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130172844	Here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130172846	But that process is also more lengthy in relation to the process that the police can use if they want to. Today it is the case that you can withdraw the license plate, but not just in cases where you impose a driving ban. There may be other situations. And that is where I think the police are now simply being deprived of the possibility of using that method in other than the most serious cases, and that a much, much more slow procedure is being used, in which case the police will have to wait for a request from the Administration to withdraw the license plate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130172918	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130172920	As I said, therefore, it is the assumption that in the vast majority of cases where this is necessary, it is something that needs to be adjusted and adapted, and it is not a place where a genuine driving ban is to be imposed. As I said, this can be done if it is deemed necessary. But fortunately, in the vast majority of cases this will be something that requires some kind of adjustment or adjustment, and it may well be that it is supplemented by a fine which is also being imposed. But this is reasonable, even in view of the fact that it may seem unnecessarily hard to withdraw the license plates on the spot.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130173000	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thanks to the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130173014	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130173034	Thank you for that, President. I should like to begin by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for the great commitment they have shown in the conduct of driving tests, particularly by the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Kristian Pihl Lorentzens. After all, this is an area covered by a conciliation involving all parties in the Folketing other than the Left. It's like part of the police settlement. Nevertheless, it is important that we focus on this issue, because it affects the lives of a great many people, and that is why I am also pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss it in the Chamber today. The majority of the population gets a driving licence or obtains it after a driving test, which is why this driving training needs to be carried out. This also applies to business, where a driving licence can most often be the prerequisite for getting a job in the transport industry. At the same time, I am well aware that for an unacceptable period of time the running of driving tests has been marked by major waiting times problems. This is not a new phenomenon, because it is from 1 October that the Danish Trade Administration has taken over responsibility, but it is also well known that there have been waiting times problems before that time. It is therefore crucial that the area is restored and normalised, and this is a task that the Danish Trade Administration is undertaking. I would like to take a short trip back to December 2020, because a political decision was taken here, which has thus become a key issue for driving licences. It is mostly known that the government, together with the vast majority of the Danish Parliament's parties, reached an agreement on the police and prosecutor's economy for 2021 to 2023, and here it was an essential element that a number of road traffic tasks were to be assigned from the police to the works council, which meant among other things. As I have said, the area of driving licences and the removal of driving licences per year. October 1st this year was due to meet in one place, namely at the Danish Federation of Trades. However, the motion for a resolution, which has been tabled a few days after the transfer of the order, wants to require the government to submit proposals for initiatives before the end of this parliamentary year and to call for discussions to ensure that the waiting time requirements for the theoretical and driving tests are complied with. It is hoped that students will be offered free tests if the service objective is not met, and that the government will also be required to investigate the possibilities of using private operators to conduct theoretical and driving tests. Many, including the industry itself and the Left, have welcomed the resort transfer because now the area can have the renewal that it has long needed. I welcome the support for this, and it is important for me to stress that the most important and important step towards significant and lasting improvements has already been taken, because that is what happened with the transfer of the resort. Now the Danish Trade Administration has been responsible for driving tests for just over two months, and despite a rather turbulent start, where a large area of operation was taken over, where it must be said that this was a huge backlog of driving school students waiting for a driving test, we have to note that for the first time in a long time it has begun to lighten. At present, the Danish Transport Authority is running weekly between 8,000 and 8,500 driving tests, which is equivalent to 15 per cent. more samples than at the beginning of the period, i.e. before October 1st, and that's probably as important as it is more than when the police took care of the area. On average, the police settled between 6,500 and 7,000 driving tests weekly if we turn back to more normal times before the covid. The Ministry of Trade has managed to halt the unfortunate development with an increasing number of students waiting for a test, and the Board has already launched a number of initiatives which demonstrate their willingness and ability to fulfil the task assigned to them. And it is my expectation that this positive development will continue in the coming months as the board of directors gets a better foothold in the area. However, as I have also said several times, it will also take a little time before we go all the way to reducing waiting times and getting what can be called the coronapukuklen in this area planned off. But it is also an area where there is also a need for updating and for innovation, for not least the development of new and digital solutions, because some of the challenges are also in the old systems that have been worked on so far. And even if everyone wants it, it is not something that has happened overnight in terms of creating these new digital systems, and it is about everything from the booking systems themselves, which the Danish Trade Authority itself does not have directly at its disposal, to some of the old systems, the driving licence systems, which, in fact, are still what the police are working with, but which need to be transformed into new and more modern systems. The Danish Transport Authority has learned a lot in a short time, and I believe that the board now needs to be able to carry out this task, so that lasting improvements can be allowed to materialize. That is why I would also like to encourage a little bit of caution in relation to the impatience and expectation of immediate changes and improvements that are with the proposers. It is far too early to start thinking in further initiatives, which will expect only to work against the work that has already been undertaken, such as: We have had a recent consultation, where we also discussed this on an hourly basis, have the opportunity to send travel teams to the country, have the opportunity to move employees from one area to another, when there is a special need there to run driving tests etc. For this reason, I and the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. However, I am looking forward to following developments and discussing the momentum with the other parties, including the Left, so that we are sure to be able to get the goods delivered, and of course I would remind you that the parties that have been involved in concluding the agreement on this have already been invited for information with the Danish Road Traffic Authority, but also have the possibility of being kept informed of the progress of the Danish Road Traffic Authority in this area at any time, if needed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130173738	Thank you. And there is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130173743	Thank you to the Minister for the relatively friendly rejection of the motion for a resolution. I would like to sign that there has been a positive development over the last few weeks: the Danish Trade Administration has managed to increase the production of samples, and that is what is crucial if we are to have the hump settled. After all, this proposal has been formulated just a few months ago. If we have chosen to stick to it, then three things are the result. Firstly, the many requests I am getting, which I believe my fellow rapporteurs will also receive, about this area, not only from driving schools, but also from ordinary citizens, from industry and from vocational schools and in relation to apprentices and so on. The second reason is that at some point the Minister made a statement that it would probably be at least a few years before you are in balance, and we think that is very, very unambitious, and that is one of the reasons why I think we need this debate today and that focus. And the third thing is the service target. There were police service targets, which we did not observe, that you had to have a test, two weeks after the driver had stopped. And these are the three reasons why we have chosen to maintain the proposal and have looked forward to this debate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130173853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130173854	I should just like to clarify what the rapporteur of the Left forgot: when I have talked about up to a few years, it is about getting the full transmission, including all the IT systems that need to be changed to give a much more smooth and smoother handling of the driving licence. I do not expect two years to pass before we have planned down the waiting-time humps as there are. However, to be fully in line with the fact that we cannot just say that now it is at least as good as the police or a little better, and that we now have something that is significantly better, that is, there may well be some time left. I think everyone can see that too: when the IT systems are not ready at all and you simply take over the police IT systems, there will be some time. However, the fact that one has recruited hour-paid test experts and has temporarily been lent to police officers and that one has called for driving licences to be booked only within one's own local area, so that one can avoid the hoarding of driving tests and that, moreover, theoretical tests are being carried out for a much longer period than has been used to, is a clear improvement in the service which is already there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174002	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174003	Well, that clarification about the two years I'm glad to hear. I'd like to sign for that. It is clear that the digitalisation of e.g. theoretical tests are something we have been missing for many years, which has been tried and which is a success. It's just never been implemented in the police, so it's something we look forward to very much. But what remains is the service target that the government has renovated. Because we have increased the fee for the police settlement from DKK 600. for 1000 kroner. That is an increase of 66 per cent. At the same time, the objective has been relaxed. I think a lot of people have a hard time understanding that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174040	As I understand the Danish Trade Administration, their philosophy here is to have a goal in which one can reasonably count on one month, from the time one has taken a theoretical test, completed and completed it, until one can then get a practical test. Because this is about the time that passes in driving licences, so that it will be much better and much easier to plan, both for driving schools and for driving pupils, but also, of course, to the highest extent, for the works council, so that they will also be able to send people to where the need is greatest.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174116	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. And then we start with the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174142	Thank you, President. Today we are going to deal with this motion for a resolution by the Left on the conduct of driving and theoretical tests. As you know, there has been a challenge with the conduct of driving and theoretical tests for a very long period of time, and this is of course not satisfactory for people who want to take a driving licence. The Pukl has mainly inherited from the National Police when they took over responsibility for this on October 1, 2021, which we decided in the police settlement. And besides that, the reasons are also several: The hump is also due to temporary conditions due to corona shut-down, just as the drivers have taken in more riders than usual due to the corona shut-down. Finally, there has also been some as a result of the resort transfer to Færdselsstyrelsen. So there are several reasons why we stand where we stand. I understand very well that people who experience these genes with long waiting times are unhappy, of course. It's not fair to have to wait that long. That is why it is good that we are in the process of correcting the situation. In December 2020 the government concluded the police agreement together with a very broad majority of the Danish People's Party, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Enhedslisten, Conservative People's Party and New Citizens' Party. And with the exception of the Left, who chose to be outside the agreement. With the agreement it was decided to resort the conduct of theoretical and driving tests, the issue and administration of driving licences, and the issue of tachograph cards from the police to the Danish Federal Ministry of Transport. The purpose was to overcome the waiting problems that have been encountered while it has been under the Kingdom police. So with the agreement, we put together the driving licence area in one place, and that's the Customs Authority. That's one of the rewards. better opportunity to distribute samples to those parts of the country where the need is greatest. In this way, we can take action where the problems are greatest, rather than the students having to drive around the whole country looking for a place with a short waiting time. There will be a better service for both drivers and drivers. As I said, the transfer to the Danish Trade Administration came into force on 1 October 2021. The motion for a resolution was then tabled a few days after the passing of the driving test, a resolution for which the Left was keenly in favour, but which was then left outside because the Left was not involved in the police settlement. With this motion for a resolution, the Left will now require the government to present proposals for initiatives and to call for discussions to ensure that the service requirements are respected in relation to the waiting times for theoretical and driving tests. And then you will also give free tests to drivers where the service requirement is not met. The Left will also explore the possibilities for private actors to conduct more driving and theoretical tests. We in the Social Democratic Party cannot support this, both because increased use of private actors will lead to uneven running of tests and because free tests will create a deficit business, as the fee will cover the driving test costs. But also because it is the expectation that the resort transfer of the conduct of the theoretical and driving tests from the police to the works council will lead to shorter waiting times for driving tests when fully implemented. It is clear that waiting time does not disappear from the first day, and it has also been clearly reported by the Minister. There is some way again before the humps are completely settled, but we are on the right path. The Danish Transport Authority should make work peace move forward with the task solution, which is why it is not the right time to launch further new initiatives to improve efficiency. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174533	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174537	Thank you, and thank you for the relatively friendly rejection. I can assure you that we welcome the fact that the task has come over to the Danish Trade Administration, and we would like to back them up one hundred percent. Then it sounds as if they are going to have a lot of work to do, and that means that we must not really talk about it politically; there I see it as helping the Customs Authority, also to all the other state authorities and granting authorities, that we are actually politically focused on this, and therefore I think it is good that we have this debate today. It must be seen as a help and not as the opposite. I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party supports a number of measures that can be taken here and now, for example, trying to get as many people as possible to work overtime to get rid of the hump, that overtime can be paid out, because I understand that there are enough resources in the system, that you make an emergency team with test experts you can gather and, for example, that there are enough resources in the system. can be put into the capital, where the problem is far greater, that you also try to recruit some retired test experts and others who can solve this task, and that you may even borrow someone from the defense, by the fact that the Danish Trade Administration pays the salary, thus refunding the salary to the defence. Does the Social Democratic Party agree that such a wide range of measures should be taken to get beyond the steppes as soon as possible and that this should be a strong political signal to the Danish Trade Authority?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174655	When I say that I think that the works council should be quiet, that means that we should not come up with all sorts of ideas about privatising this task. On the specific issues of overtime, I should like to say that I do not need to get involved in agreements. Let's take a look. If there is a possibility and there are no problems that way and the Danish Trade Administration sees it as a way forward, it is not something I have anything against in principle. In relation to an emergency team, there is already a travel team today, for example. to the Amu schools, where there are some people travelling to where it is needed and helping, so that kicks Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen an open door in. And then there's the thing about calling some retired people who may have previously been employed in the National Police, and there it is already the case today that you are actually trying to recruit some of those who used to be in the National Police to do the job, and I think that some people are already employed for it, so it's like kicking in an open door again. So all in all, good input is good, but it's nice that the Danish Trade Administration has also come up with those ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174757	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174758	Thank you so much for that announcement. I think that is actually important for the Danish Trade Administration to know: that you have political support for using a wide range of instruments, including that you can also spend money on it. I would like to point out that the Left does not have a specific proposal to privatise it here at all, but we would like to see the possibilities examined so that in a few years' time, if this proves not to work, and I believe that it will work, we will have an instrument. It's been introduced with visual halls, and it sort of works fine. We have no current plans to privatise this, but we would have liked to have looked into the possibilities and have the Minister's comments on those options.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174837	Well, thank you; I am glad that the Left has no intention of doing so. For out of the last 20 years, we have had the 14 years of bourgeois governments, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has been a transport rapporteur for 16 years now, and I know that these ideas have been used to do so, but it has not been introduced simply because it would cause more problems than it alleviates. So I would like to say: ask the Minister. However, I can see that there will be a lot of problems if we start playing with the priority idea, and we should not start at all at this moment, when the task has just been assigned to the Danish Trade Authority, and, as I see it, the task is very constructive, which can also benefit the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174918	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. There are no more brief comments. Then we have reached the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130174934	Thank you. I would like, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, to acknowledge the diligence of the Left in presenting this motion for a resolution. It may be thought that it is a few months late, but on the other hand, it is something that we, as transport rapporteurs, have been familiar with repeatedly because of the many inquiries that we have been making over a long period of time. Unfortunately, both in vocational schools and in companies, not least apprentices, but also employees in various occupations, have felt the frustration and irritation and also the difficulty of being allowed to do their job at all. Unfortunately, that is what has been the consequence for a long time. Well, we've offered something when there were these reorganisations in relation to where the assignments were supposed to be. That is true, and we in the Danish People's Party also acknowledge this, that one must of course also have the opportunity to put things into a system in the Danish Trade Administration and elsewhere and to get the store going to run and theory tests. And the figures are going the right way, but that does not change the fact that we have come awfully far behind and that this has been something for which we have had a great deal of criticism politically. That is why we in the Danish People's Party are happy that the Left chooses to flag this frustration here in the Danish Parliament, although we all seem to have a presumption that it is going the right way. But it's a schism we're in. Many years ago we chose to make a service requirement, namely that, in connection with people being searched by their driving instructor to be ready for their driving test or theoretical test, it should be possible to accept that the test is held within 14 days. It is said that it is a requirement, but now it has just become an indicative requirement. Well, this is Danish for beginners. It cannot be both a requirement and a guideline. In my optics, it's totally sticky, and it sounds a little weird. But that's what we're into. That is why we also share the Left's scratch brush, in that we have to set some things in motion. In fact, we think it makes sense to have a look at these different conditions and also in the longer term to have a look at this discussion on outsourcing. However, the pursuit of competition is something other than outsourcing and privatising. We need to examine how many visual and theoretical tests can actually be carried out on a qualified basis at a given price. Whether it is carried out by a private company or by a state player is, from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, deeply irrelevant. We have our entire state pilotage system; whether there will be pilotage in Denmark by a landlady, or whether it is some from private pilotage services, it doesn't matter as long as there is pilotage, so we get the ships safely in port or safely through Danish territorial waters. It must be the same with regard to these driving tests. We can support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left. We are, of course, well aware that there is no majority in favour of this, and then we must of course just choose to see it as an opportunity to clarify that those service requirements must be met, that we must have them on the right path and that it should not be something where one or two years are going to pass, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen also mentioned. We support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130175335	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130175347	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that, of course, I understand the concerns and frustrations of the Left about the long waiting times for driving tests and theoretical tests. It is a pity, and it is far from satisfactory, that in several parts of the country there are weeks and months of waiting for the tests. There is also in Sjællands Storkreds, where I myself have been chosen. This is especially true, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen mentions, in addition to the young people who have often looked forward to taking a driving licence and may even depend on it in relation to jobs and education. It is also something that I have had citizens' concerns about. There are several of us in this room who have, and that is why I am naturally concerned. The problem is due to the backlog that has come after the driving tests were handed over from the police to the Danish Customs Authority, which is something that the Left itself has fought for. But for the sake of good order, you might also have to point out that there are other variables in the equation. For example, Corona is... One thing. I believe that the Minister of Transport is actually doing a great deal to overcome this problem. That is why I have been very pleased to hear that 15% are currently running. more driving tests than in the past, trying to get rid of this. I have every confidence that we will make up for this. I have no doubt about that. It is clear, of course, that this must be done as quickly as possible. I do not think, however, that outsourcing and privatisation are the solution, I would say to Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Probably won't surprise him. Instead, I think that we should work with a little determination to shorten the waiting times in the current system, and I really think that is what we are doing. I'm really glad to hear that. And then we must ensure that in future we comply with the service requirements in all cases. I also believe that this is the ambition of the Minister. So we in the SF look forward to following the development and impact of the initiatives listed by the Minister and already taken by the Færdselsstyrelsen before we make new demands. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130175622	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130175627	Thank you to Mrs Valentina Berthelsen for her relatively friendly rejection. We fully agree to welcome the fact that things are going the right way. Production has increased, and that is very good, but it does not matter that we are also just checking that we have some other tools in the toolbox, in case it does not go against expectations? I also believe that we will achieve our goal. I believe it, and I hope we can speed it up. This is among other things. That is why we welcome this debate. But there is no harm in the fact that, first of all, we are examining the possibility that if we do not achieve the service objective we set politically and not administratively, we can say that the citizens do not have to pay a fee. After all, it is such a good means to have as a citizen and, secondly, that we are looking into the possibility in the long term, if there is a need, to let private operators in here, for example, as an experimental scheme? It is not a concrete proposal from the Left now, I would like to stress again, but there is no harm in the fact that we are looking into the prospects for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130175724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130175725	If the Left has no concern as to whether this problem will be resolved, then I do not understand why we should investigate it. When we in the SF want to have things investigated, it is normal because we have a concern as to whether the problem is being solved. Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen e.g. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). However, if you are convinced that this will work out and you really have the confidence in the Minister, as I also hear the rapporteur of the Left and as we have in the SF, then I see no reason why we should spend resources on it. We have so many problems to solve, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130175801	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130175803	Well, you can with one hand do nothing and just hope and with the other hand do things and then see which hand is most in. There is a very serious situation in this area. We are starting to work the hump down, but there is a long way to go, and that is why we believe it is timely care to have some alternative solutions examined if this fails. We hope that these solutions will not be used and we do not expect a comprehensive Commission study. We just expect a quiet and calm assessment of the legal aspects and so on. e.g. to make a private solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130175836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130175836-2	I'm like sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen probably expected a little bit of shit about this privatisation thing. I think we have plenty of examples in the transport sector that privatisation and outsourcing have not gone quite as planned. Now SF's heart child is the railroad. I understand, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, that right now it is the driving tests that are his heart child, and I would hate to see the heart child undergo the treatment that the outsourcing has subjected the railway to. So I think we shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130175910	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Valentina Berthelsen. Then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130175922	Thank you. In other words, radicals are totally behind the transfer of the resort from the police to the works council of the area we are talking about today and, as the Minister also indicated, things are now in a good state of affairs where the production of driving tests is up to a level where you start to dismantle the hump that is there. It's going the right way. It is also clear that once we have supported the transfer of the resort from the police to the Customs Authority, we are interested in making it work and not in searching for other solutions here and now. We will not support the motion for a resolution for that reason alone, but also because of the proposal for free tests for non-testing, which we do not think is a good idea. I have a son myself who has been in line to try to take a driving test, and it has been difficult for him. That is, of course, a nuisance, but the situation is also improving. So, although we recognise the intention of the proposal, we do not intend to support it, but thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130180017	Thank you. There is no brief comment to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, so we move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130180028	Let me say straight away that the Enhedslisten does not support this motion for a resolution. B 5. I think that, in the light of the Minister's speech and in the light of the exchange of words which also took place between the Minister and the author of the motion, Mr President. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, may ask himself whether now the problem is also so great even. In any case, it can be said that the problem is rapidly being resolved. At least that's what I got out of the talk that happened there. So we can ask ourselves whether the author of the motion for a resolution should have maintained it, because I believe in many ways that what lies in the motion for a resolution is being implemented. We do not deny that there have been such problems and that, of course, this is primarily a problem for young people who need a driving licence for their work or their apprenticeship, for example. We also had a proposal that could work in this way immediately, because we could, for example, do it. temporarily suspend the right of 17-year-olds to take the driving licence. They are not going to drive alone anyway, and surely do not need a driving licence as much as young people who need it in connection with an education or vocational school or something like that. You could do that. In any case, as proposed in the motion for a resolution, we do not want to give priority to funding under the Finance Act, so we do not want to take funds out of the scope. I must say here that we are giving priority to various welfare measures and to efforts for the green transition. After all, we think that this is something more important than getting rid of these humps, as it can be seen that they are in the process of being phased out, and there is a lot going on. I think it must be admitted that there has been a resort transfer, and such a thing takes time, and that, of course, leads to child diseases, especially if new IT systems and such things are to be implemented. To start proposing the outsourcing and privatisation of this, I think is crazy. I've heard sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says that this is not what you want, but nevertheless it is in the B proposal as a possible temporary solution, I understand it should be. Nevertheless, I believe that there are enough considerations in the Left about this at all, and we will reject that at any time. Yeah, I think that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130180316	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130180319	Sir. Henning Hyllested questioned whether the problem is basically major. To that I can answer a resounding question: Yes, it is great. We can look at this in terms of the number of requests from many different countries, including the apprentices who must bear the brunt of not being able to obtain a driving licence and move on with their training. Then Mr. Henning Hyllested that this problem is in the process of rapid resolution or that there is a rapid solution. I guess it's just a little too full for you, too. We welcome the fact that things are now moving in the right direction and that careful gnawing of the hump has begun, but we are far from achieving it. Now I know Enhedslisten as an optimistic party in many ways, but it was perhaps quite optimistic about this. Then there is the question of examining the possibility of privatising. It's just an assessment of what we want, so we get a tool in the box. If, in the long term, it turns out that this could be a solution, then an experimental system could be put in place with it, not a temporary one. But it is not a tool that we are going to resort to now. Now we're gonna have to give the Department of Commerce the opportunity to get this hump out of here as soon as possible, and that's the clear political signal from all of us, I can hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130180427	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130180428	Yeah, another tool in the toolbox was kind of what I suggested. It could be implemented immediately, I believe. It is, after all, about saying that we then temporarily suspend the right of 17-year-olds to take a driving licence. They don't have that need. They're not going to drive alone anyway, like I said. So it was an opportunity. I do not know how many young people that includes and how much help it will be. I don't have any numbers on that. I haven't checked that, but I think it might help something. And when sir... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen thought I was equally optimistic, I would say that what I said was, in fact, just something I was listening to in the exchange between the Minister and Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, where I, like myself, took the view that we are very much on the right track. You can always judge if it's fast enough. I agree with that, but I got the impression that it is going the right way, as the proposer also says. I also believe that things are moving in the right direction, but obviously we disagree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130180528	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. And then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130180536	Thank you very much for that and thank the author of this motion for a resolution. Before the Danish Trade Administration took over the task of conducting driving and theory tests per year. October 1, 2021, there was a long, long draw on both theory and driving tests. That is still there, despite the progress that has been made. This is a great nuisance for all those who are ready to take a test. They simply cannot get to it. As an inexperienced driver, you need to build up experience, but they are prevented from doing so. Experience can only come from continuing to take driving hours, which is an expensive circumstance. At the same time, it puts a strain on the training of new drivers, as drivers cannot take in new students either, as the old people cannot take tests and therefore continue to book driving times to keep their driving at the same time. Earlier in the summer of 2021, we have presented the Minister with the problem of the long waiting times for both theory and driving tests, which were then under the authority of the police. He remarked that one should not wait too long to get to the driving test. Many driving teachers and students have experienced great discomfort in waiting times, and I have a huge understanding of that. We are getting a lot of inquiries, as the proposer mentioned earlier, both from private individuals, from drivers and from companies in particular in the transport and passenger transport sectors, which cannot, of course, be trained either for heavy goods vehicles or for drivers of private cars. It was therefore my clear expectation that the police and police circles would do their utmost to reduce the waiting time for driving tests as quickly as possible. We also impressed on the National Police at the time, which is why it is also my conviction and my expectation that the resort transfer of driving and theory tests from the police to the Danish Customs Authority from October 2021 would have led to shorter waiting times for driving tests when it was fully implemented. It's gonna take a while. We can agree on that. We hope that the proposer will take it in committee, where we will then have the opportunity to discuss whether, instead of flagging with the huge flag, we might be able to put down some fence posts which say that what will we do next if the objectives we want to achieve do not reach within a reasonable period of time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130180817	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130180834	I should also like to say nothing more than that I am in agreement with what the Conservative rapporteur has said. I think we should look at this in committee and see what else we can do. We are also very much in favour of many of the measures contained in this resolution. So it's with a wish that we sit down and look at it. We think that is quite, quite fine. So we're positive from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130180859	Thank you. There are no brief comments, thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130180908	Often one is faced with the dilemma of wanting to do good, that what is good in the long term can hurt in the short term. This is also known from child rearing. It may be easier at the dinner table just to let the child get his way, but in the long term, if one always lets the child get his way, one sometimes has to make a long-term decision and say no, and that is what is the case here. The long-term decision has been taken to reorganise the driving test to the Customs Authority from the police, where it was not very good, and at that time it was well known that in the short term it would lead to a transitional arrangement where there were problems with winding up as quickly as in the old model, but, on the other hand, it was also expected that in the longer term it would be a much more efficient system. And now, according to the Minister of Transport, we have already come across the point where the Danish Trade Administration is running the tests faster than the police did in the old days, and this is, in fact, relatively fast. But there is a hump from the months when you didn't do it, and the corona has also led to a hump. So the very problem that we have to get on track in order to get rid of humps and get things done faster is in good order; it is in progress. However, the motion for a resolution from the Left also contains some other things which may well be good in themselves. Whether things are in good shape or not, I still think it is a good idea that, if there is an unacceptable long wait to be put to the test, you should pay your public audition because you have waited too long. I think that is a good proposal, regardless of whether it is on its way and going well, and I think it is also a good proposal that we should look at whether there is an opportunity for private operators to come in and see if they can offer driving tests in a better way than the public authorities can. So, although we believe that things are clearly on the way to recovery, we can support the resolution because it contains some things that are good in themselves, regardless of the current situation of running the tests.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130181128	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130181131	Thank you. I can hear that the rapporteur is behind this in allowing private players to come into this area. After all, the rapporteur has been Minister for Transport in the past, and I know that earlier in the bourgeois camp we have been thinking about these lines. So I do not know whether we could perhaps have the rapporteur explain why the bourgeois government, the VLAK government, did not introduce it here. What problems were seen in the privatisation of the area?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130181158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130181159	No, the problem that was first and foremost at the time was that, although we in the Transport Committee had a great desire to transfer this task to the Customs Authority, we in the Ministry of Justice fought fiercely against this happening, and we, like ever, managed to convince the entire government, where the Ministry of Justice was very opposed to it, that it should happen. The Social Democratic Government then succeeded in knocking the Ministry of Justice into place here, and I have already hated that when it was implemented, and I am happy to do so again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130181237	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130181237-2	Thank you. But if we look at this in more concrete terms, has no thought been given to the fact that such privatisation could give rise to some complications? I mean, would you get riding school students tested at the right level across the country? Would there be a distortion between the country and the city, where perhaps there would only be some extras that would offer it here in the big cities, because there was a good businesscase there are many pupils, whereas in the sparser populated areas there might not be such a supply? Have such considerations been raised as to what non-impositions it would also create if that area were privatised?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130181319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130181319-2	I don't think we were that deep in it, because we just found that we couldn't even get it out of the hands of the Justice Department. Whatever we wanted to do with it, we couldn't get it out of the hands of the Justice Department. So we didn't get that far, but I don't really see why you should have those worries about country and city etc. After all, we have a privatised or offered system of vision today, and there we have no problem with the fact that in the countryside you cannot go to a view hall while in the city you can. So I do not think that these seem to be credible problems, as outlined there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130181356	Thank you. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130181414	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for a very good debate. I am sure that many people have followed it, because I know that it is about something that concerns and affects many people, and I think we have had a wonderfully good and constructive debate. I can see that this motion for a resolution is not going to be adopted as it stands, and I would not have expected that either. But the Left's primary objective with this is to focus on this problem and send out clear political signals that this is a very, very high priority, and that, as such, you also have political go to spend some money on this. Because is there any money? When we wrote the motion for a resolution, we wrote that we were willing to withdraw from the room if necessary. I am so glad to be able to say that there is no need to use the room for manoeuvre. The Minister of Transport has kindly replied to my question about resources, that there are, in fact, plenty of resources in the system, and it should also be, because the fee has been raised by 66 per cent. for 1,000 kroner. So it's not money we need. What's missing is we're gonna spend some money to get this hump out of here. What it takes to get this hump out of here is for us to spend some money. And there I would like to sign for the fact that the works council, which we are delighted to have taken over this task, has gone to the waffles and is implementing some of the proposals we had in the way we did when we wrote this proposal, namely on overtime and the payment of overtime if it cannot be taken off; that you hire policemen who would like to have an extra job. It is well known that the police have a lot of time off, just as I had it in the defense when I worked there every day. I also hope that some gray-haired test experts, the gray gold that is willing to give it a shell here, and I am sure there are many who are. And I also hope that you will look into the possibility of using the many test experts who are in the defence around us and who could possibly give a hand with it until the hump is gone. It is very good that production has increased, but we have nevertheless chosen to maintain this resolution. First of all, I have to say that my neck hair began to rise a little when the Minister talked about the fact that it would be at least a couple of years before we were in a good balance with this. I now understand, and it is good that it has been clarified today, that it was the full implementation of digitalisation and other measures too, and I am pleased about that, because we should be able to balance supply and demand for these driving tests a long time before two years. Otherwise, it is an intolerable situation and will be particularly so at a time when we have a desperate shortage of drivers. After all, this is also a problem that we are discussing constructively and discussed only last week in a consultation with the Minister. We lack drivers at all levels of management and bordering to taxis, to buses and to trucks. Thousands of drivers are not exactly helping the situation if you cannot get young people through a driving test for driving licences. So this is a basic problem that we're going to have to do in addition to the steppes. With regard to the other elements of the proposal, there is the matter of having a press ball called "Can you not comply with the service requirement, then you do not have to pay a fee'. In fact, I think that is a good principle, which could also be used elsewhere in the public sector. If the public service does not provide the service to which you are entitled, well, then you should not pay for it. Because this is something we pay for ourselves. This isn't something that's being covered by taxpayers. The individual student pays for the public service, which is to carry out a test so that he becomes a safe driver. I think that is actually a very reasonable principle. What we are discussing now is what I see has been relaxed: the service objective. This has not been discussed politically, and I am rather sorry that we have not discussed it in the rapporteur's group. What is actually the politically set target for driving tests? Is it two weeks like the police had? Is it perhaps four weeks that we now hear is the target? I think we should take a political decision on this, and I can then call on the Minister to discuss it politically with a view to perhaps reaching an agreement. I think it is important for the Danish Trade Administration that they get support for their task solution by having clear political goals and the money goes with the • and the money is there, as I said. Then there's the thing about the opportunities to make use of private players. This is something we want investigated, as it says explicitly, in order to strike a balance, but we cannot rule out the need for us to go a step further in 2, 3, 4 years' time. This has certainly been done successfully in rural areas with regard to the auditoriums. I should say that the Ans visual hall is doing the job in an excellent way, and Ans is not a very large city, it is located in Central Jutland, and that is how many small towns have a visual hall, and it actually works well under the supervision of the authorities. In the same way, if it becomes a private scheme, it should not be done without supervision, because there it is the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that it is done properly. However, as I said, this is not a concrete proposal from the Left now. That was just something we wanted to assess, and we hope that the Minister will give it to us. We could ask the Minister a question and ask for an assessment of it. However, as I said, I thought it was a very good debate. I would also like to welcome the rapporteur of the Christian Democrats, Mr President. Jens Rohde, and say that he can also endorse the motion for a resolution. Now I would suggest that we send the proposal to the committee and look at it to see if some adjustments can be made so that we can meet around these things, but if we can't, we'll just put it to the vote in the Chamber. The good thing about this is that we have now had a brilliant debate. We have got lots of constructive proposals on the table. It can be seen out there that this is something that the transport rapporteurs and the Minister care about, so I think there is now an expectation that we are gathering strength to solve this. It is and remains a bottom-up task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130182014	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130182017	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen for a very good debate. After all, it is a little strange that Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is throwing himself so far into this debate, because the fact is that the Left is not part of the police agreement. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen isn't even involved in this. That is something all of us other parties are. So is this an expression of the fact that the Left has had to be true, that it was stupid for the party not to join the police settlement and that it is therefore on the way to asking the other parties to join the police settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130182050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130182051	Now it went just as well. I think we had a proper and sober debate, and then Mr. Thomas Jensen to bring some quite other things into it. I think so, sir. Thomas Jensen knows that the Left was in favour of us moving this over to the Danish Federation and that the Left was in favour of a whole range of other good elements in the police settlement. When we are not in that conciliation, it has quite different reasons, for example. Something about breaking the tax stop. Mr. Thomas Jensen has nothing to do with driving tests.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130182115	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130182118	Thank you. Well, it is now with the police settlement that this has been split up, so that the Department of Trade has been given responsibility for it. And it is not really a follow-up question that I am making, it is really just a comment, because I can also hear from Kristian Pihl Lorentzen that he was very concerned that we should make sure that this does not stand in the way of the lack of drivers either. And there I can inform Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says that the joyful thing is that the Danish Trade Agency actually hires people with a specific focus on getting the bulky car tests carried out. I think that this once again bears witness to the fact that the Danish Trade Administration is the right person to do the job and that they are doing it very well. They got off to a good start, and I am confident that they will be in line with the measures that we have also discussed today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130182159	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130182200	Well, that's good news. And then I would just like to say, as a rounding-off, that although the Left is not part of the police settlement, it should not prevent us from working tirelessly for the things that citizens need, including driving tests at the right time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130182218	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130182242	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130182249	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking you for the opportunity to discuss again the issue of Lynetteholm, not only because it is a matter that has recently been debated again in public, but also because the threat posed by climate change, among other things, is one of the threats. I believe that the capital of the country, Copenhagen, should be given more attention. Unfortunately, it is also a matter which can sometimes be seen as something that is misrepresented, sometimes even in direct contradiction with the truth. That is a pity, because unfortunately it also means that the discussion is sometimes conducted on the wrong basis. First, however, I would like to outline the motion for a resolution which we are going to be debating now. With the motion for a resolution, the proposers want to require the government to request the representatives of the State on the City & Port Board to work to put the construction work in connection with Lynetteholm on hold. It may not come as a surprise to the Enhedslisten and the proposers that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. But that does not mean that we cannot debate this issue well. As I have mentioned several times along the way here, there has actually been an incredibly thorough examination of the construction law that we adopted in the spring. This is due, among other things, to: The alternative rapporteur, Mr. Torsten Gejl, and this is also due to Enhedslisten's then rapporteur on the matter, who asked a lot of questions. Now you can say, was it only a pity that a lot of questions were asked? No, because these were relevant questions that were asked during the debate, which I had the opportunity to answer as well. I have also brought with me the many annexes which were forwarded to the Danish Parliament on the basis of the almost 200 questions that were asked, on the basis of the three technical reviews we carried out, and not least on the basis of the four consultations that were held during the proceedings of the Construction Act. And I acknowledge that because it is of course important that we have an enlightened basis for taking a political decision on whether or not to vote in favour of a project. It could be a very large majority of Parliament's parties... not Enhedslisten... and that's what democracy is like. But there is also reason, I think, to sign for Enhedslisten's commitment to Lynetteholm. The very idea of the new peninsula, that is to say, the exploitation of surplus land, created by the many buildings in Copenhagen, to protect climate at the same time, climate-proof the country's capital, while at the same time giving you the opportunity in the future to develop and create a coastal landscape that allows for recreational purposes. It is an idea that was originally created in the technical and environmental management of the City of Copenhagen under a mayor of Enhedslisten. This was where work began already in 2015 to find a place for future landfilling of land, because it was known that we have very much surplus land in the capital. Here it was precisely pointed out that land could be deposited in continuation of Refshaleøen, and it voted in favour of the Enhedslisten then in order to give a mandate to continue working on the Copenhagen City Hall. Now the situation is different. Well, let me now address the four arguments put forward by the proposers in order to stop the construction project. Firstly, we want the project to be stalled so that we can wait for the strategic environmental assessment that is being prepared. In connection with the second reading of the construction law for Lynetteholm, on the basis of a question put by the SF rapporteur, Mrs Valentina Berthelsen, I indicated that I was prepared to draw up a strategic environmental assessment. But let me just make it clear that it was and continues to be the view of the Ministry of Transport that we are not legally obliged to draw up a strategic environmental assessment; an assessment, which was also confirmed by the Attorney General in connection with the committee's examination of the Construction Act. The Smv is a political choice and, in my opinion, also a wise political choice, because it can be a good tool for further work. However, I do not believe that the preparation of the strategic environmental assessment suggests that we stop the installation of Lynetteholm, which is precisely not a project that makes sense in itself. Finally, it is important to stress that this issue was also clearly highlighted when the Danish Parliament passed the law earlier this year. In other words, there is nothing new in the matter since the Folketing last dealt with the issue of the smv. Then there is the question of our Swedish neighbours. I think it is important to bear in mind here that it was the clear assessment by the Danish environmental authorities that the cross-border environmental impacts of Swedish waters are negligible. Despite this assessment, Sweden was consulted and they pointed to the question of the importance of Lynetteholm for water flow in Øresund as well as the possible impact of the folding. Since then, meetings have been held between the Danish and Swedish authorities. The meetings referred to above include: As a result, on the basis of a precautionary principle, agreement has been reached on a third-party review of the hydraulic analyses of Lynetteholm's influence on water flow in Øresund. These are the hydraulic analyses carried out by DHI. As far as the folding of material is concerned, it is important to be aware that it is not a practice that has been invented for the occasion; it is actually quite normal. In order to be able to continuously monitor the folding work and intervene if the assessments in the environmental impact report do not prove to be valid against expectations, it is a requirement that City & Port should set up monitoring and monitoring should ensure that sediment is applauded only when there are no current conditions which mean that sediment conservation can cause damage to Swedish Natura 2000 sites. Of course, we listen to our Swedish neighbours and involve them at the same time in the monitoring programme. This also means that the Espoo process will continue and will continue throughout the period during which the collapse takes place. I therefore do not think that we are going to stop the Lynetteholm plant. And then I think it is important to add that this issue was also clearly highlighted before the Danish Parliament passed the law earlier this year, and since then the political follow-up group has also been regularly informed of the process of a political follow-up group established under the law. I would now like to turn my attention to the part of the resolution which deals with the economy. The comments on the motion for a resolution refer both to the conditions for the land required by the installation of Lynetteholm and to the potential subsequent development of Lynetteholm. As I explained during the discussion of the Construction Act in the spring, approx. 2.6 million t soil per year on average. Sensitivity calculations have been made for Lynetteholmen in the revenue for receiving down to 1.6 million. t land annually on average, or that the same amount of land is received, but at a price significantly lower than that provided. Against this background, a current operating income is created which is deemed to be sufficient to offset plant costs over time. An independent analysis of the link between land volumes and future demographic development in Copenhagen Municipality confirms the magnitude of the expected land volumes. In fact, the analysis shows that the estimate of future land volumes is conservatively set. Then there is the question of the economy. In the long-term vision for Lynetteholm, which among others. In the case of urban development, the plant is financed by surplus land, but in the long run. In this respect, unfortunately, the authors of the motion seem to have put forward a paragraph which is not correct. Thus the comments state that it is a prerequisite that BIOFOS' wastewater treatment plant should be moved to Avedoer Holme. That is not correct. Let me quote from the principle agreement concluded back in October 2018 between the then government and the City of Copenhagen: "It must be examined whether BIOFOS A/S may have an interest in a changed location of the Cleaning plant Lynetten. In this case, Lynetteholmen I/S may acquire the land which is currently used for the purification plant Lynette, provided that this can be done in an appropriate manner for all parties. The parties agree that efforts will be made to ensure that BIOFOS A/S has a basis for decision in order to move the treatment plant Lynetten in the long term. To that end, the State will provide the necessary legal basis. It is therefore not a prerequisite; and it is also, in the end, a decision taken by the owners of BIOFOS, not by the State. In addition, the comments on the motion for a resolution also state that articles from among others. B.T. questions the economy of the vision of the urban development of Lynetteholm. As I have just said, the economy itself rests on a fact such as B.T.'s reporters have never got an understanding of. It would simply go too far if I had to review and comment on the whole of B.T.'s coverage of this matter; but it is, as I have said, gratifying that the installation of Lynetteholm itself rests in itself. In fact, it has to be said that it is a wise idea that arose in the City of Copenhagen's technical and environmental management that one could find a place to place surplus land and at the same time climate-proof Copenhagen. That is why I also think that praise should be given to the responsible mayor, I am in fact a little in doubt, whether the rose should then belong to Morten Kabel or the current mayor. I therefore believe that it does not say that the installation of the peninsula itself is paused by Lynetteholm, a peninsula where there is a good economic business and business case. Finally, there is the question of an overall plan for the flood protection of the metropolitan area. I understand from the comments on the resolution that Enhedslisten believes that there is no need to act actively now. I disagree with that view; not least when reading the projections based on the latest IPPC reports, I have to say that climate protection is urgent. Thus Lynetteholm will be involved in securing Copenhagen against the storm tide from the north, and it is also not the case that the work that Enhedslisten is calling for is not going on. There is a need to floodproof Copenhagen, and this can be done in several ways. Lynetteholm is a very good contribution in relation to storm flood protection from the north, but it also requires, of course, that a decision be taken at the same time to establish a gate in the long term so that water can be closed off if a storm flood occurs. If you made the assumption that you didn't build Lynetteholm, there would have to be another solution. It could, for example, be done. be a high dike from Refshaleøen to Kronrøbenhavn, which the Municipality of Copenhagen has assessed will cost approx. 800 million kr., and therefore it will not be financed by surplus land, one should remember. It is therefore money that is being saved instead, as Lynetteholm's economy, as I said, is resting in itself. The gate itself in the north must be examined further and not directly included in the Lynetteholm project, but the Ministry of the Environment is working with a global climate adjustment plan to be discussed with the conciliation parties next year. In this context, the Ministry of Transport carries out a pilot project on a global storm river model for Copenhagen, and a comprehensive solution from the south to the north is thus being looked at. But it does not say that the installation of Lynetteholm is being stopped, on the contrary. Lynetteholm will in any case fill in the majority of the entry in the north so that it will be possible to establish a port afterwards. Finally, I would like to mention briefly the application received by the Ministry from the climate movement that the vvm for Lynetteholm is flawed because, in their opinion, it should also have included visions for future urban development. As I see it, nothing new has emerged from the adoption of the Construction Act. It was then the Attorney General's assessment that there was no problem here. Since then, we have also been told by the European Commission that they have the same assessment. The Commission has clearly stated that an overall environmental impact assessment of future, undefined projects is not a requirement under the VVM Directive and the Commission concludes that it cannot identify a breach of the VVM Directive. However, it is, of course, ultimately up to the courts to deal with the matter, including taking a position on the issue of suspensive effect. I'll leave that to them. This resolution, which comes from the Enhedslisten, is about stopping Lynetteholm and one is tempted to say: as usual. I do not really think it is possible to say here too: as usual, that Enhedslisten makes its own offer of what we should do, in their view, in order to solve the problems that Lynetteholm could help solve. Where is it believed that surplus land from Copenhagen should then be placed? How was it to be transported there? Should you rather land the land somewhere on land, on Zealand, and build some high ramparts? And where is it supposed to be? Or is Enhedslisten's answer that there should be no land because you should stop building in Copenhagen altogether? What about climate protection? Is Enhedslisten's answer a high dike, and how is it to be financed? We should also bear in mind that surplus material would have to be applauded there. And in the longer term, where should people have the opportunity to live? Where should the cheap housing be, as the Enhedslisten also says you want? In the long term, it would be possible to establish this after 2035 if Lynetteholmen were to be established. Perhaps, after this review, I will just repeat for the record what I said at the outset in my speech, namely that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130183732	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and that is first Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130183737	I have to say that I became uneasy for half a second, as the Minister mentions this strategic environmental assessment and points out that it is not legally binding. No, that is true, and I was so afraid that the Minister would say that we are disregarding it. But I could understand that, after all, we do not do so, even if we can ask the legitimate question of what we are actually going to use it for afterwards, because it should have been done before, one might say. Enough about that. I just want to know if the Minister will confirm what he has said to B.T., namely that Lynetteholmen does not in itself secure Copenhagen against the storm tide. There was an article in B.T. where the Minister is then asked, and the Minister then says that it certainly requires a lockgate. But where is it that this lockgate is in all these documents and vvm surveys and yours and dut and that that belong to the project?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130183846	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130183847	I'm gonna have to correct sir. Henning Hylllested. I haven't given an interview to the daily B.T., and I haven't, because the daily B.T. has taken a wrong premise about the economy of Lynetteholm. The Ministry had to correct, simply make a written correction of an error in B.T., as B.T. I did not want to run for an interview with B.T. on the basis of this. At any time, but only sent them written quotes, because if you do not recognise the basic premise that the economy of the Lynetteholm plant is resting in itself, I do not think there is any reason to discuss with or make itself available to a journalist, because then the starting point is simply wrong in its basic form. It is true that Lynetteholm is part of a security and, as I have also said in my incredibly long speech, it must be supplemented by other measures. It acts among other things. about a port in the harbour that will have to be closed by storm tide, and it also requires dikes on Amager, and it also requires a gate or lock solution to the south.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130183958	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130183958-2	So the Minister agrees that the artificial peninsula that is being built will not in itself secure Copenhagen from the storm. A number of people in that article in B.T. The Minister of Transport hydraulicians). Yeah, exactly, and they're actually saying that this can really hurt worse as long as that peninsula is lying there, reducing the flow of water in the Øresund. Does the Minister agree with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184045	The water flow analyses are very, very clearly described by the hydraulics. Now I almost regret the fact that Mr. Henning Hyllested was on sick leave when we had the treatment of the construction law, because we had very thorough technical reviews of it here, and I would also like to offer that we can revisit some of these things in the subsequent committee, because there are answers to all these things. The idea is not that we should also make sure that Copenhagen is not protected by climate, because that would be a situation that would put Copenhagen in the same situation as New Orleans was in with Katrina, where we knew that one day there would be something that would hit New Orleans, which could cause floods. The necessary climate protection was not made in time, and we know how disastrous it would be. Of course, we also have to act in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184139	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184140	Thank you. Now there are many people who believe that this has gone too fast and that the biggest construction project in Danish history has been pulled down over the heads of the Copenhageners, the Danes, at a terrible rate. Among them is Mayor Marie Stærke in Køge, who is also Vice-President of the Social Democratic Party, who believes that the process of building Lynetteholmen has been far too closed. She writes: It makes me worry, skeptical. We have not known anything, and the process that I actually resent, because the municipalities should have been involved a long time before. That's why I'm working against it with my mayor colleagues. That's what she's telling me. Should you not at least pause the project so that you can convince your own mayors that Lynetteholmen is a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184229	Thank you. And just for the record, it is very good to indicate a source, when you quote, just for the sake of our rapporteurs. But here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184239	For the record, I'm gonna start by making a correction. For Mr. Torsten Gejl says "and I don't suppose that's a deliberate mistake." "that Lynetteholm should be the biggest construction project in Danish history." It's not. Whether you measure in physical conditions or you measure in the economy, there are many construction projects that significantly exceed it. Last night I was in Germany to take the first spade on the German side to the Fehmarn connection; it is a significantly larger construction project than Lynetteholm, just to put it in relief. In relation to the question of the surrounding municipalities, which are close to Køge Bay, it is true that there has not been any involvement of them, because environmental studies have shown that the waters there are and the coasts from them will not be affected at all by the clapping that has to take place many kilometres out in the Sound, as we have also been very clearly demonstrated in the review we have had from the hydraulics. And then I'll be able to answer the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184350	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184353	Thank you. I'm sorry if I made a mistake before. Well, the quote was by Marie Stærke, Mayor of Køge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184403	But where did the quote come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184406	Oh, okay. I'll be able to find out soon enough. What I wanted to answer in relation to the Minister's speech is that it is known that this has happened too quickly and that it has happened during a coronatide which has made it difficult to have a proper hearing and so on. If Lynetteholmen is such a good idea, why don't you pause it and take a discussion with the Danes, have a discussion with the Copenhageners, have a proper debate and get not just a political or a legal mandate but a popular mandate to do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184445	Let me finish what I couldn't finish before. I have offered to involve the municipalities, which, after all, will not affect their coasts, but will nevertheless be offered to involve them in the monitoring work. The idea is that they can get the same insight that the Swedish authorities can get into the monitoring work that is being set in motion in the task force that is being created there. The citizens have known about this for a long time and are, however, what is important to emphasise is that what we have decided is the construction of the peninsula alone. What is going to be the major development project has not yet been finalized; it is what urban development should be like, what infrastructure should be like. And all that's left out. There will be plenty of citizen involvement in this when the strategic environmental assessment is completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184536	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184538	Thank you. The minister said this isn't about making homes in the first place; it's about using some land. So my question is: if it is only about using land, why not create a dam where you know there is a need for coastal protection and use the land you have? It will then be possible to decide later whether or not to build.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184604	What Mrs Susanne Zimmer describes here can be done in two ways. You can do what a large majority of the Danish Parliament has decided, that is to say, to build the peninsula of Lynetteholm and there place the surplus land and allow it to finance the surplus land that is from the many projects that are there, thus saving the citizens of Copenhagen some costs. Alternatively, you can do it, making a physical dike in about the same area... it will still require you to do some excavations of spawn and clap it out in the Øresund, placing it out there etc., i.e. the same process, but where you make it narrower. But it will not be possible to use the surplus land in the same way. We may be able to use some of it, but it is quite insignificant amounts and it will not be able to finance the 800 million. kr., it's gonna cost to build this dike. So this is really about either doing things smartly and at the same time being able to dispose of the huge amount of surplus land that will then be usable later, or doing it in an expensive way, but where you do not get rid of some of the things that I think Mrs Susanne Zimmer really wants to get rid of, for example. to applaud surplus gythje in Øresund. So you have to keep that in mind in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184721	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184723	Yes, the Minister is right that I would like to avoid that clapping, and I would like to see priority given to nature before the economy. But now there is so much talk about the land, so now I'm starting from it: Is there a cover-up of how much land you can really expect? And has there been an overall plan for coastal protection, and should there not be an overall plan for coastal protection throughout the metropolitan area and see if you will actually need land elsewhere? Because right now, the focus is only on Lynetteholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184756	The short answers are yes and yes. Well, it's fully uncovered what's going to be of land, which I went through in my fairly comprehensive speech, but there's also a work going on to look exactly at what the other climate protection of the capital should look like, both to the south, but also to the dikes on Amager. And there is no prospect of a shortage of materials to be able to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184830	Thank you. No further brief comments to the Minister of Transport. So we start with the rapporteur's series. Here you go, sir. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130184854	Thank you, President. We are going to consider a resolution from the Enhedslisten to pause Lynetteholm and, before commenting on the specific proposal, I would like to start by stating that decisions on large-scale construction projects obviously require a thorough and enlightened basis for decision-making, and that is absolutely fundamental. Of course, we must have identified the possible effects of large-scale construction projects and follow the legislation in force at all times. This also applies to the construction project Lynetteholmen. Although a very broad majority agrees that we must storm-proof Copenhagen and allow for the possibility of storing the land in a place where it is beneficial, and possibly building housing sometime in the future, everything must be done according to the rules, and the impact on the environment must be thoroughly elucidated. There can be no doubt about that. In the Social Democratic Party we are quite confident about the very thorough process we have had in dealing with the construction law for Lynetteholm. There has been a very thorough legal process and almost 200 parliamentary issues, 4 consultations, 3 technical reviews and an expert hearing. The process has therefore been thorough and proper. Furthermore, in the context of the legal process of the Construction Act, the Attorney General has considered that the Construction Act would not be contrary to the VVM Directive or the PMV Directive, and the European Commission also states that the Construction Act for Lynetteholm complies with EU law. After the detailed examination, the bill was put to the vote in Parliament, where a large majority of Social Democracy, the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF and the Danish People's Party voted in favour. That Enhedslisten disagrees with the Lynetteholm project is, of course, up to the Enhedslisten, but I do not think that this should be the reason why we should change the resolution that a very broad majority of this Parliament is behind. Lynetteholmen is an important and good project for the capital, which will help to secure the future and climate-proof capital. It is not exactly a secret that the seawater is rising frighteningly quickly, and if we do nothing, we risk that large parts of Copenhagen will be underwater if the city is hit by a storm flood. Therefore, it is common sense to use surplus land to climate-ensure the capital and timely care to get started now. At the same time, the island has great potential in relation to the further development of Copenhagen and allows us to rethink the way we build and live. On the long track, Lynetteholm can help ensure that Copenhagen is a city where ordinary people can afford to live. Against this background, we therefore believe that there is no basis for pause for the Lynetteholm project. The Social Democrats do not therefore support the motion for a resolution. And I should like to welcome the radical rapporteur, who has been called to debate elsewhere nearby, and to say that the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185212	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185217	I assume that Mr. Thomas Jensen, as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, agrees that the Folketing and the public still need to see what to say, the overall environmental consequences of the overall project. I find it difficult to understand why the Social Democratic Party is not interested in having the debate on the whole project, i.e. the construction in due course, the infrastructure, the port tunnel, the metro, questions about the purification plant Lynetten and all the many elements involved. There have been no vvm-processes for anything other than the construction of the artificial island and perimeter. I am therefore surprised that after a local elections, where it has certainly played a role here, we have not thought about social democracy and thought that it might well be that we should have a slightly closer dialogue with the people of Copenhagen on the involvement of a number of experts who, of course, question many of the elements and the calculations that lie behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185326	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185328	Well, this project took its start back in 2015 under the mayor of Enhedslisten in the City of Copenhagen. Mayor Morten Kabell had to find a place where you could use the land that you dig up when you do construction projects in the metropolitan area. Since then, the project took shape, and an agreement in principle between the City of Copenhagen and the then bourgeois government was concluded in 2018. And in the spring, as I explained in my speech, we dealt exceptionally carefully with this bill which leads to the adoption of the construction of Lynetteholm. So I think we have had a very good debate and that we have had a thorough review of everything. In relation to why we have not made an overall assessment of everything, I would say that this specific project on Lynetteholm has only been adopted. It is up to future decision-makers to decide what Lynetteholm should be used for. Should it be a green bath island, it should be a place to build housing, it should be a place where there is also some business, or what should it be used for? When we decide, you can start doing the additional assessments of the project.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185444	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185447	I'm telling you, sir. Thomas Jensen really says that all the talk that has been about establishing 35,000 homes and 35,000 jobs on Lynetteholmen, to build a new metro line for Lynetteholmen and to build a so-called eastern harbour road, i.e. the port tunnel, and what do I know are just good visions? Will Mr. Thomas Jensen is seriously telling me that it is just such a good vision that it is not at all certain that it is going to happen and that it is not the main purpose of Lynetteholmen, that is above all climate protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185522	Lynetteholm is a project extending over 50, 60, perhaps up to 70 years before it is built. You can't start building homes out there before, so it's our grandchildren who ultimately, if elected, have to decide on this. If they are not elected and live in the metropolitan area, I am sure they will have ample opportunity to participate in the democratic debate on the path to be taken by Copenhagen and the path to be developed by Lynetteholm. So that way, there's a good democratic involvement in this project. There has been that when we look back, and there will also be forward-looking. I think we should stay too good to address this as if there is a democratic deficit in this project, when there has actually been an opportunity to influence this for a very, very long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185607	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185609	There will never be a democratic surplus in this project just because the Socialist rapporteur stands and says so from the platform. There are very, very many people who do not think they have the chance to get involved in this, among others. Mayor Marie Stærke, who in the newspaper Køge says she doesn't feel involved at all. How will the rapporteur convince the people that they have been consulted and they have been involved when not even the Socialist Vice-President thinks so?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185646	Well, as the Minister just explained, Køge's mayor has also been invited to participate in the follow-up group that focuses on the things to happen in that part of the Øresund, around Køge, so that way there is an involvement today. It is not something that has started; it is something that has to happen in the future, and there is an involvement of the mayors down there along the coast, and if you ask Køge's mayor today, I also think that Køge's mayor will say that she is happy with the involvement she has now been promised.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185714	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185716	Well, she also says in Dagbladet Køge: "I am extremely worried, and I think I lack knowledge and openness about what it has to do with consequences. I have nothing against Lynetteholmen. I just wish they could keep the sludge to themselves in Copenhagen. Does the rapporteur also think that she has been milder in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185741	Now the President asked Mr. Torsten Gejl to provide sources, and I would like to add that I would like to hear some dates for those quotes made by the rapporteur. For now, the mayors along the South Coast are involved in this follow-up group, and thus they also have the opportunity to gain insight into the academic and factual behind what is going to happen, just as the Swedes are being involved in it. So in this way it seems that there will be a good process in which all stakeholders and all geographically affected are well informed and involved in the process around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185817	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185819	Thank you. I'd like to keep going with mr. Torsten Gejl's question. It's fine for the mayors to get involved, but doesn't Mr. Thomas Jensen, that this could mean changing the slapping in that area, because that is what they are worried about, isn't it? Then I would like to hear what will happen by postponing this project, for example. a year and have an overall environmental impact assessment done? This would be given more time if it were postponed for one year, which would mean that the overall plan referred to by the ministers on a global coastal protection plan could show that we might need the land somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130185905	What would happen if we postponed this for a year? Then it will mean that Copenhagen from the north will be coast- and climate-proof a year later. I just want to remind you that in December 2013, when Bodil ravaged, the Storebælt Bridge, the Øresund Bridge, Copenhagen Airport, and the Copenhagen Metro were 2 centimeters of water level from being flooded. If such a storm flood occurs while we sit here talking in the Folketing, it will have disastrous consequences for our capital city. And with the view we now have, and if we follow what a broad majority in the Danish Parliament has adopted, we will be able to have this northern climate protection in 2025. I think that is very positive and good for the Copenhageners, and I hope that the Copenhageners will pay us a debt if there is an incident after 2025, that is to say that we have been out in good time to storm-proof Copenhagen and the capital.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190011	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190013	After all, I cannot disagree at all with the need for coastal protection, but what should be the nature of this coastal protection? That's what I'm thinking. What does this mean? We can then say that coastal protection is going to work to some extent, but there is also a lot of uncertainty as to how much it works, and there are some who also say that it works the opposite. But how can you say this is more important than anything else? What about the portrait throughout the Baltic Sea? What about the guinea pigs? We keep giving priority to something else. We could have time to do a little better if we put this off.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190055	Well, we've had a thorough assessment of this. After all, we have looked at the various consequences here, and we also know that one of the major consequences that will be if there is a storm flood is that large parts of Copenhagen will be flooded. Our National Bank is being restored. There will be fatal consequences for the National Bank if there is a storm flood tomorrow. In fact, the building will be able to start to rise and start to have a different construction. Well, we have to make sure that things like that don't happen, and that's why we're actually under time pressure to make a storm flood protection of our capital. If that were to happen and take action before we are done with this, then unfortunately we will see the consequences, and it will cost our society incredible amounts of money, and it could also, in the extreme, lead to human losses that are unbearable. So I am glad that there is a broad majority in the City of Copenhagen and a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament who has ensured that this project is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190152	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190207	Thank you for that, President. In the Left we like the vision of 35,000 more homes here in Copenhagen. We like the vision that there will be climate protection of our capital in our time. And we can also agree with the plan to find a sensible place to deposit the huge amounts of land around a capital, which every day must be properly deposited. The three things in combination are a very good solution and we therefore welcome the fact that on 4 June this year a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament passed the law on the construction of Lynetteholm, and we also welcome the fact that, in addition to this, a strategic environmental assessment is being carried out. That is why it is very unclear to us what the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution should actually benefit the environment if you choose to pause it here. It's very unclear. You have every right to be against a project. This is often the case here in the Folketing. It's all nature in our people's rule. But what puzzles me, and perhaps disappoints me a little, is that the term undemocratic is used over and over again about this undemocratic process. Well, we're talking about a project that's been through a very, very thorough process of vvm study according to all the rules of art. There have been hearings in which all groups have had the opportunity to express their views, and fortunately they have taken advantage of that too. That's good. It has been adopted here in the Danish Parliament... an elected body set up in the world to adopt civil engineering laws in our democracy. There has even been a very thorough legal procedure in which a number of questions have been put to the Minister, including many from the Left, because we wanted to dig deep into this bill because it is a big deal. There was a very, very thorough democratic treatment in this Chamber. And forward-looking, a political follow-up group has been set up that follows this project very closely. That is why I find it very difficult to understand the use of the word undemocratic. That is a rather strong word, which I think we should be careful not to throw around with one another. I note that the climate movement has summoned the Minister of Transport on the construction law on Lynetteholmen, and it is now not something that makes us sleepless in the Left. For us, there is nothing new about the construction law. We also have opinions on this from the Chamber Attorney, and the European Commission has also agreed with this. Therefore, we await the court's handling of this matter with serenity. I also think that in this debate we should be careful that we stick to the facts. In other words, when you blow things up like that, and you can do that in the heat of the fight, you just have to be careful not to cause the citizens an unnecessary concern. It's very dangerous. I have noted that the Enhedslisten, with this motion for a resolution, has pointed out a number of things, and Sweden is cited as an example of concern about this. Well, as far as Sweden is concerned, we have just chosen a precautionary principle about the hydraulic conditions in the Øresund, i.e. the flow of water. We have chosen a cautious principle of flapping. And there will be a third-party review of those conditions. So I do not understand why something like this should be brought forward, that is, that it should be a huge problem in relation to Sweden. The economy has been questioned. This is something we have really drilled in and asked questions about over and over again in our legal proceedings. You also question the protection of the coast of the capital, and you raise the question: is this at all something that works, because it has virtually no effect. It is so sad to hear such arguments. I have deep respect for the fact that one is opposed to a proposal that is deeply respectful, that is at the heart of a democracy. But the fact that you come up with something like this that is on the verge of facts, I don't think it's so good, and it helps to whirl up a lot of dust. In conclusion, I do not see that the workers who are now associated with the project, with whom contacts are being drawn, will just benefit from it if you pause it here. There is thus no beneficial effect of it. And so it is no surprise that the Left cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190651	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's from sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190657	The motion for a resolution here, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, in fact, is based on the fact that we believe that a whole range of elements have been called into question. The rapporteur himself has mentioned some of them. There is a subpoena from the Climate Movement, which is the whole process with Sweden, the whole ESPO process there, and lately we have seen that the green-bellied toad appears. These are things that have not been studied, and you can laugh a lot about that, but they are things that have not been studied and which are therefore not illuminated in the vvm process that has been done. That is just like the reason for raising this motion for a resolution, and I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the Left really feels confident that all aspects of this project have been elucidated. The rapporteur starts by saying: we support the vision of 35,000 homes. But we have just heard the Socialist rapporteur say that it is not certain that this will happen and that the people of the future will have to take a position on it. Nevertheless, this is all the more necessary for the construction of Lynetteholmen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190808	The answer is yes, we are safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190811	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190813	Yeah, I thought you might be, obviously. Has there been no reflection at all, again in relation to the whole vision? It was quite clear from the agreement in principle that the then prime minister, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, obviously took the City of Copenhagen and the then mayor, Frank Jensen, with his pants down, and it was of course part of the policy of the Left to get on the offensive in the big cities, not least in the capital, because there had probably been a lot of Copenhagenerbashing along the way. Is it not reason to think that this is what we are going for and that things are not self-financing, as was claimed at the time? They said it wasn't going to cost taxpayers a penny.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190856	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190858	I mean, those speculations about people's motives for one thing and the other, we can't use that much. What we are dealing with in the Left is the vision of this, whether it is something that the people benefit from and whether it is something that the capital of Denmark will benefit from. There is our clear answer, yes, and that is why we support the project. And we are quite confident that all the stones that need to be turned around in this, we have turned around in the law-making process, and if there is more, we will turn over that too. That is why we have a political follow-up group to follow up on this, and we are very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190926	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130190930	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur speaks of democratic deficits, and the rapporteur says that he cannot understand at all that anyone can use the concept of democratic deficit in this process. It is true that there has been a lot of talk among a lot of experts; there has been a lot of talk among a lot of politicians, but this is also about Copenhagen. It is also about the citizens. Does the rapporteur not understand at all that there are some who feel that there is a democratic deficit when citizens are so little consulted about a project running for the next 70 years in the country's capital?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191004	The concept I heard was that it was an undemocratic process. There is a certain discrepancy in relation to the concept of democratic deficit. I understand that some people in Copenhagen are skeptical about this project. I fully understand that, and it is quite legitimate to be against it. But you have had the opportunity to speak in this process. So this Parliament is in the world to make decisions, and we've done this on an enlightened basis. If it were the case that someone who was against a project could have it paused, etc., every time we had to deal with a major project, we would not have this country brought forward. What is central is that this Parliament is democratically elected and we are accountable to the electorate no later than a year and a half from now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191046	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191047	After all, the rapporteur is the transport rapporteur. What does the rapporteur have to say to the Copenhageners about the transport of 80 million? to land through busy streets in Copenhagen? What does the rapporteur have to say to the children who will grow up with trucks filled with land as a backdrop throughout their childhood?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191110	I welcome the fact that, hopefully, the lorries in question will soon be green. This is something the Left is working towards. We're pushing the government to get the green heavy transport going. But it's a shame, to say it in Jutland, that there's going to be that extra traffic, but that's the way it is. When you have to land some land, it has to go to the place where it is to be deposited, and then you have to ensure that you comply with the rules, so that those cars do not pollute, that they do not make more noise than is necessary and that you comply with the rules on traffic. That's what I have to say to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191141	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. In accordance with Paragraph 28 of the Rules of Procedure, the Minister of Transport then has. The President-in-Office of the Council has asked for the floor from the Chair and the Minister is entitled to do so in the course of the debate. So welcome to the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191157	Thank you. This is because Enhedslisten's rapporteur put a question to the rapporteur of the Left, who was about the green-bellied toad. Perhaps I had had the expectation that it would have been decided to ask questions containing a new element while I was on the platform as a minister. This was not chosen, and I took the view that the work that had been done and the answers that had been given in this area were complete, but since it was raised in the speech by the rapporteur of the Left, and since the rapporteur of the Left is the rapporteur and thus does not necessarily have access to the full background work, I think I should make myself available here and answer that question. It is important to emphasise that environmental assessments relate precisely to the green-bellied toad. The environmental assessments have described that no findings have been made of the green-broked toad on the area where the receiving plant is to be located. In addition, access to the reception system must mainly take place on existing roads and via a new access road on the Test stone, where heavy traffic already takes place. Against this background, the consultant advising City & Port has assessed that the populations or habitats of the toad are not negatively affected by the project. In addition, a condition has been included in the implementation statement that in connection with the necessary recovery facility, the fence will be arranged so that amphibians cannot pass into the area. It is in place to ensure that if the green-bellied toad or other species of amphibians should re-immigrate to Refshale Island, then it will ensure that they cannot enter the project areas. But it is also clear that this is, of course, an issue that we will always and continuously follow, also in the political follow-up group, and I know that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has pointed out that they have some views about this. I myself had a meeting with the Danish Nature Conservation Association on Monday last week, and they could not at that meeting clearly explain what their concerns were. I wondered a little about this at the meeting, but it is clear that if they were to bring forward something that has an element that we need to take stock of, then of course it is also something that we take the necessary cutlery off if necessary and which we will adapt and adjust on the basis of. The aim is, of course, to ensure that the necessary considerations are taken into account, even if there may have been things that have changed since the studies and the implementation statement, because sometimes the conditions in nature change. It is exactly the same as we are doing the ongoing monitoring of the slap that is taking place in Øresund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191503	Thank you, Minister. This has given rise to a few brief comments to the Minister. It's first for Mr. Knox. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191511	Well, I was just using the green-bellied toad as an example of some of the things that we think are not properly lit or what to say? And about that green-speckled toad, I understand that you think you've examined it, but there are others who dispute it, and they say it's found the places and is affected by the plant of Lynetteholmen and perhaps also by the transport of land to and from, but it will certainly be by the plant of Lynetteholmen. That is what I am saying: it is just an example of the fact that if we do not properly clarify things, we will not have a proper debate. The green-bellied toad is on the red list, so it will have serious consequences if it really stays there and you destroy its habitat if you build Lynetteholmen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191619	But that is precisely why we have worked so hard on the question that you will be able to get acquainted with if you read through the many answers that were given during the legislative process in the spring. This is also one of the issues that we have dealt with in some of the technical reviews, where, among other things, we are dealing with. have had some of the biologists inside who have gone out in the field and made counts etc. And yes, the green-bellied toad is one of the species that has just been observed, as has been explained in more detail. If it is the case that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has some concrete observations, where something may have changed in relation to, when the environmental assessment was made, then one has to present it in concrete terms. As has been explained to me, this has not been done. So we have not been able to clarify what the problem should be, but we have to do so and we have to take that discussion in the political follow-up group. At any rate, this is what I have indicated to the parties who are taking part in the political follow-up group that we are going to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191725	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191726	I agree with that. It has to come up with a test, because if anyone really disputes the fact that it is the case, as the studies show, and that they can show that the green-bellied toad actually exists where you want to establish Lynetteholmen and that you thereby destroy its habitat, then we have a serious problem. I think the Minister will agree with me on that. And then, as I say, you have to let it come to a test, and then you have to get it checked out. The problem here is that we are engaged in an irreversible process which cannot be revoked or driven back if it turns out that there are some huge problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191804	But again I have to maintain that this species has been included in the assessments. It has been examined where its potential habitats may be. It has been explained, and the implementation report has taken steps to ensure that they do not migrate into other areas where it could pose challenges. But nature is now also so arranged that it is not permanent and that things can change over years. If it is the case that the Danish Nature Conservation Association is able to demonstrate in concrete terms where this green-bellied toad should be and then still stands so that one can give expression to one's concern that it is not only a theoretical concern, but that one can put into practice that it is a real concern. We will also look at what concrete migratory initiatives we can then take to ensure that we do not affect the specific species.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191858	The next brief remark is to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191901	Thank you. The minister says a toad fence is being set up so it can't get into the area. However, it is true in nature that some animals have habitats that are suitable for them to be in. And it is redlisted and in decline, so if you put up fences, that means that the minister must have the impression that it is probably also part of the area affected by Lynetteholm, and thus you are reducing its living conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130191930	Unlike Mr. Henning Hyllested, who is apologized for being on sick leave during the legal proceedings we had in the Danish Parliament in the spring when the Lynetteholm plant law was adopted, Mrs Susanne Zimmer had the opportunity to take part in all the technical reviews, among others. This issue of species was also examined not only by me or by representatives of the City & Port, but by among others. the biologists who have worked in concrete terms with it, some of the advisers who have worked in concrete terms with it. That is why Mrs Susanne Zimmer should also know that this species has indeed been elucidated. In other words, if you have followed the least in this area, as I suppose you have done, because I also assume that Mrs Susanne Zimmer is interested in these species, then you will also know that it is very well explained.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192024	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192026	Well, that's exactly the way it is now, sir. Henning Hyllested says new information has come out about this. I have taken part in those consultations and I would also like to say that there have been a great many issues raised in those consultations with regard to both the marine environment and the environment. So I think it's a little wrong to make it look like everyone just thought this was a good idea, because it wasn't like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192049	I am well aware that Mrs Susanne Zimmer is against Lynetteholm, regardless of what studies are being carried out. It is quite right to have the view that you do not want it, but it is wrong to claim that the species of green-bellied toad has not been examined and has not been examined very thoroughly. So I still have to explain what the news from the Danish Nature Conservation Association was supposed to be in this case. I therefore expect, of course, that if you say that you see a problem, you will also be practical in relation to it, so that we are actually able to take any initiatives if it turns out that there is something. But it is certainly not the case that this species has not been thoroughly evaluated, for it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192134	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192138	Thank you. I quote from the Danish Nature Conservation Association's website • this has been posted on 24 November, and I understand how the Minister had met with the Danish Nature Conservation Association last Monday, so this has been posted afterwards: • The endangered and protected padd green-bellied toad lives and breeds right in the area where the City of Copenhagen and a majority of the Danish Parliament will build an artificial peninsula with room for 35,000 inhabitants. This shows a new note made by the consultant Amphi Consult for the Danish Nature Conservation Association's department in Copenhagen. ▪ What does the minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192213	As I understand that note, it does not bring anything new in terms of content into play, and that is why we are calling for more concrete action than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192225	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192227	Well we are here, in relation to the fact that it says that the endangered and protected padd green-bellied toad breeds right in the area where the City of Copenhagen and a majority in the Folketing will build an artificial peninsula. These are specific information. That's new information. They are written directly by the Danish Nature Conservation Association. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192248	Well, I would like to repeat myself: in relation to precisely the areas affected by the works, the green-bellied toad and its habitats are clearly assessed in the environmental study that has been carried out. It has been carried out very thoroughly, and that is why, as I said, it is not new what is being brought into play. If it is the case that you have some concrete observations that bring new knowledge into play, then you have to show up with it. However, the preliminary assessment made by the relevant note does not reveal any new knowledge. This does not mean that there can be no new knowledge, but then you have to be more specific in your concerns from the Danish Nature Conservation Association. I am basically like this: When the Danish Nature Conservation Association shows up for a meeting with me, it was about something else and then mentions that you are worried about a green-brooked toad, then of course I also have an expectation that you can then be quite specific and point to where it is, so that we can take the measures that are needed to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192349	Now the President is quite specific and gives the floor to the next questioner, and that is Mrs Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192357	Maybe I can be a little helpful in this case. For it is SF who has approached the Minister of Transport and asked for a meeting of the accompanying group, in which we are sitting, because we are in Lynetteholm, about the green-bellied toad. I have read the note that Amphi Consult, which DN has hired to examine the green-bellied toad, has made. What it says is that they do not see that the green-bellied toad is in some areas which, with the construction work we are doing right now, affect it. You can see that it is in some areas that are at risk of being affected in the future if we adopt some of the perhaps future parts of the project. But they do not think that it is being affected by the work that is going on right now. They would actually like to come to a meeting and talk to us, which I hope the Minister of Transport will accept. Can he confirm that he wants to? In fact, my impression is that the Minister would very much like to address the problem if there is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192500	Both are absolutely correct. If there is anything concrete, we would like to take that into account, take mitigating actions. Some of what SF also pointed out during the legislative process of the construction law for Lynetteholm were some of the challenges that would be around eelgrass. And it ended up with us ensuring that more eelgrass was added in the implementation report. So, yes, such a meeting will be held. I can't remember if it's already dated, but it will be. It is clear that, regardless of whether there is something that could potentially affect it now or in the longer term, it must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192537	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192539	We are very happy about that in the SF. The Minister must also tell me whether it is correctly understood that the green-bellied toad is very common when we talk about infrastructure projects and other things. It is a pad with which the contractors have great difficulty. But to do something about the fact that it is there is actually quite easy, as I understand it. The minister will have to confirm it if he agrees. As far as I'm concerned, you can, for example. We have already done so to a certain extent. There's something more you can do. You can also move it if necessary, and you can find other places, for example. Putting machines on if it comes to it. Is the Minister prepared to look at further initiatives if necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192620	If necessary, I am entirely prepared to do so. And I would just like to point out that, fortunately, it is a toad that is often encountered, even in the vicinity of infrastructure. It's a great animal. We must ensure that the Transport Committee is given an opportunity to get acquainted with the green-bellied toad, because it is in several places along our large infrastructure facilities and there is a good opportunity to observe them. We're gonna have to take a ride in the field one day and wear the rubber boots.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192654	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. Thus we continue the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130192711	It is always difficult to come for a green-bellied toad, but I fully agree that the toads should be well. On the part of the Danish People's Party, the government and the Minister should not be criticised, negative at least, in relation to the fact that something undemocratic has taken place. We acknowledge that the Minister did quite a lot to gather the threads and also adequately answer questions and so on. in connection with the legislative process of L 220 back in May and forward in June. The Minister actually cared so much about the bill that he ended up breaking the Rules of Procedure here in the Danish Parliament without the President intervening in the fact that at second reading of the L 220 he spent no less than 25 minutes and 30 seconds speaking, even if the rules only have 10 minutes as a minister. No one noticed it, but I sat there and took time, and I thought it was quite interesting. We should not criticize that, but I just think it should be mentioned that the speaking time was at least spent so much. However, the Danish People's Party fully agrees that this project may well be a very good project, but I have to say that we have a concern. We also had that concern during both the first and second readings, and when we voted on it at the end of June, and it is about the process of whether we are on safe ground in relation to all the concerns that are being outlined. I also agree that a number of concerns have arisen since we adopted the construction law to L 220 concerning the establishment of Lynetteholmen. One of the attenuating circumstances, why the Danish People's Party chose to join, was that we among other things. At the SF's request, it was given the opportunity to do this strategic environmental assessment, which will have to look across projects around the overall environmental impacts across the overall development of the East Harbour, including not least Lynetteholmen, and it contains everything about urban development with the many homes and not least the many jobs that need to be in the area. These things are, in fact, fairly well done, and so we also think that it is fair that we might be able to speak in favour and assess objectively whether there is really no evidence that we should wait for the strategic environmental assessment to be put in place before we proceed with the project. It is also something that I have been open about in the political debate that has been here outside the Folketing since. I have, of course, also been somewhat provoked by the fact that, in connection with the establishment of the Construction Act, we were able to see that there were things that the decision-makers in the Folketing were not allowed to have, but it was possible to do so if you were sitting in the Civil Representation. Of course, I think that was a rather precarious situation too, but I also recognise that there was some legislation, which, among other things, has been the case. made that part possible and did not make it possible. I am not so much concerned with the green-bellied toad in relation to my rapporteur's speech here, but one of the things that has been going on is the criticism that has been made here in October about the concern of some prominent researchers in relation to the very risk of storms and whether it is becoming smaller or greater in the establishment of a large Lynetteholm. At any rate, I note that the two researchers interviewed by B.T. Of course, as rapporteur, I am also concerned about such things, and that is also why I say that it might make good sense for us to pause this. Then there has also been a great discussion, which several people have mentioned, not so much directed at the politicians of the City of Copenhagen, the mayor etc., but how the local municipalities, including Køge Bay, handle sludge and all that lies in it, i.e. how they will be able to handle it safely, flapping and securing animals and all the things that come with it. What we have then arrived at in the Danish People's Party is that we will ask a number of questions to the Minister for Transport. Some of them are backwards, while others are new questions compared to Lynetteholmen. So we are not actually going to say 'yes' to the motion for a resolution as such, but we are not going to reject it either, and in fact we think that there are many things in favour of taking these concerns rather more vigilantly than what a majority in the Folketing might be prepared to do today. Those were supposed to be the words. Now it actually says 00:00, so it's actually pretty perfect.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130193224	I can confirm that. And then, for the sake of good order, I can also say to the rapporteur and to the rapporteurs in general that, at another reading, a minister has actually 30 minutes' speaking time. So, of course, the chairman of the Folketing has ensured that the speaking time is respected. Hans Kristian Skibby Then he has the right to speak). No, there aren't five minutes in the bank, there isn't. On the other hand, there is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. No, there wasn't. There wasn't. There were no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then the rapporteur has moved around a little, and it is good colleagues who have made it possible to do so, and I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr Liberal Alliance. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130193308	Thank you for that to the SF rapporteur and to the Conservative rapporteur. In this debate about Lynetteholmen, all sorts of things are being tried as an opponent of Lynetteholmen in order to express their views one more time, including here from the country's leading platform in the Folketing, and this time it has been found that there is something wrong with democracy in the process and that there is something that needs to be elucidated, etc., and therefore the decision to build the plant Lynetteholm must be postponed. But it is all just something you have invented for the occasion, because you want to say again why you are opposed to Lynetteholmen, and that is why we also hear the same old traversies that we have heard so many times before and which we have also rejected so many times before. Sir. For months Torsten Gejl has been a traveller in the view that driving around the world in Copenhagen is a product of Lynetteholmen, although Mr. Torsten Gejl has been told countless times that the earth comes of itself, it does not come because of Lynetteholmen, it comes because of construction in Copenhagen, which creates surplus land and which has to go away. Lynetteholmen is then the solution to how to dispose of the land locally. So instead of driving it out into the country on longer distances and being deposited out, perhaps some places where it should just lie and not be of benefit after having had a long transport road, you are facing your earth challenge locally in Copenhagen. This is something you usually appreciate when you talk about green conversion and sustainability, i.e. local problems are solved locally. Instead of transporting garbage around the globe, you solve it locally, and in this case you solve it with the ground locally. But the alternative chooses to ignore it, because the profiling, the voting to claim something, is more important to Mr. Torsten Gejl than to stick to the truth about what is going on, namely that you have a local production of surplus land that you handle locally. Trucks don't come because of Lynetteholmen, they come because there are constructions in Copenhagen. And such a thing is really a shame, that is, it is really a shame when you could be an idealistic human being who cares about real things and real problems and keeps to the truth when you promote your ideals, but then instead, in fact, just want to make propaganda and deceive people, as Mr. Torsten Gejl does it over and over again. And we answer again and again: No, it is not land that comes because of Lynetteholmen, it is land that comes because we have construction work in Copenhagen. And the next time there is a debate, Mr. Torsten Gejl it one more time, as if he hasn't heard it at all, because he doesn't care what's true and what's false in this case. But that's one of them. the reason why Lynetteholmen is to be built, namely that the surplus land in Copenhagen must be laid somewhere. Then it has been decided that it should be added to Refshale Island, because it can be used there, it can be used to storm-proof Copenhagen. If you make an island there, it has to be only 4.5 m tall to storm-proof Copenhagen from the north, if you then also pat in the piece of harbour running that remains, then it has to be only 4.5 m tall, instead of building a dike that has to be 6 m tall. The Diget costs 800 million. kr., while the plant of Lynetteholmen is approximately free, because it costs to make the periphery, does not exceed what you earn from receiving land. It is the case that you make money from receiving surplus land in this country. So instead of spending 800 million. kr. On a 6 m high dyke, you don't need to spend any of the money on building a 4.5 m high peninsula, which is Lynetteholmen. On top of that, you get to build land afterwards. So there is now a peninsula once it has been built, and an estimated 20,000 homes can be built for 35,000 residents, and there can be 35,000 jobs. Having more room for people to live in Copenhagen is also in demand these days, and prices are rising wildly in Copenhagen, because there are so many more people who want to live in Copenhagen than there are housing for them, and that is why all responsible politicians are talking about how to prevent housing prices from rising in Copenhagen, how to build enough housing that people are looking for, so that prices do not explode, so that it does not go as in Oslo and Stockholm, where prices have exploded, because they have not allowed enough new construction. There's Lynetteholmen part of the answer, because this could be 20,000 homes for 35,000 people. In this way, there are answers to all the objections that come up all the time and that there should be a democratic deficit is also wrong, because it has been decided here in the Folketing, and there is consultation on it and so on. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130193822	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130193827	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen claims that the B proposal and our speech and something like that have been invented for the occasion. It could also be a serious concern, a genuine concern about the construction of Lynetteholmen and the residential, residential, infrastructure, metro, port tunnel, etc. projects that are part of it. It could be that it was a genuine concern that they were not actually properly elucidated. So far we have only seen a vvm process for Lynetteholm itself, i.e. for the construction of the peninsula. However, we do not have an assessment of the overall project, including the economy of the project. It's sold like it doesn't cost us a penny, yeah, okay, how do you know? I have seen a great deal, including economists, contesting the fact that it is right, therefore, that it cannot be self-financing. We have seen the articles in B.T., which I know the Minister disavows and thinks have nothing on him. Nevertheless, doubts are raised as to whether the important prerequisite for the agreement in 2018 will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130193946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130193948	But it is obviously as good as all possible projects that Enhedslisten is in favour of. Compared to when Enhedslisten is in favour of the construction of a new railway or of new kindergartens, it is here illuminated at the same level. If it were so that when Enhedslisten, together with the parties behind the Togfonden DK, had decided that we should build a new railway, that we saw from the Liberal Alliance, if it was a project that we were not in favour of, here in Parliament said that we would simply have to postpone that decision, because it is not illuminated well enough in relation to the decision on a new railway, which Enhedslisten has rushed through the Danish Parliament, so it is stated at the same level that the Enhedslisten would reject it and say: No, it is well illustrated; it is then illuminated just as we usually illuminate it; it is just because you are opposed to the project that you claim it is not illuminated properly. And in the same way I say now to Enhedslisten: It is illuminated fine, just as we usually illuminate it; it is just because Enhedslisten is opposed to the project that Enhedslisten tries to throw gravel into the machinery.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194049	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194051	However, I would venture to claim that this cannot be compared. Compared to the construction of a new rail line on West Funen, I would venture to say that the consequences of this, including the impact on the environment and climate, are far more obvious than can be seen in relation to this giant project, which includes so many elements, which are by no means elucidated. There are no vvm processes on anything other than the Lynetteholmen itself, i.e. the peninsula. Everything else has not been elucidated. It gets huge Ole Birk Olesen!
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194134	But there has been a vvm study of the installation of Lynetteholm. The fact that buildings may be coming upstairs at some point in time does not mean that something is happening with the sea flow, which is different than if, for example, there is a problem with the sea flow. aren't buildings on. I mean, that thing with the ocean currents, it's been elucidated through the vvm survey. Similarly, a vvm study has been made of the fact that we should have the track from Copenhagen to Ringsted, and that we should have the track from Odense across West Funen, which Enhedslisten is in favour of. After all, it is illuminated at the same level via vvm, which is a thorough process that works every time we do construction projects of this kind.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194215	The next brief remark is to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194216	Thank you. Does the rapporteur dare to guarantee that in the next 70 years, Lynetteholmen will not cost the citizens of Copenhagen money?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194231	Yes, I can guarantee with a hundred percent certainty that Lynetteholm with settlement will not cost Copenhagen money. Well, the plant itself of Lynetteholm will so roughly run around, conservatively set. If you then sell out of the land afterwards for construction, you will earn a lot of money, but you will of course also have to commit yourself to making infrastructure for it, and the question of how much you get into the revenue from the sale of land and how much the infrastructure will cost is more uncertain and not illuminated properly yet. It will be at some point if you start that process. But for the actual installation of the peninsula Lynetteholm it is very clear that even with a cautious estimate it will not be something that costs Copenhagen anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194322	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194324	After all, the rapporteur does not hide the fact that he sees the project in its entirety, with its construction. So, what I am asking is, of course, whether the rapporteur can guarantee that it will not cost the citizens of Copenhagen money to get this whole project going, with construction and with infrastructure. How dare the rapporteur say that, because what are house prices in 50-70 years' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194350	But I do not dare to say that either, because we have not clarified that properly yet. What has been properly illuminated is the installation of the peninsula of Lynetteholm. The project of how much one gets in by selling land and how much it costs to make metro and way out there is not yet sufficiently illuminated, and that is not what we are deciding at the moment. We decide on the construction of a peninsula, which could in principle be without settlement and act as a climate protection of Copenhagen and as a land depot, and where you could have a lot of nature if that was what you wanted in due course. But I now have a wish that there should be housing there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194427	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194430	Thank you, and thank you for a terrific speech. It was a lot about land, and it's exciting because it's about some of the things we just couldn't get answers to from City & Port. We have asked a lot about where that land comes from, and as far as I remember, not even 10% have been explained. of the land. After all, the rapporteur says a lot about the fact that it is much smarter that this land comes to Lynetteholmen precisely from all other places because of transport distances and things like that. Then it is, of course, that the rapporteur must know something that we others do not know and that no one else has been able to answer. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: where is that 80 million? To earth comes from?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194511	It is, after all, an indication of how much surplus land is being generated in the metropolitan area in the coming years. What has been seen in previous years, including decades, is that as much land is being produced as one has to find a place to put. The North Harbour has also grown. While we have been sitting here in the Folketing, and while we have slept on our pillows, it has also grown in a similar process, where you make new land where there was no land before, without anyone from the Alternative or from the Enhedslisten who has skipped up about it. It is quite unproblematic, and there you have experience of how much land you can receive and how much land is being produced in Copenhagen, and from that you make some predictions about how much land is coming to Lynetteholmen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194604	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194606	These are very uncertain predictions, and it has actually been said that land must be transported from the outside, that is to say that does not come from the capital at all. But it has not been said where that land comes from, and the rapporteur must be able to answer that. If the rapporteur so clearly accuses the alternative of wanting to make a solution that is not profitable in relation to land transport, then the rapporteur must be able to answer the question where the land comes from, instead of talking about his pillow.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194633	Well, what is the alternative imagining? The alternative imagines that Copenhagen's growth will just as easily stall, that all the trends we see around the world are attracting more and more companies and more residents and will stop now, and that Copenhagen will therefore stop producing land from construction? It's all on the moon with the suspicion that the alternative and Mr. Torsten Gejl is doing to make it fit into their populist project with gathering voices from people who don't know better that they are claiming that there will be no land. Of course there's land coming. Copenhagen is a growth city. It is Denmark's largest growth city.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194712	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and I can give the floor to the SF rapporteur, Mrs Valentina Berthelsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130194723	Thank you so much. Thank you to Enhedslisten, if nothing else, for giving rise to this extremely important debate. I appreciate that, actually. We have sympathy for many of the initiatives that Enhedslisten lists in their resolution, but the difference between SF and Enhedslisten is that SF is for Lynetteholm, where Enhedslisten is against. We have many of the same concerns in terms of impact on nature, environment and climate, but SF basically thinks that Lynetteholm is a good idea. It just needs to be done properly. One of the things Enhedslisten lists is the question of a smv. After all, a SMEs is a strategic environmental assessment, which many researchers have given as their suggestion on how to ensure that the project could better comply with EU law, and that, of course, was the result of the discussion that we had in connection with the adoption of the Construction Act. We found that input in the SF incredibly interesting, and we were, as many of the researchers were, concerned about whether this was contrary to the VVM directive, and therefore SF fought the SMEs currently in preparation through the negotiations on Lynetteholm. It is quite clear that we would have preferred it to have been drawn up before the construction law for the island was adopted, but SF was, of course, the only thing to remember about fighting through this smv, because Enhedslisten, for example. was not part of the negotiating room, and that meant that we had to thank ourselves for the fact that it applies in the future. But it is an admission and it is an important concession. The Enhedslisten also mentions the Swedish environmental authorities and how they relate to the project. It is also something that the SF has taken up because of the fact that we are in the follow-up group behind Lynetteholm. One of the first things I did when my summer vacation started was to disturb the Transport Minister with the Swedish response to this project. And that's my understanding, thank God, because we have been regularly involved after I approached the Minister of Transport that Sweden is not concerned if the calculations are valid, and that is what is currently being verified by a third party, and that is very good. It's a good thing we're raising these concerns. After all, it is SF's basic attitude to Lynetteholm that all the concerns that come up from nature organisations and from citizens are something that we should carry into the follow-up group, take seriously and do something about, but not necessarily an opportunity to stop the project or be against it, because we basically believe that it is a good idea to make sure that it is a good idea to create space for more cheap housing or recreational areas. At least that's our vision of what could be on Lynetteholm. What I have noted is that right now there is a trial going on at the initiative of the climate movement, and I actually thought that was very good. The reason for this is, of course, that there has been so much doubt as to whether the project complies with EU law, and we in the SF have really tested it, on the one hand, by fighting through it, as we have just talked about, and, on the other hand, by our Member of the European Parliament, Margrethe Auken, who has lifted the case of whether Lynetteholm was in breach of EU law, into the European Citizens' Appeals Board, where the Commission refused to respond to it. Now they've said they can't see the problem. The lawyer has said that they have not been able to see a problem, and that is why I believe that the best way to assess whether there is a problem is in a court of law. But that also means that we have to let that court work, and since the climate movement has asked for the action to have suspensory effect, it will be the court that decides whether this project should be postponed. SF's role in this is to be the green watchdog, which ensures that the smv that we have fought through is actually used for what it has to do, which ensures that the green toad is something that the transport minister relates to, and we will continue to do so. But we cannot do so if we vote in favour of the Enhedslisten resolution, because it would be a breach of agreement, and then we go out of the circle of agreements, and it is neither Lynetteholmen nor the citizens that it affects, nor the Enhedslisten, because we share many concerns, particularly well served by them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195238	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is only from Mr Seligman's point of view. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195243	Thank you. Of course, it has also occurred to me that the SF prides itself on having been pressured not only, but still this vvm survey through. I think that is good and commendable, but I will ask the SF's rapporteur: what will be done with it when it comes? Because the thing is, you have an irreversible process going on here. So, once that island lies there, it lies there, and then it cannot be rolled back, regardless of whether it turns out that it has enormous environmental and climate consequences. Then you might be able to fix some things here and there. It's okay. Maybe we can make sure of what I know. But the problem is that the process cannot be rolled back if it is not stopped like that and we get that light on some of the unsafe elements, including the green-bellied toad, but also many other elements that I have also mentioned in the questions I have asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195357	That is also why the SF fought for the SMEs to apply before the construction law for the island was passed, and that is also why I was so annoyed that Mr. Henning Hyllested or, for that matter, his alternate at that time, who is also very talented, was not sitting next to me in the negotiating room. Because it might have been possible to make sure that we had had a smv that applied from the beginning. But now it's forward-looking, and it's important, after all, because what it's going to shed light on are the cumulative environmental and nature impacts of this project. That is still important, we still need to do something about it, and in accordance with that, Mr President. Henning Hyllested himself expressed concern about, one might ask: what happens when the Minister of Transport says that he does not believe that there is a duty to make a smv? If the SF goes, then who's gonna make sure that smv is actually used for what it's supposed to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195453	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195454	I just want to know what it's exactly you want to use that smash for. Now you are told here it is one of the problems we have raised that the condition of storm-flooding Copenhagen may not last, or that it will really only become viable in 30 years' time when Lynetteholmen is built and you can get sluice gates in, for example. in the King's Dive. Until then, there is a threat that Copenhagen is not safe from floods and that a huge problem can also be faced north of Copenhagen, because Lynetteholmen is helping to vote up the water, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195550	Of course, we take these comments very seriously, and that is why I am glad that I am in the follow-up group. That's for us to clarify these things. Now we have called a meeting on the green-speckled toad, and if there is a need for us to also have a further discussion on the flow of water, then we are happy to do so. However, a Dutch company is currently verifying the calculations that were made, because that is what the Swedes have asked for. They have said that they just want to know if the calculations are valid, and if they are, they are not worried, and then we can take the debate afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195625	The next brief remark is to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195627	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. What would happen by paused this project so that you can get more research done, for example. in relation to the green-bellied toad, in relation to the guinea pigs and in relation to all the consequences that the project can have? What would happen with a single year?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195652	I am of the opinion that it is urgent to start to protect the coast. Having said that, I do not think it would do anything if we spent a year investigating more things. That that was an opportunity we had in the back of our head when we fought through the dyke that we've got. What is the problem here is parliamentarianism and how democracy works. For the SF could vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, but if we do so, I would say to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, there is no one in the negotiating room, along with the big, bad social democrats and the bourgeois people, to secure all these green things that we have fought through and that I assume both the Free Greens, but also the Enhedslisten and the Alternative agree with are important after all. We must ensure that these things are implemented and respected. That is the role we have assumed in the SF. That is what happens if you vote for this when you are SF, that is that it is a breach of agreement, and then we have a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195754	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195756	So, what does the rapporteur think about all these green NGOs who are very concerned about this, in other words with the Green Student Movement, the elderly who are in the climate reminder out there every Thursday morning? Isn't that something that makes SF think about it? Because I think I've heard that SF calls himself the green watchdog. Isn't that something to be considered in terms of whether it's the right priority to choose and that, instead of being the watchdog in there greenwasher, you might be an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195833	Unfortunately, the problem is that there is a majority. We in the SF are happy about that, because we think the idea is good. But that also means that if we vote in favour of this B proposal, then we stand outside and cannot be the green watchdog on behalf of the Free Greens, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, because that majority will still be there. It will be quite massive, after all. So I think that Mrs Susanne Zimmer lacks to deal with it, that although the SF cares a lot about what the green organisations say, we best look after their interests by being able to keep him there in the ears and we cannot do that outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195912	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130195916	who certainly doesn't see SF as the alternative's green watchdog. The green-bellied toad, which the rapporteur is so enjoying with the Minister and calling oh, so common, by the rapporteur, I hope, is an endangered species, a red-list species. I do not understand why the rapporteur is asking the Minister to confirm that it is not likely to be affected by this building when the new report, which the rapporteur is also talking about, says: the new report concludes that the endangered pad lives in the areas that will be affected by the construction, and therefore it risks being negatively affected by the construction. Why is the rapporteur trying to get the Minister to say something other than that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130200003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130200004	I think sir... Torsten Gejl must read the report in its entirety, because what it says is that where the green-bellied toad is, for example, there is. In the case of East Ringvej, which we have not yet adopted. These are not places that are connected to the construction of the island itself. When I say the green-bellied toad is common, sir. Torsten Geejl hopefully well that I do not think it is not on the red list. Of course it is. We in the SF are very aware of that. What I meant now was that it is common to encounter such building projects and that we have dealt with them many times in the past, and we can do that here too. We just need to find out where the problem is and how best we can do something about it. It's definitely not to be funny, at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130200049	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130200052	I think SF's giving up a little too quickly on putting this project on hold. If you vote for it, you're out. You could also try to influence the other parties. You could use the power you say you have as the watchdog you claim to be to try to talk to the other parties about paused this instead of just making a deal like this. There I think the difference between the SF and the alternative is that the SF makes up the black agreements, the alternative votes no to them. These are two legitimate political ways to work, but this does not make SF a watchdog for the alternative, because the SF helps to vote through the big black projects, which are later apparently the watchdog for.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130200135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130200136	But we also help to ensure that it becomes greener than if we were not there. We're helping to secure a smv. We are helping to ensure a zero solution for nutrient emissions. We are helping to secure a marine sea park and a twice as large area for replanting eelgrass as that which could be destroyed, and a cycling bridge and many other things. And I'm assuming that mr. Torsten Geejl, after all, will think that if Lynetteholmen is going to be there, it's better that it's there with those things than without those things. I don't think that's greenwashing. It is parliamentarianism, and it is okay if the alternative does not confess to it, but we do so in the SF. This is how you move and get results and ensure that we do something for the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130200215	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, who has chosen to divide his speaking time into two portions. This means that there are five minutes of speaking time now and five minutes of speaking time after the rest of the rapporteur's speeches. I can give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Enhedslisten, to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130200241	Thank you. The questions I have tried to put to you during this debate must have shown that the reason for the motion for a resolution is that we believe that, since the construction law was passed by L 220, conditions have actually emerged which, in our opinion, make it necessary for the Folketing to withdraw from the emergency brake system. There are various elements that apply. After all, we think that we should wait until the decision is made and you can ask when it will come out of the overall project. We think that would be sensible. Or one should wait until the outstanding problems, which are at all, are further examined and assessed. I have explained some of them in my questions. We also believe in the Enhedslisten that the project is being carried out here under an unprecedented time pressure of the project's size and duration taken into account. It has to be said that the principle agreement is from 2018, so it is only 3 years old, and the project is set to last 50-70 years before it is fully developed with housing, port tunnel and other infrastructure. That is why we may think that there is time to give room for further debate, since so many people are still reporting on the problems of the situation. There are, among other things: The whole discussion about this land dump out in the perimeter. In fact, we believe that the calculations made on the supply of land are nearest to linear calculations, actually assuming that in 50 years or 30 years there is as much land as there has always been. We do not think that this is necessary. You can't actually know that. In any case, it can be said that if you think that it is the same building activity that has to deliver the land, it is equivalent to 4,000-5000 dwellings per year, and if you multiply it by 30 • it is added for 30 years • you are up to something similar to 135,000 homes. I guess that's way above the need. One must also ask: when that land comes from construction activity in the present Copenhagen, in the present Greater Copenhagen, but perhaps also in some local municipalities I do not know what the problem is? What are we going to do with Lynetteholmen if the buildings are built in advance? There, too, we believe that legitimate questions can be asked about what is going on. With regard to the whole issue of flood protection, coastal protection, etc. one can only note that in 2017, before the principle agreement was concluded in 2018, the City of Copenhagen prepared a storm river plan without Lynetteholmen, which was fully in line with securing the city in the same way as Lynetteholmen and perhaps even in reality better. It was at least on the same level, that is to say on the same level as Lynetteholmen. You could also say that the storm flood protection using Lynetteholmen is only there when you get this lock gate inserted, and when does it come straight? It doesn't come until Lynetteholmen is established, i.e. in 30 years, when there's full soil on it. Before it doesn't come, and then there's no windstorm guarantee... you have to assume. This means that it takes 30 years, or how much it will be, but that is approx. 30 years in which Copenhagen is exposed, but at the same time it establishes Lynetteholmen, i.e. the peninsula, which causes problems for the storm flood protection north of Copenhagen, so right up to Gentofte, Hellerup etc. After all, we have a statement from some hydrologists who have told B.T. that this can really make things worse because Lynetteholmen votes out the water. As I have also mentioned several times, this is an irreversible process, and in our opinion there is an undocumented need for a land depot of this size. And we do not think that the derived climate and environmental effects are properly elucidated. When there is suddenly a discussion about the green-bellied toad, that is a very good example of it. That is why we think we should wait for that piece of the project as a whole. In our opinion, it should have been done beforehand and the citizen involvement that will take place when carrying out such a smv. We thought that would have been quite reasonable. I could have mentioned a whole series of other things, but I can see that the President is standing up. There is the entire financial overview of the project. It is so uncertain and the assumption that it should be (the first Vice-President stands up because time has passed)... self-financing does not, in our opinion, hold up.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130200812	Fortunately, the rapporteur has five minutes to go. Henning Hyllested Yes, that's right. I can therefore say that there are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. That also gives us a little more time. The first to make a brief comment on the rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130200826	Thank you. At the beginning of December 2013, the waters were high here in Copenhagen. That's how the train traffic stopped. That's how the airport had to shut down. The Great Belt Bridge had to close. The Øresund Bridge had to close. And it was just because this storm, Bodil, was raging. It puts a thick, fat line under the fact that we have to be prepared and we have to make some decisions if that happens again. At that time we were actually close, 2 cm water rise, that the subway also had to close due to flooding. I am counting on Enhedslisten to agree with me that it is important to ensure climate protection in Copenhagen. And if Enhedslisten doesn't want to help climate-proof with Lynetteholmen, I just want to quietly hear: How will Enhedslisten secure Copenhagen against a storm tide from the north?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130200925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130200927	It is true that the storm Bodil caused a very, very critical situation. And it can be said that the calculations that have also come later from the IPCC say so much that the calculations on which Lynetteholm is based are perhaps already out of date. We can do one of those things. refer to I mentioned it in my rapporteur's speech ■ that in 2017 the City of Copenhagen actually made a storm flood protection plan, which did not contain Lynetteholm. It was a long time before someone had dreamed of Lynetteholm. The idea didn't come until the following year when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen took the initiative. So there are actually plans for this, which accommodates and secures Copenhagen against flooding. Lynetteholm, at least according to the opinion of some experts, really hurts worse because, north of Copenhagen, you can have problems with the tuned-up water that Lynetteholm gives birth to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201031	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201032	Unfortunately, I did not hear anything concrete about what Enhedslisten would do. But there's some suggestion that there's some kind of plan. Is this the kind of dike that Enhedslisten intends to build? Because if you're gonna build a dike out there, you're gonna have to root in the ocean floor, and you're gonna have to do some things where action is taken. I just want to hear: why is it so different from wanting to build Lynetteholm, where you will even have the opportunity to build a new rural area that future decision-makers can use for what they want? Why is it so much worse when Enhedslisten apparently wants to build a dike?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201114	After all, it is not "one plan" that I am referring to from 2017. It was actually Copenhagen's plan for flood protection, and at that time it did not contain anything at all about Lynetteholm. There was no thought of Lynetteholm at the time. So it is not just some plan, it is actually a fully worked out and sensible plan. It is true that if you are to build a dike, there are also some things that need to be vvm-rated and all that is absolutely right. But what we are trying to do here is to get this whole thing clarified thoroughly and properly, and that is not what we think is happening today, because so many of these elements are being questioned by people who actually understand things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201157	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201200	Thank you. Well, one of the things that is really smart about Lynetteholmen is that the installation of the island itself rests in itself. We're talking about 80 million. t to 60 kr. per I think it's a good idea, and it's a good deal, with an amount of 4.8 billion. kr. to construct a port for. In other words, nobody needs money out of his pocket to finance this facility. And then you will also have the opportunity to deposit the surplus land that will come in the coming years. What remains, I think, is important, even after what the rapporteur is replying here, is: how will the Enhedslisten finance that apparently alternative climate protection to the north, if you do not want to make the solution that a large majority of this Parliament is in favour of?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201254	To conclude, I assume that the City of Copenhagen, when they drew up their storm-flood security plan, did, after all, also make some economic considerations. As far as I remember, the price for it was set at 800 million. kr. Well, that's what you think, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen says that you can save by now making a land depot, which is really self-financing because the money from the handover of the land goes to the financing of that one. But there's no certainty about that. How do you know? After all, it is a fact that there will be scratches on that land, and therefore it will probably fall in price. It is as valid an argument as that it is paid 60 DKK and that it becomes self-financing. New similar projects need to be built at Avedoer Holme at some point in time, for example. dykes are being built. We also need a southern flood protection system, and it is likely that dykes, lock gates and such things will also be made. So how do you know it's self-financing? It was a prerequisite, but it is not certain that it will last.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201402	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201404	I think the rapporteur is a little quick when the rapporteur says that this is a fact. What we know is that there is a threat to Copenhagen in relation to the storm tide, as Mr. Thomas Jensen described a moment ago. After all, I do not live in Copenhagen, so in principle I do not care, but I think it is rather strange that we do not take the threat seriously and are not ready to go in and make a solution that will ensure against that storm flood as soon as possible, and therefore strange that we do not fail to make proposals, as the rapporteur does in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201441	Well, I don't make any suggestions. I refer to a proposal from the City of Copenhagen, which itself made a proposal in 2017 at 800 million. kr., I think, and which fully secured Copenhagen against storm tide. Lynetteholmen does not do that, at least not until there are lock gates in it, and perhaps in 25, 30 years' time, when you have built the land depot, when it is completed; before you can really get to it. Before, it cannot be said that the City of Copenhagen and the central parts of Copenhagen are secured. But there is the entire metropolitan area; there is also what lies north of Copenhagen, Gentofte Municipality, Hellerup, and what they are called up there, which some have at least expressed is threatened by Lynetteholmen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201525	The next brief remark is to Mr. Malte Larsen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201529	Thank you very much. I was just around the plan from 2017. It also talks about the recovery of surplus land, and I am glad that the rapporteur agrees in this way that something must be done. May I ask the rapporteur: today, when you build some kind of building, it can be houses, a kindergarten, an addition to a school, you dig out to the building. You load the land onto a truck and drive it through the city, typically to Nordhavn, where there is still room in the landfill. The deposit ceases to have capacity in a short number of years. Where, then, does the rapporteur intend to place the surplus land in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201612	Some of it is to be used for the rest of the coast protection, surely one has to assume. And then you could use the method that you used in Copenhagen for a century or more, where you take that bite by bit, if it's finally that you want it there. You could do that rather than start out with a huge project, and that's what you do. You sort of reverse the process; you start with a huge project, a giant project, the entire peninsula, which then requires so much land that we do not think you know whether you have available over the next 30 years or how much is going before it is filled.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201650	Sir. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201650-2	Now there's no rush to get these things done. As you look into that project, it is precisely staged and just prepared for you to start by tilting land in phase one and then continue to phase two. So perhaps I do not think that the rapporteur has really taken a good look at where all that land should be placed. May I now raise another question: is the rapporteur aware of how many trucking lands are being driven around Copenhagen today from excavations in the metropolitan area?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201722	No, but it certainly doesn't get any smaller. At least it's not gonna be any smaller. You're going to have to run this land through relatively densely inhabited areas to a large extent. But let me say something to the first thing, as the rapporteur says, that there is no rush. No, but why do you start by building this huge project, that is, the Lynette Peninsula, which assumes that you need so much land. You could take it the other way and say that, as land is excavated from the various projects, we use it if that's what you want. But that gives all the opportunities for the people and politicians and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201814	The next brief remark is on Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201817	Thank you. When I saw Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, I was actually positively surprised, and the reason is that Enhedslisten has criticized SF a great deal for voting for Lynetteholm on the condition that we got some green concessions fought through. As I read the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, it was said that the project would simply have been postponed until a number of conditions were met. I thought that was a new approach from the Enhedslisten. In fact, I had just expected that it would be suggested that the project should be stopped and not just paused, so it made me a little interested in whether Enhedslisten, if the conditions set out in the motion for a resolution were met, so that perhaps we could see ourselves in the project, in other words vote for Lynetteholm. Now that the resolution has been formulated as it is, and you just want to have a smv finished, a finished dialogue with the Swedes, etc., does that mean that you might be able to see yourself in it afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130201931	Well, to the point of just having a smv finished or just having a finished dialogue with the Swedes etc. etc. I would say that it is quite essential to decide whether this is a good idea and whether we should continue to do so. We don't believe that. We don't believe this project will ever be a good project. Of course, you can sit in the following groups, etc., as the SF has chosen to do, and that is fair enough, and say that you are the green watchdog, but you do not have a decisive influence on where the project is going, in our opinion. Unfortunately, this project will end up dead by then, but if I lived in 70 years, I am absolutely sure that I would see that Lynetteholmen is built with lots of homes, at least 35,000 homes, that a port tunnel has been built and that a metro line has also been built out there. These are all the things we have not been told. So the SF has no influence on whether the project should become something or whether it should be stopped in the middle of the project, because, as I have said many times, this is an irreversible process which cannot be stopped once it is in progress, and that is also why we have said that the starting point of this motion for a resolution is of course to pause it, because you have to start now, immediately in the new year, digging.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202040	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202043	It may not surprise so much that Enhedslisten still cannot see itself in it, even if the conditions were met. In SF we now think that we have a great influence on the project. When we had the first reading of the Construction Act, I remember Mr. Henning Hyllested's alternate is very sceptical about whether all the things I sneaked up in my rapporteur's speech would now become something, and we actually managed to do so. My question is then: does the Enhedslisten not think that Lynetteholm is better with the concessions we have made in the SF than without?
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202120	I think they belong to the category of less green concessions. What is crucial when this project is gradually developing is the question of development, and that is the question of infrastructure. SF really believes that you, for example. Can stop a port tunnel? It may also be that SF is not opposed to a port tunnel. It's Enhedslisten, because it's just more of the same. It's more highway, more cars, more congestion in the city, and it's those things that are absolutely crucial to whether to sit there or about it, as Mr. Torsten Gejl said earlier, just become something greenwashing, and you get some little green concessions here and there, but the main direction of the project will not be influenced because, as Mrs Valentina Berthelsen also mentioned, there is a massive majority, including bypassing the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202212	Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested for the first round. I'll see you in a minute. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202241	Thank you. Lynetteholmen is a good project, Lynetteholmen is a great project, and as my socialist colleague Thomas Jensen said earlier on the platform, it is also a long-term project in which we will look 50-70 years into the future. In relation to climate protection, there is no doubt that it is timely care to start climate protection in Copenhagen now, and a broad majority in the Danish Parliament was behind this, and thank you for it. The work could start already this year, which means that the crisis that was after Hurricane Bodil now comes a little closer to being over. Lynetteholmen is to be built outside Refshale Island of surplus land from construction in the metropolitan area. The current land depots are being filled, and it is therefore necessary to find land landfills for the surplus land. At the same time, we have a unique opportunity to storm-proof Copenhagen, and there is no doubt that if you read the IPCC report that has just been published, it is also necessary to protect the capital from the water masses. In fact, it can't wait any longer. That is why the launch of Lynetteholmen is extremely important. It's a process that's been going on for a long time. I think I heard about it the first time back in 2015, when you started talking about it. And then we can discuss whether the committee procedure has been thorough enough. Yeah, I promise. 194 questions have been put to the Minister. The minister has stood up here on Parliament's platform for a long time and seen from my chair patiently and debated this. No one has asked as many good and qualified questions as Henning Hyllested's colleague Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen from Enhedslisten did. They did a really good job, and that is why I do not think it can be said calmly that this has not been clarified. At the same time, there have been four consultations. So to delay the project now will be harmful and harmful to everyone. Copenhagen is facing climate protection, and we should not delay that. The Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202509	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202512	I fully agree with the argument that the project is well illustrated. But I have to ask again and again: what part of the project is well illustrated? Have we clarified the overall project, including infrastructure in the form of a port tunnel and metro and settlement, well enough? And where does it stand that it has been properly and properly illuminated? It is nowhere, because it has not yet been elucidated. It has to be said that some of the projects covered include climate protection, protection against storm tides and so on. Then, of course, you can stick to the fact that it has been done fully democratically, and that it has been done as it should, in the Danish Parliament and I agree, I am, and there has been a comprehensive process, but when it is still people with understanding of the parts that keep questioning it, I do not think it is just an expression of such stupidity or is because they are against the projects. I have certainly not been able to read that. On the contrary, I believe that most of them actually support the projects, but they are prepared for it to be proper, it must be thoroughly worked out and it must be based on data.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202626	Now it is the case that we have adopted the installation of climate protection in Copenhagen, Lynetteholm finished, end, boom. The next thing that comes next is: What will happen on top of Lynetteholm? This is the next project, and Mr. Henning Hyllested is absolutely right. In connection with the launch of this, our minister said that he now hopes that in the coming years, citizens and organisations will contribute ideas and suggestions on what will happen at Lynetteholm. That means that nothing has been decided yet. Personally, I very much hope that we will have the building of homes on Lynetteholm so that people can continue to live in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202709	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202710	In relation to what is happening with the democratic process, I agree that this parliamentary procedure has been carried out in accordance with the rules. However, it can also be said that in the course of the procedure the right of appeal has been restricted to ordinary people from outside. There is only legal redress left, which, as you know, is very expensive, and it will be especially in cases like this. It is very expensive to sue ordinary people or NGOs. We have seen a fragmentation of the vvm process, and now the approval of the EU system has recently been obtained, but I think it is with some reservations, at least as I read it. After all, the public debate at the moment is also limited to just talking about Lynetteholmen and what it does for storm flood protection, but not the overall project with buildings and roads and metro (First Vice-President Thank you!), and I'll give you, I'll give you. Niels Flemming Hansen President says thank you. ) Yes, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202804	The President says thank you, yes, and gives the floor to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202808	Thank you. But listen to me, sir. Henning Hylllested. This project is what we have to do. And I simply cannot understand that Mr. Henning Hyllested will go as far as he is doing here by debating this again just because he does not agree with the decision that has been taken. It is when you look at the rapporteur as if the fear of change is enormous, also in relation to Copenhagen. I just have to say that I am delighted that Mr. Henning Hyllested has become a royalist on his older days, in that he regards the Copenhagen founded by Christian IV as something that cannot be done better.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202901	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Greens, and that is Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130202922	We are facing a worldwide crisis that threatens the livelihood of human beings and nature. The young people are standing outside shouting to get through to us to demand that we deal with this crisis as a crisis. Every Thursday there are elderly people with climate reminder down here in the Reichsdagsgården and remind us that action is needed now. NGOs and very many people call for climate and biodiversity responsibility, but we are not listening. There is a lack of understanding of the crisis, so we are actually acting on the crisis and making solutions that are already working from now on, or at least from 2022. So far, we have made agreements that will not help us in achieving the 2030 climate targets, but which are based more on technological and untested solutions. We are only talking about crisis when it is convenient, and that is clearly not convenient right now, since we have heard most parties stand up here defending the project and they will not back it up until we get more information. Lynetteholmen has had no major serious democratic process. Many Copenhageners do not know what the project involves, and the arguments for implementing it either do not hold water or lack the illumination of many conditions. The right of appeal for ordinary citizens has been abolished, which is a major democratic problem. We lack an environmental impact assessment of the entire project. What will this mean for climate, nature, the environment and portrait? Fortunately, the climate movement has been given a free process in relation to the lack of environmental impact assessment for the whole project. This is a very important reason for pause for the project, but also an overall coastal protection plan for the entire capital is important, and in fact one should look at an even larger area on Zealand and see where there is actually and where land will be needed. Finally, the total economic cost of the whole project should be calculated and agreements should be concluded with the Swedish authorities, which we should do under the Espoo Convention, and this should be done before such a project is launched. If it is really about cheaper housing and a coastal protection with respect and care for people and nature, we would be able to do so in far more efficient and less resource-intensive ways and, furthermore, ways that actually have an effect now and not only in 30 years' time, when the entire underwater nature of the harbour is probably destroyed and when the eel grass is gone, because the move of eelgrass cannot necessarily be reckoned with. We are at risk of reducing the marine environment throughout the Baltic Sea due to reduced seawater influxes. 2050 is the year in which the IPCC estimates that there will be over 200 million climate refugees worldwide. This is, in the opinion of the Free Greens, a prestige project, and that is not what we need right now. We need to be based on what we know and on the whole science in terms of what is of danger in this. The time is not for any more fossil infrastructure, but in particular this project is extraordinarily stupid, and I repeat that we have not had an overall environmental impact assessment, an overall coastal protection plan or an overall economic calculation of the whole project. Several mayors, including social democrats, protest over clapping in Køge Bay, and 33 municipalities in Sweden have a desire to stop building because they cannot get an overall assessment of what construction will mean for ecosystems on the Swedish coast where pollution can affect Natura 2000 sites. Of course, the Free Greens believe that we should postpone the Lynetteholm project, pause it, but actually and preferably we saw that the project was stopped and that a democratic involvement of citizens in our capital was made, alternative plans were drawn up that would put effective protection against floods and cloudbreaks, and that cheaper housing would be regulated at a currently crazy housing market. We don't support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130203356	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl... No! Susanne Zimmer, can I get something straight? ) Yes. I would just like to welcome the rapporteur for the Free Greens again because the rapporteur concluded by saying: 'We do not support'.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130203413	Yes, and I very much regret that, because of course we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130203419	I think it might be because time was running out, but thank you for clarifying the position of the Free Greens on the proposal. Welcome to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130203431	Thank you. We live in a time when politicians want to involve the Danes as much as possible in shaping their own everyday life and their own lives. We want the Danes to help develop their neighbourhoods, their parks, their residential neighbourhoods and their cities. In the midst of constructive development, two people appeared: Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Frank Jensen, up with the idea of the construction of Lynetteholmen and about making a city on it. It is one of Denmark's most expensive and unnecessary construction projects. It's gonna run for 70 years. 80 million will have to be transported. The project leaves 200,000 m3 of contaminated sludge in Køge Bay. It's strong CO 2 Yet they got a handful of people in Copenhagen's Citizen's Representation on the idea of "and vupti," it was pulled down over the heads of the Copenhageners and the surrounding municipalities, our Swedish neighbours and the Baltic countries. Not only that, it was also to go furiously fast, so no one was able to discover what was about to happen. The consultation process was quite a joke, and even the mayors of the Socialists are now criticising the resolution. Mayor Marie Stærke, Mayor of Køge and Vice-President of the Social Democratic Party say, for example: to Køge Dagblad, that the process around the construction of Lynetteholmen has been far too closed. It does, she says, that she gets worried and skeptical. They have not known anything, and she is actually indignant about the process because the municipalities should have been involved a long time before. That's why she's working against it with her mayor colleagues. That's what she's telling me. In the alternative, we have fought all we can to at least have time to ask the Copenhageners and the rest of Denmark if Lynetteholmen is a good idea at all. Because if this is really such a good idea, as the government, SF, Radicals, Left, Liberal Alliance, Conservatives, Danish People's Party and LA think, why do you dare not ask the citizens? If this is such a good idea, I suppose the citizens would say yes to it. But, as I said, it has been impossible to do so. Fortunately, we are also living at a time when the smallest demand stops the largest and most unnecessary construction projects. Baltic Pipe was stopped by the hazelnut mouse. The construction of the Amager Common has been stopped by the great water salamander. Now a report shows that Lynetteholmen can affect the green-bellied toad habitat. The Danish Nature Conservation Association has just received a report which points out that neither the first nor the second environmental assessment take a proper position on the green toad's livelihoods. We therefore hope that the Danish Nature Conservation Association or others will lodge a complaint with the Danish courts. That's just one of the reasons why it's wise to pause this project. For once again, it has come so far that civil society has to go to court to get a vote in the debate at all. There is another problem that has been highlighted and which calls for the construction of Lynetteholmen to be paused, and that is sludge. A total of 2.5 million will be dug. m 3 seabed up as a result of the construction of Lynetteholmen, of which 200,000 m 3 To quote again Marie Stærke, Mayor of Køge and Vice-President of the Social Democratic Party, she says she is extremely concerned and thinks she lacks knowledge and openness about what it has consequences. She has nothing against Lynetteholmen, she just wishes they could keep the sludge to themselves in Copenhagen. That's what she says. I would also like to quote radical Mrs Zenia Stampe, although the Radicals have chosen not to be in the Chamber this evening, because during the municipal elections she was with the city council candidates along Køge Bay in the so-called Køge Bay alliance for a better marine environment and against dumping sludge in Køge Bay. That, for example, gave. We are now pressing for the dumping of sludge out of Køge Bay, and I hope that the other parties behind the Lynetteholm project will support pursuing this track, even if it turns out that it risks making the bill a little bigger. The marine environment in Køge Bay is worth the price. Quote out. In the alternative, we fully agree with that. We are also pleased that Mrs Zenia Stampe will review the contracts that will dump the sludge from Lynetteholmen in Køge Bay. Thank you to the Radicals for that. We therefore hope that the Radical Left will take the consequences and pause the Lynetteholm project until we have solved this and many other challenges. For the alternative, the most important thing is that there should be a political process in which the Copenhageners and Danes have the opportunity to decide whether they want a new island in Copenhagen, i.e. a popular mandate. I think we owe it to Copenhagen when it is such a big project with all the climate, nature and environmental consequences it has to build by Lynetteholmen. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130203935	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130203940	Thank you. I get so sad when I listen to sir. Torsten Gejl's speech. I'm listening to a talking tombstone... a tombstone over the Alternative. The alternative was created to create a better democratic dialogue, and Mr. Torsten Gejl and undermine democracy. Every generation gets democracy as a gift here in Denmark, it is not something that we as a safe size can pass on; it is something that we must safeguard and watch out for. When we have a democratic dialogue, we must base it on truthfulness, and I have listened to Mr. Torsten Gejl's speech, and at best there are misunderstandings, at worst conscious lies. The most expensive project ever. Most expensive for who? It is a project that is financially based in itself. That's what Mr. Torsten Gejl, as if due to the construction of Lynetteholm to be run 80 million. to the streets of Copenhagen. Well, sir. Torsten Gejl did not understand that whether you build Lynetteholm or not, there is some land from other construction projects that must be driven to places, but we have so decided that we take the short road and drive it to Lynetteholm to use it for something good. So that's why, sir. Torsten Gejl, if you still want to keep democracy alive and be the new democratic breath of Danish politics, then stick to the truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130204110	Direct indictment cannot be used in the Assembly Hall. The word is now sir. Torsten Gejls. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130204116	That is an extremely serious claim made by the rapporteur, i.e. that I am standing here lying. I said it was one of the most expensive construction projects, I didn't say it was the most expensive. The rapporteur himself can see this in the report from this debate. So please do not make such claims about the alternative. I understand that after six years the rapporteur has still not understood what the alternative has come for. We have come to put an end to the type of climate degradation, the type of natural destruction, the type of environmental damage and the enormous pollution that the rapporteur's party is responsible for when the rapporteur wants to do such huge environmental damage projects in order to create coastal protection. That is what we have come for, and we continue to do so, whether the rapporteur likes it or not. With regard to the 80 million. It is that all this land must be driven exactly in one place, because the rapporteur, as an excuse for building a city, pretends that the rapporteur is making coastal protection, which means that it must be driven through the same streets year after year and that children must live with trucks as a backdrop for their upbringing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130204230	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130204232	I'm just dealing with it, sir. Torsten Gejl says. Even though Mr. Torsten Gejl nuances it into being one of the most expensive projects, it's still a lie, because this project rests in itself. And to all this on the ground, I would say that we have been given questions and answers after questions and answers in the legislative process, yet the rapporteur is standing here and trouble-tapping it. I stick to what I started by saying, namely that this is simply a tombstone over the alternative, because it is to undermine democracy when you do not relate to facts, but constantly tell people outside the windows that there are so many things that are so terrible about this, when you do not even want to deal with the facts that have been laid out objectively by the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130204319	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130204321	I have just told the rapporteur that I did not say what the rapporteur said when the rapporteur said I was lying. Then the rapporteur should be man enough to make an apology for that claim. On the ground, the rapporteur has no idea where it should come from. Only 6 million have been accounted for. a. This is about 80 million. But the rapporteur has no idea where to come from. The City & Port has no idea where they come from either, and nobody does, so the rapporteur cannot stand there and say that they want a particular route or not, because nobody knows that. We've been asking about it over and over and over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130204405	The next brief remark is to Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130204409	That is not so much a question as a comment, and it actually comes down to the fact that Mr. Thomas Jensen was putting a tombstone over the alternative. Perhaps I would like to hear Mr. Torsten Gejl's comment on that. I am thinking, of course, of the outcome of the local elections in Copenhagen, which were not a great success for the Social Democratic Party, and it must be assumed that there are of course many things that affect a municipal election result that include that. Lynetteholmen and the discussion about Amager Samled, Stejlepladsen, Lærkesletten etc. After all, it has played a role. I just want to know about that, sir. Torsten Gejl will comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130204454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130204455	Yeah, I think it has. For commentators who have been busy saying that this municipal election would be our total annihilation, as well as the rapporteur for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is busy putting a tombstone over us, I think I was once again disappointed that we actually got two mandates into Copenhagen's citizens' representation. I am quite sure that if it were the case that we did not have a project like Lynetteholmen and Amager Samled and the other large black construction projects, then there would probably not be so many who voted for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130204530	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There is no further brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and I can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten, who now has access to 5 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130204602	We have, of course, been far-reaching in the discussion here, and many of the themes in the discussion are well known. We've been discussing storm flood protection. I do not think that in the debate I have been convinced that Lynetteholmen is an effective storm flood protection. Or rather, Lynetteholmen is not in itself a sufficient security for the storm. And it can be said that there is simply a lack of a lockgate which, I can hear, will come, but it is nowhere in the plans. That is why I think it would be sensible, as our motion for a resolution says, to wait and look at solutions which may not last for 30 years in the future. As far as the whole question of the flow of the Øresund is concerned, why don't you take the inquiries seriously from some of those hydrologists who know about these things? Some of them have helped to ensure zero solutions in connection with the Øresund and Storebælt construction by compensating excavations. This requirement is not made for Lynetteholmen, although the flow in Lynetteholmen is limited to the same extent as happened at the Øresund connection. But that is where the demand was for a zero solution. This is also a reason to wait, rather than just rushing or running away with the process. Given the size and duration of the project, we think it should be paused, which is also the subject of the resolution. We also lack the economic overview of the overall project, and perhaps we should wait for that. I understand from the Socialist rapporteur that this is something that future generations will just have to take a position on along the way, but no one today seriously doubts that this means building on Lynetteholmen, and that port tunnel and metro are to be set up, and I shall give you that. There, too, one could have just waited and seen and then made an overall economic consideration of it, because that is the way it goes. There is the whole question of the treatment plant Lynetten, which we have not touched on very much at the Minister's attention in his speech and the consequences that it will have for the local area and for the entire infrastructure of the region if it is moved. I understand from the Minister that no decision has been taken on this. No, but the lightning treatment plant can't possibly lie where it is now. At least something must be done about it. We have the whole question and the discussion, which we have also discussed a great deal, about the strategic environmental assessment. I think it is natural to wait for it before you simply push the process forward, so before you start what you are doing right now in the new year, as I understand it. So there are a lot of unresolved things that I think remain after the debate. We clearly do not agree on that, but it also means that this discussion will continue. That is why I would also like to say in the same chop that I thank you for the debate. It has been extensive and thorough, that it will not be the last of the kind. I promise it won't be the last of the kind about Lynetteholmen. In the Enhedslisten, together with the climate movement, environmental organisations and, incidentally, critical citizens in Copenhagen and the surrounding area, we will continue to focus critically on this giant project, which is at issue, and on the many unresolved points in the project in our view, and the many problems that will emerge along the way and, for some, have already arisen, but thus will clearly emerge along the way. Of course, we thank the alternative for supporting the resolution and the same for the Free Greens. Then, of course, I noted that the Danish People's Party was unanswered about it and was actually sympathetic to the resolution. But now they wanted to wait for the work of the committee, as I understood it. Of course, we note this with great satisfaction. The other parties appear as they do. They have the majority, and they appear to be somewhat fact-resistant, and I also think that they are perplexing in relation to the concern expressed by the people of Copenhagen when they do not want to give the time needed for debate and criticism and citizen involvement and such things. And finally, I would like to stress that ignorance does not make a party irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205105	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205110	Thank you. And thank you for securing this debate. And no, it's not gonna be the last one. It's at least 100 percent. Sure. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that the New Civil and Christian Democrats also support the proposal that I should like to say from them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205128-2	Okay, of course, I'm happy to take note of that. Actually, I wasn't aware that I didn't know their position. So, of course, I am delighted that, after all, we are now four parties who think this is a good resolution and that Lynetteholmen is a forced process which should be paused until we know something more.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205152	The next brief remark is to Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205156	Well, I understand that Enhedslisten will continue the debate on this, and we will certainly accept that. I just want to hear Enhedslisten whether it will be made on a factual basis and not on a distorting and lying basis, as has been the case here in Copenhagen. It is so that Enhedslisten Vesterbro has hung up posters with big scare pictures that there should be riding so and so many trucks through Vesterbro I understand that it was something that, when it came to ears in here, created an internal process in the Enhedslisten, because one would actually want to fix it. So I want to know if Enhedslisten will stick to the truth, or whether one will do just like the time when Enhedslisten Vesterbro began to lie about this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205246	Yes, of course we will stick to the factual points of this debate, and in my opinion we are only putting forward factual arguments. I can only talk for what we're doing in here at Christiansborg. I'm not responsible for what Enhedslisten on Vesterbro is doing, and I'm not a what to say about watchdog towards them. And what we're discussing with Enhedslisten at Vesterbro, if we think they made a mistake, we'll take care of ourselves. After all, when we put forward arguments in this case, we're based on inquiries we get, and from articles we see, and on reports that people with an understanding of various elements of this project nevertheless offer. In fact, we think that we owe it to those people too, that is, that they are then involved in a process and that they are taken seriously and that they are not just being rolled over and said: no, we have decided this, now it is running, finished work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205343	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205345	I am sorry to say that the Enhedslisten has left something of a democratic mind. When we dealt with this bill before the summer recess, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said that he regretted very much and apologized for the behaviour that had been shown by Enhedslisten Vesterbro, and now we hear that, no, the present rapporteur will not go into it here in the Folketing. I just think it is a pity if we are to have a debate on such a large project, which is good for Copenhagen, which is climate-safe for the city and which the politicians of the future can decide what it is to be used for, if it is to be done on the wrong basis with half-truths, and that someone has been heard saying something, and that must be the truth. If that is the way Enhedslisten will act in the future, yes, then I think that the great loser here will not just be the Copenhageners, it will also be democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205436	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205438	Now, I think that the Socialist rapporteur is swinging up and has overwhelming moral scruples on behalf of the Enhedslisten. And how we handle internal processes in Enhedslisten I think we should just leave it to the Enhedslisten. Sir. Thomas Jensen does not have to worry that we do not have our moral suit or that we do not stick to democratic processes. I repeat: we do not put forward any arguments that we have not encountered and that there are no teams in relation to the many inquiries we are getting. We may disagree on the arguments, but to start proclaiming people to be democratically called in and such things in the debate actually makes me think that it is the Socialist rapporteur who is currently dragging the debate to a level where it does not belong.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205530	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Henning Hylllested. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211130205547	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 1 December 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I can refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
