ParlaMint-DK_20211207130002	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207130008	Member of the Folketing Edmund Joensen (SP) applied for leave from 7 December 2021, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a). Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207130038	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the fourth deputy for Sambandsflockkurin in the Faroe Islands, Helgi Abrahamsen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 7 December 2021 on the occasion of Edmund Joensen's leave. It should be noted that the first, second and third substitutes do not wish to enter this leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207130058	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207130135	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 17 by Trine Torp (SF), Julie Skovsby (S), Stinus Lindgreen (RV) and Peder Hvelplund (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 59 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), against voting 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 17 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 18 by Jane Heitmann (V), Liselott Blixt (DF), Per Larsen (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Jens Rohde (KD) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207130235	I'm gonna get some rest in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207130248	Thank you for that, President. We have extended Question Time today with our North Atlantic colleagues. Thank you for your always good cooperation, and also welcome to Mr. Helgi Abrahamsen in the Folketing. In my introduction today, I would first of all have talked about the shootings we have witnessed in the last week in the Copenhagen area, last night at the latest. This is a totally unacceptable situation which the government takes very seriously. Visitor zones have been established in the affected areas and the police are massively present. The Minister of Justice has now summoned the parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss the situation, and we are prepared by the government for all possible initiatives to strengthen security, both in Copenhagen and in the rest of Denmark. I would also have liked to talk about the very, very fine financial agreement that has just been concluded with the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Christian Democrats only yesterday. It is a good, responsible and forward-looking agreement that strengthens our welfare society and which continues and accelerates the green transition in Denmark. We are talking about a significant expansion of renewable energy, we are talking about a priority for the country's feeding grounds, investment in primary school and in the future, and about a corona aid package to help the hospital system over the coming difficult months. Thank you to all the parties for a very good cooperation. Instead of all that, I want to talk about something third. Indeed, I will focus on the current corona situation, because there is reason to be concerned. The last week a total of more than 33,000 Danes have been confirmed infected with corona, which corresponds to almost 5,000 new cases every day and the number of inmates has more than quadrupled in the last 2 months. These are numbers that we keep a close eye on, but the concern right now is primarily about the new corona variant omicron, which is spreading rapidly. Other countries are equally serious about the situation. It is only just over a week ago, Sunday 28 November, that the first Danish OMicron cases were confirmed. 7 days later, on Saturday, 135 cases were detected, and yesterday, only 2 days later, 261 were detected. It's gonna be creepy fast. Even more Danes need to be vaccinated more quickly. This applies to the first connector, second connector and third connector. The ambition is for all Danes to be invited to the third stag 51⁄2 months after the second stag, and the authorities are already looking at whether the third stag can be brought forward further. I would like to repeat the call I have made on other occasions: get the third plug as quickly as possible. There are available times for vaccinations in the regions. So you who may have already booked time for the third place, we would like to encourage you to go in and see if you can rebook the time, i.e. advance it to an earlier time. Right now, the authorities are also looking at the possibility and need to update the corona passport with the third plug, and the child vaccines are also being speeded up. All children between 5 and 11 years of age are now being opened up to vaccination. Capacity needs to be strengthened so that it can keep up. From next week, the aim of the authorities is to vaccinate half a million Danes a week. Each connector counts, and this is the most important thing for us to get through the winter as well as possible. I also have to say that we are there now, when we are following developments very closely, not on a daily basis, but more and more authorities are now considering whether further necessary action is needed. We must and we cannot let the pandemic run wild in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207130658	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now we move on to questions from the party leaders. I can inform you that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti, is today's last questioner at your request. But we start with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207130720	Greenland is Greenlandic, Greenland is not Danish. Quote out. Those words were given by the Prime Minister when the former US President Trump wanted to buy Greenland. These are important words that show that the Prime Minister recognises Greenland as a people with their own language, culture and population. Together we have chosen to be in a community, a community of kingdoms, a community to which a majority in Greenland actively chose, when we said no to becoming American and we said no to Trump. It is also a community which often benefits both Denmark and Greenland, but also a community which sometimes lags behind and which many have views on. Whatever wishes we may have for the future, we must acknowledge that indifference is almost worse than hatred. Interest in each other is the glue that binds us together historically, in the present and in the future. Recently, Greenland experienced a very great crisis. We had an energy and security of supply that was in danger, and for a little week, a third of Greenland's population had to be without electricity and heat in the middle of a cold winter. It crippled our capital, which was strongly influenced by violent storms that came and went. Emergency response was set in motion, and the police had to meet out on the street. Thanks to the authorities for good handling in a very difficult situation. But it is also thought-provoking in modern times and in the modern Arctic capital, which we actually describe ourselves as. It also shows how vulnerable our society really is. If one third of the Danish population did not have access to electricity and water for a little week, I think we had seen several yellow beams and breaking news in the Danish media, and therefore I would like to ask the Prime Minister as Minister of the press and the Kingdom Community what more can we do in terms of ensuring an interest in each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207130924	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207130928	Now I am not going to go into a discussion of what is going to breaking news in Danish media, and the relevance of the way you select what goes in breaking, and what does not, either in relation to the kingdom community or Danish affairs. However, I can understand what is at the root of the question: why is there not a greater interest in the Danish media in something so important for the whole Kingdom community, namely the Kingdom community itself, but also the conditions that may exist in all parts of the Kingdom community. I do not have the opportunity to go in to impose on Danish media that one should take an interest in the kingdom community. I have no opportunity or desire to enter into a specific discussion on this, but as a Kingdom community we have a very, very great interest in knowledge and knowledge. We have had the opportunity to discuss this in the past, among other things. in relation to the school and our educational system, which is an obvious place to start, to be sure that everyone who grows up as children and young people in the Kingdom community knows what the Kingdom community is, but also knows the three parts. But I cannot go into a specific media discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131046	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131047	Thank you. After all, we have negotiations up to a future media settlement where there is an opportunity to discuss some of these things about how the Kingdom community can fill something more. We also know that discrimination and marginalisation of Greenlanders is still taking place in Denmark. The question for all of us must be how we can work towards a future where native Greenlanders are treated equally and we stop the marginalisation that exists. Today we are under-represented in the labour market as Greenlanders, and we are over-represented in the social statistics that must and must change. A citizen's proposal for an action plan against hate crimes in Denmark is now being discussed here in the Danish Parliament. Discrimination against Greenlanders should also be part of those considerations, and we should also look at a change in the criminal law in Greenland. That is why I would like to know whether the Prime Minister is prepared to make a stronger effort to overcome the discrimination that is also being practised by Greenlanders living in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131143	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131145	It is, of course, a relationship which I think is described quite well in the recent Greenlandic literature, which I myself had the opportunity to read, now that the Nordic Council Literature Prize has been congratulated on this for the first time. It is very well described what can happen in the meeting between Greenlandic and Danish when you move on Danish soil as a young Greenlander. I think it is true that there are both prejudices and discrimination. I'm always open to discussing how we best meet it. We have challenges in various areas of our society, both with prejudice and with discrimination and with what follows, and I think that we should discuss this under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice, i.e. whether there is anything we can do further. And what we can do at any rate is what we are doing here from the Parliamentary Chamber and, by the way, we are doing, I think, really, really good cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131247	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131249	Thank you very much. In 2019 the Prime Minister made an active and very courageous decision to open the door to one of the dark chapters of our common history. This has since resulted in the godhavn boys and experimental children being apologized to the Prime Minister. The children are today adults, and they have a common feeling that they share a very cruel treatment of themselves as children, and that together they got the courage to stand up and tell about it. Since then, it has come to light that a Greenlandic man, sir. Tage Siegstad from Ilulissat, is another of the Godhavns boys, and that he also has the opportunity to seek compensation. The apology applies to all the children who lived at the orphanage in Godhavn when there was abuse and abuse of the children. Three of the godhavn boys have been awarded compensation, and now the experimental children have written to the Prime Minister asking for the same treatment. Will the Prime Minister meet the demands of the experimental children for compensation? And finally, thank you for the answers, and also thank you for the cooperation in 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131350	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131351	Thank you for that question too. It is quite true that we have chosen to give an apology which has been a long time along the way and which I still think is absolutely appropriate when you see what happened about the so-called experimental children, that is, the terrible things that happened then, and the scars of body and soul that the children have contracted afterwards. In relation to the specific case and the claim now made in relation to compensation, the case is now in the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131428	The question is over. Thank you to Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Then it's Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131438	Thank you. Let me first sign up for good cooperation and congratulate all of us on the forthcoming Finance Act, and I would like to say that we are very pleased with the negotiations and the cooperation we have also had underneath. The mandate for Foreign, Security and Defence Policy Contact Committee between Greenland and Denmark was signed this year. This gives us hope for closer cooperation and coordination between the Naala Suisut and the government in the areas where Greenland is mentioned. The Contact Committee is nothing less than necessary, with a greater focus on the Arctic in recent times. That leads, among other things. to the fact that there is a great deal of interest from other countries, something that needs to be navigated in. One of the prime minister's most important tasks is also to conduct diplomatic talks with world leaders from near and far. And in the event that the Prime Minister discusses Greenland or Arctic during a meeting with other world leaders, even if this is not on the agenda, how will the Prime Minister ensure that Greenland is also involved in the issues under discussion? In other words, how will the Prime Minister's approach be to ensure that Greenland is involved and informed about the conversation that has taken place about Greenland or the Arctic when other world leaders ask to discuss these issues with the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131557	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131559	Thank you for that question. I think we have a few examples of how well this work can be organized. This is happening, for example. in connection with the visit by the American Foreign Minister to Denmark, where the Foreign Minister takes the initiative to ensure that there is a proper dialogue in the Kingdom Community both directly with visitors, but also in, one can say the Danish Government's preparation for the meetings. In fact, I think it is a really, very good example of how, by organising our work wisely, we can ensure that the Kingdom community has a room to discuss and relate to our own internal affairs before we have to discuss something that concerns the Kingdom Community with others. Then there may be spontaneous situations. This is what is often done in the context of NATO meetings, for example, where there may be a question about the Arctic, and there you cannot necessarily have completely prepared every detail, but there we have such a close dialogue now not only because of the contact committee, which I am glad to have support, but also in the ongoing dialogue we have on the cross-checks that, as a starting point, whether it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs or it is myself as Prime Minister, we want to have a dialogue with the Naalak Suisut, in relation to what might have been affected in a meeting. So I actually think we've found a pretty good framework for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131734	Aki-Matilda Matilda-Høegh-Dam, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131736	First of all, I would like to thank you for your answer and then a little bit about the fact that in 1951 Denmark signed a defence agreement with the United States on Greenland, an agreement which was also renewed with the Igaliku agreement in 2004. According to the Igaliku Agreement, the United States has confirmed that they would like to inform and consult Naala Suisut and, of course, the Danish Government prior to any significant change in the military facilities and operations, and some media have reported that the United States is now planning to undertake a major upgrade of Thule Airbase, and according to the newspaper Sermitsiaq, Inatsisartut in Greenland has not been informed of the United States' plans. My question is this: has the Prime Minister been informed of such plans by the United States, and if so, has it been ensured to inform the Naala Suisut of the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131824	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131826	What I can say is that together with Greenland we are in close dialogue with the United States about the American military presence in Greenland. When it comes to such specific matters, that is, the Thule Base, I would say that the Foreign Policy Name is the right place to be informed, and not here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131848	Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131850	It is, as far as I could understand, that neither the Greenland Committee nor the UPN were informed. So I just wanted to make sure that there is some kind of understanding that it has been discussed and that it has been ensured that this information has also moved on to Greenland. Because if Inatsisartut UPN, if you can call it "it has not been informed," it has to be because Naalaksususut has not been informed or because Naalaksusut has not passed on the information. So it's a little bit to get some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131928	I cannot give that clarification, i.e. what might be the case in Greenland. I can repeat what I said before: that together with Greenland, we regularly have a close dialogue as regards the American presence in relation to Thulebasen, and that here in the Folketing is the Foreign Policy Name, which is regularly informed about the same relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207131953	Thank you. The question is over. We move on to Helgi Abrahamsen, who has just been approved as a parliamentarian. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132006	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, this is my first day in the Folketing, so the questions will be of a very kind nature this time, and then we will see what it can develop over time, another time. The Prime Minister, together with the Faroese Layerman and the Home Ruler of Greenland, has agreed to set up a so-called Contact Committee to coordinate foreign and security policy between the Kingdoms. As far as I am concerned, the new Contact Committee reflects a clear will to coordinate and address foreign and security policy issues across the Kingdom community. The North Atlantic and the Arctic are increasingly coming in the light of security policy, and therefore the active participation of the Faroe Islands and Greenland is also of growing importance. I'm sure it's going to benefit all of us. I consider the new Contact Committee to be part of a necessary modernisation of the Kingdom community. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is this: does the Prime Minister agree with me that parliamentary cooperation between the relevant Foreign Affairs Committees in the Kingdom parts should also be strengthened?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132122	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132124	Once again, welcome to the parliamentary work and also to the Question Times here. I agree with the analysis of what the contact committee is an expression of. It is precisely an expression of recognition in all three parts of the Commonwealth that we need to strengthen cooperation, that we need to strengthen dialogue. Foreign and security policy is filling the Arctic more and more, and that is why we also need a new forum, which is what we have established with the Contact Committee. As a starting point, I am not interfering with how the parliaments, how the Folketing organises their work, and I will refrain from doing so in this context. If one considers that one would like to have greater cooperation across the three, one can of course freely do so, but normally it will not be the government that assesses how the Folketing should work; it is more often the Folketing that has opinions on how the government should organise its work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132232	Here you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132234	Thank you for your answer. And also thank you for your welcome. My first question then raises another question: hybrid threats and cyber threats. Today we are experiencing a high degree of these threats and attacks throughout the world, including here in the Kingdom community. As I understand it, the attacks may be difficult to identify and protect themselves from due to their changeable and sometimes intangible character. That is why I believe that we should take this up to the level of the Commonwealth, so that we will be stronger in resisting these threats. The Prime Minister has said before in Question Time that the Faroe Islands have good opportunities to consult the Center for Cybersecurity with regard to cyber threats. That is, of course, true, but I believe that we should equip our defences against these threats to an even greater extent than we do today. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that strategic contingency planning should take place at the level of the Kingdom, so that we exercise the coordination and cohesion between the three parts of the Kingdom Community and thus avoid enemy actors exploiting weaknesses in and between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132405	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132405-2	I think it is beyond doubt that one of the biggest risk factors for the security of the Kingdom community I can say that the same thing, which specifically applies to Danish security, also applies to European security is cyber threats. We also have other military and more, you might say, old-fashioned threats that we have to deal with. However, cyberattacks and hybrid attacks are one of the absolute greatest risk factors that is, and it is already included as a major part of the cooperation we have in the Kingdom community. There is a great deal of attention to it; we know what vulnerabilities there are, and we also know that this is one of the areas in which we must constantly become even more capable of defending ourselves against those who do not want to open up democracies well.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132503	Helgi Abrahamsen for his last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132504	Thank you. The last subject I would like to ask is our unity. It is important for us to have a viable kingdom community, and it is only as strong as we make ourselves. Therefore, we constantly need to break down the prejudices that may arise in a Kingdom community. We as a Kingdom community need more knowledge about each other. This is especially true for our young people and children. In my opinion, it is especially children and young people in Denmark who know too little about the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and that is natural in that case, because Denmark is the big country in the Kingdom Community. That is why we are very pleased that the government, together with the support parties with the 2022 Finance Act, will grant 3 million. kr. for a project we have developed together with DUF, entitled "Young communities across the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark", which is why I want to ask the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister share my concern that the young people in Denmark know too little about the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and how else does the Prime Minister think we can do away with this information asymmetry?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132615	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132617	Yeah, I actually share that assessment. There was a witty soul who told me some time ago that there are now more Danish children who have been in Thailand than there have been in the kingdom community, and I think that is true. Our kingdom community is something very unique. This is a large part of our common history, and it is a very, very large part of our present, and now we have just been talking about foreign and security policy, and the Arctic and thus the Commonwealth play a crucial and important role. And besides, we are also deeply filtered into each other on a personal level in the Kingdom community qua studies, work, family relationships and friendship relationships. So what we can contribute from our side in raising knowledge and knowledge about the Kingdom community, we are happy to contribute. And thank you for the roses in relation to the financial agreement that has just been concluded, including in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132711	Thank you, sir. Helgi Abrahamsen. The question is over. Here you go, sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132728	Thank you. Time is running out, and now it's only a year and a half before the elections. I would say that during the Prime Minister's office four more years in addition to the one and a half. She's a good woman, and we have a good cooperation, but I wouldn't be so comfortable with it if it happens on the basis that was predicted in Altingen last Tuesday. On that day, the net newspaper published the weighted average of November month polls, and the result showed 88-87 to blue block. The blues stand to win, said the commentators, but that's wrong. 88 seats elected in Denmark would give the blue block an electoral victory, but hardly government power. For it is very likely that the elections in Greenland and the Faroe Islands would trigger at least three red and at most one blue mandate. So the result would be 90 to the red ones and 89 to the blue ones. The North Atlantics wanted to convert the victory of the Blues into a defeat. I think it's like when I'm watching football on the couch, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm cheering when Liverpool scores, yes, we got goals! No, there were no targets anyway, we cancel it. This is how the role of the North Atlantic can be, and you are sometimes really annoyed with VAR. As I said, it is good if the government can continue, but I think it is a little unfair and that it may even have limits to being called a little undemocratic. At any rate, I think that the Faroe Islands would not like it if there were a side that won the election, but that then a mandate was elected in Denmark and gave the victory to the losers. As the picture is right now, the PM would of course win on it, but she can also lose on it. In principle, what does the Prime Minister think about the fact that we North Atlantics, as the scheme is, can fly south across the Atlantic and give the victory to those who have lost an election in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132942	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207132943	I mean, you prepare for a great deal as Prime Minister, but Mr. Sjúrður Skaale to ask a question that cannot possibly have been prepared for, and this is also the case here. The first thing I want to say is that I do not think that VAR should be in football at all No, we agree!). And that is probably the most important thing I can say in relation to this, because football must be allowed to stand by itself, and so must politically. It is true that, according to our constitution, there are 179 members of the Danish Parliament and that they constitute a mandate each, and we now have the rules of the game that we have in relation to the formation of governments, which we have in our constitution, and I do not rule out any mandates in this context. And I am not going to speculate about an election result or what might happen after there has been a parliamentary election at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133041	Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133042	Thank you for your answer. No, it is clear that the formal is the way it is. But it is also a fundamental political principle that voters and taxpayers are the same people. And although the Faroe Islands and Denmark are economically connected in many ways, we each have our economy and each our tax system. And when I vote for the Finance Act, as I will of course do, I place burdens on the Danish electorate, but not on my constituents, because they do not pay taxes in Denmark. They will not punish me for anything I do here, because they do not feel the consequences of the burdens I place on the electorate through the Finance Act. And I can, in theory, if I am re-elected and I become the decisive vote, put my support for the one who offers the highest level of support for a Faroese mandate, which gives the government politically or financially, I support. Of course I will not do that, but someone who is more bad than me would be able to do it; it is possible. And that will not happen to his constituents. I know the Prime Minister is dealing with the formal issue, but does she see the political problem in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133154	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133156	I note first of all that the questioner has already indicated that the questioner believes that this government should continue and I must continue as Prime Minister, and I hope that this will be the case if and if this example were to take place after an election and there would also be support for the continued operation of the government. There are many unknowns in that equation. In relation to the more fundamental point, I must say that I myself have had no reason to challenge what follows from the fact that we are a kingdom community, and a natural consequence of our being a kingdom community is that there are North Atlantic mandates in the Folketing. This is not something we have any intention of changing, and I must also say that I think that it is working well in the day-to-day work, moreover, under changing governments and changing North Atlantic members. And I just have to say that the four North Atlantic members bring something really, really important to the Danish Parliament, namely a focus on the conditions that apply, specifically in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but also in relation to the overall functioning of the Kingdom Community. So I have no problem with or otherwise propose changes to the conditions under which we work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133312	Thank you. Sir. Sjúrður Skaale, final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133315	Thank you for that and thank you for your commendation. This has been discussed. In the Latting it has been discussed and the former deputy chairman actually presented a proposal for a resolution that the parliamentary mandates should be abolished, among other things. on the basis of what I just talked about. And there are also voices here in the Folketing who have advocated that one from, for example. The Faroese side should decide that you always support those who win the elections in Denmark. In other words, we respect the Danes' choices and say: we will not tip the result; we support those who win, no matter what. Then, of course, you disassemble yourself; you become a smaller politician and more such a kind of representative, but you will avoid ending up in a situation where a person elected in the Faroe Islands can deprive the Danish majority of its victory. And, as I have said, these are thoughts which have also been put forward here in the Folketing by certain Members. Does the Prime Minister have any thoughts about the idea that North Atlantic members should always support those who win?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133421	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133422	No, I haven't. So, it is the Constitution that is the framework for the composition of the Folketing, and that also applies to the four North Atlantic mandates.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133430	The question is over. Thanks to Sjúrður Skaale. Then we move on to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133439	Thank you for that, President. Back in September, the government launched its political reform project... it was in Fredericia... and it couldn't be big enough. Three months later, it seems a little like the government's forgetting book and the negotiations are still a little quiet, perhaps also because of the financial law negotiations that have just been concluded. Nevertheless, this is something that concerns me quite a lot, because reforms are needed if we are to address the shortage of labour we see at the moment, reforms are needed if we are to secure our prosperity and reforms are needed if we are to ensure our welfare, if we are to have more people in work and if we are to be able to ensure that work pays off. Compared to the latter, I had an interesting experience here during the municipal election campaign, where I traveled around the whole country. One of the places I visited was the former Lindøværft, where among others. Fayard is housed now and has a shipyard. I came there because their trusted colleague Bjarne had written to me asking me to stick to the Left's proposal to raise the top tax line. What he said was: The green transition requires an extraordinary effort from all craftsmen; when the year goes on pouring and outdoor work becomes sad, gray, wet and cold, one really has to pull on the last batteries to find the last energy to make the extraordinary effort. Bjarne's not the only one thinking. I get many of these kinds of inquiries, and it's from nurses, it's from truck drivers, it's from diligent people around Denmark who pay top tax. That leads to my question: does the Prime Minister not agree with the Left that we should give these people a hand in order to ensure that it is also possible for them to make the last extra effort at work and so that we can do something about the shortage of labour that many employers are shouting about?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133640	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133642	I am basically of the opinion that it is always worthwhile to make an extra effort. I agree with much of what the President of the Left is saying here today, and will already jump to the crucial point in the answer, namely that of course we are now continuing work on Denmark can more. I welcome the support for what the government put forward after the summer break and also the importance of a broad agreement. I also think that I can interpret the issue today in such a way that the Left is prepared to continue the negotiations with a view to reaching a broad political agreement. Top tax relief is not something the government has put forward. We are focusing on some other areas which we consider to be more important, such as the removal of some of the set-off rules, so that we can ensure that we do not set off against a pensioner's income in a marriage where there is a pensioner and one who is in work in the way we are doing today. That is how we can have different proposals. But we have to get on with this work. It is vital that, even if we have the highest level of employment ever, and we have that right now in Denmark, the lowest unemployment rate for 12 years and the highest growth rate for 15 years, we continue the right economic course, including ensuring that more people get to work. So I welcome the words today and look forward to further negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133800	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133802	We are, of course, pleased about this, because of course we would like to have talks as soon as we are invited, and I hope that will be soon, because there has not been much reason to sit on our hands since September. Unfortunately, I did not really get the answer I had hoped for on the issue of the top tax limit, that is to say, the raising of it a little, so that more people get more out of, also financially, making an extra effort. I just hope that this is not due to some ideological opposition to it. You can test that by asking if it's only at the top, the government says it's not a seed sown in our garden. How about doing something at the bottom that benefits the people who go to work instead of not? We need as many people as possible to become part of the working community and to have the freedom that lies in it. We also need it as a society, but primarily the individual people need it. It could, for example, be done. is about our proposal to increase the employment allowance so that more people benefit from going to work. Can we get this into our negotiations now?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133859	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207133903	I have no great desire to stand and reject all good ideas when we negotiate. I say openly and honestly that relief in the top tax is not something that we ourselves have brought from the government. But I will actually try not to stand every time there is a proposal and say: no, we will not, and we will not. Because if we're going to make a broad political agreement, we're going into space, and we're going into the room with each other, and there we're going to have different starting points. If everyone agrees that we are in a situation where we have a thundering Danish economy, that things are going really, really well for the Danish economy, for Danish companies, that we have as low an unemployment as we have, and as high an employment, and that we want more people to work, but also have some of those who are in work to work even more, if at all possible, then I have no great appetite to stand and say no to a lot of ideas, because then I would actually rather accept the words that I interpret them today and have us go ahead with the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134001	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134003	I am pleased that the Prime Minister is taking it down positively. I can say that we have not actually proposed lowering the top tax, but we have proposed raising the limit on who should pay top tax, and that is a little different. I understand that this is a little diffuse, but an area in which the government is not very diffuse is when it comes to benefits for mainly unemployed immigrants, because there you want to be resolute, and this is also the case in the recent Finance Act, where, for the third consecutive year, the so-called temporary allowance of 2 000 tax-free dollars is raised every month to some people outside the labour market. I know that I have said this before, but it is because the government has also adopted this temporary benefit before and continues to do so, despite the fact that the Prime Minister said before the elections: the policy of foreigners is not being relaxed and benefits are not being increased. To what I would call it temporary and just continue it year after year, I would say that it is still a benefit that has been raised. So isn't this one thing we have to take into account in the reform negotiations that we have here and now, in other words, this thing about ensuring that working for this group is also better worthwhile? It hampers integration by keeping people out of the labour market. Let's give them a chance. Shouldn't we look at these benefits and get rid of them so that it pays better, including for those people, to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134116	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134116-2	Of course, we stand by the agreement we have just reached with a large majority in the Folketing. I think it suits the Folketing, and we have seen many examples of this here over the last two and a half years that we can actually work across the middle. Of course, we are not running out of an agreement we have just made, nor are we, though, and everyone knows that it is not this that has absorbed the government most, but rather some other parties. I think we should stick to the fact that if you are on cash benefits in Denmark, it is clearly worthwhile going to work. Cash benefits in Denmark are relatively low, and we have had the opportunity to discuss this in the past. I think it's more like when it comes to, among other things... refugees and immigrants and others with a non-Western background, that there are some other challenges that it is equally important to be concerned with, and that is why I hope that we can reach an agreement on a 37-hour work obligation. I know that the Left is concerned, it is the government's concern that those who, for various reasons, are not in employment and are unable, as it is today, to support themselves, but receive a benefit, must deliver 37 hours of work in return. It was something we could make a deal with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134220	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. The question is over. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134229	Thank you for the floor and thank you for an excellent financial law that we jointly made yesterday and also for the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left, the Christian Democrats and the Alternative. I'm very excited about that. I think it's gonna do a lot of good. And then for something quite different: For the past week we have seen a series of brutal shootings at Nørrebro in Copenhagen, at Frederiksberg, in Rødovre and again last night in Herlev. In a number of cases, innocent people have even been very close and unbiased as witnesses and potentially random victims of the gangs. Over the years in here, we have repeatedly made gang packages, games, and it has not narrowed down condemnation and outrage across the political divides, so we have seen the tools. Over a relatively short period of time, Sweden has moved from being one of Europe's most peaceful countries and thus one of the world's most peaceful countries to being one of the countries with the most shootings, the most explosions, killings and gang wars throughout Europe. Denmark is not Sweden, and I do not think we will be. In Denmark, we have reacted much earlier and were prepared to hit harder. So I hope and believe that we will not end up there, and that is good, but nevertheless I am deeply concerned that year after year we have these periods of shooting, because between the shootings there is violence, intimidation, massive insecurity-building behaviour in the street, drug trafficking, car burns and much more. I know that we have all had a great deal of focus on corona, and so have I, and that has been quite right, but the truth is that, unfortunately, corona does not seem to go away just for the time being and that it has limited some of our community activities, including some of the police. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following question: recently it emerged that the Al Capone strategy, which directly targets the gangs' purse, has been reduced for a longer period because of the covid-19. What does the Prime Minister think must be the next step for us to get back to the tough gang action regardless of corona?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134447	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134448	It is quite true that things other than Denmark have gone worse, but I share the analysis of how bad this is, but I also have to stress that it is not enough to pursue a tough legal policy. It is also necessary to pursue a tough immigration policy, because the problems that are gang-related, including in other countries, have a connection with foreign policy. So if you want to secure a Denmark that is safe, where there is not too much crime, where there is not too much organised crime, then you also need to get your foreign policy under control. Unfortunately, the two things cannot be separated, because too many people have come here over the years who do not want the Danish society well, and this also applies to some of their successors, unfortunately. So, unfortunately, immigration policy and legal policy are two sides of the same coin in a number of areas. We are painfully aware of this by the government, and if we need further initiatives, I hope there will be broad support in the Folketing for it. I am not aware of the specific example that was given. The Minister of Justice has to answer that question. I can say what is the general overall position of the government. It is that everything we can do must be done, not just in the current situation, but at all. There, too, we have had cooperation with previous governments in relation to gang packages which, of course, have had an effect. There have been gunfires in the past. It has been dampened, and probably quite tough tools have been used, which have proved to have a positive effect. And as I said before, we're willing to discuss anything that may be necessary to get rid of this creature.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134632	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134633	SF is pretty much ready for that, too. That is why we have presented our own gang package, and that is why we have been concerned that the Al Capone strategy has been so reduced for a long time, and that is also what I asked the Prime Minister about, as a recent report by the State auditors shows that the police do not patrol targetedly based on crime patterns in nearly 30%. by their patrols. I would therefore like to ask the government whether it has done anything to change that priority, because that is exactly what we need: that we continue to follow it in terms of objectives and that we push the gangs to the maximum.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134707	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134709	I would just like to mention that we have in fact jointly chosen to strengthen tax control, which is also important in terms of organised crime. For financial crime and violence and physical footprints on the streets have a close connection. Moreover, we have also jointly reached a broad agreement on police matters, also with a view to strengthening efforts in this area. The Left has then chosen to stand outside, you might say, a large part of the entire fight against crime in Denmark, unfortunately, but fortunately we have been able to make an agreement, among other things. with SF, on the strengthening of Danish police. There will of course be some specific questions about the work of the police, which I cannot answer as Prime Minister. You have to ask the Minister for Justice about that. I can just say overall that what needs to be done, we in the government will be willing to provide.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134754	Pia Olsen Dyhr, final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134754-2	Yes, and I believe that the Prime Minister should also note that the SF is willing to do so. We have presented a gang package, which is why we are also concerned that these things, which have been reduced, are coming back on track. We will take that with the Minister for Justice, as far as I know tomorrow, because it has been quite important for us to get back on track. The last question is about corona, and thank you for starting with it, because that is quite crucial. The infection is rising, and the new variant, whatever it means, is to a large extent quite unknown, but it is rising. We are now on the threshold of a Christmas lunch period and the time right after Christmas and New Year with lots of social gatherings, and of course also with a very high risk that we have only seen the peak of the infection with all the consequences we know to be following in relation to our health care, in relation to people who are being infected, in relation to people who have to stay at home from work to be with their children. We are in fact in danger of a new wave of infection. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister will be a little at the forefront of the discussion we may be having tomorrow, but it is whether it is not time to appeal strongly to all of us to consider the Christmas lunch once more, to consider whether we should do a little more homework and start taking this a little more seriously than we have done so far, even though the Danes have done a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134913	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207134914	My experience is not that people are not taking it seriously, but rather that each of us is doing what we can to comply with the restrictions and rules that exist. The authorities are considering, as I also said, whether further action is needed, and I have to say that I think there is. We have had as a principle throughout this pandemic, and I would like to maintain that as Prime Minister I first express the concrete steps that may be necessary when we consider this to be necessary. And I'd like to do that in this case too. But I share the analysis of how serious it is, and that is also why I spent so much of my initial time on it. And we must each prepare ourselves for the need for further action in the immediate vicinity of the conversation we have here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135004	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. The question is over. Then we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135013	Thank you. I am also very pleased with the Finance Act, although we still have outstanding issues, such as: As far as labour is concerned. However, I would like to spend my time on something else, because last year I have spent a lot of time on what I call politics broken, i.e. the fact that citizens lose confidence in us and in politics when we do not commit that confidence-building. I would like to give an example of this, because we ourselves have been involved in a lot of things that did not give rise to confidence and which we have also changed. The reform of the primary school is an example of this. But there is a new example: the relocation of seats from the large cities. It's an agreement the government made in a few weeks and with a broad majority I recognize that but it didn't miss warnings, and now we see the disaster. The University of Copenhagen removes 1,600 study places, CBS closes 628 study places and closes a number of studies completely, the IT University cuts its study places here in Copenhagen by 10%, as does the English-language degree programmes at DTU, and Aarhus University removes 820 study places. It's a list that goes on and it's a long one. So we slaughter study places at a time when we know well that we have to make a living by being more skilled than all other people, not richer, not better placed, but more skilled. That is why I and the Radical Left are sorry about the agreement. I therefore believe that it reflects the fact that, unfortunately, politics can also be made badly. Although it is a really good intention that more young people outside the big cities should be able to take an education, reality hits this. At least three things remain: firstly, the agreement is going to play more country against city: more education outside the cities must be paid for with less urban education. Why not have more education in more places? Secondly, de facto de facto relocations are becoming decommissioned and there will therefore be fewer opportunities for young people to take up training. Thirdly, fewer places of study increase the pressure of character. That is why I would say to the Prime Minister: it is not long since we actually tore down a ceiling on education. So could we consider not building it up again here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135234	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135236	First of all, I would like to say that the government has, after all, reached a broad political agreement on the relocation of higher education, so that we ensure that education is available throughout the country. It's not about less training places. I am also pleased that the Finance Act once again gives priority to our education world, both for the children and also for some of the students. It is about supporting that there should be good educational opportunities throughout Denmark. It is also important for me to say just now that the educational institutions have not been required to close education programmes or reduce study places, nor has the University of Copenhagen been required to close 1,600 training places. A broad agreement has been reached, and part of the broad agreement is about the fact that the educational institutions have been asked how they can contribute to the existence of education throughout Denmark. When those contributions come in, that is to say when they have been received, it is after all the contracting circle, and not only the government, but the Folketing and the government, who then make an overall plan. It's just to nuance it with the process. I mean, you didn't tell a university to drop seats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135350	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135351	No, but that is the consequence of the agreement. They are being shut down now, that is what is happening out there, and that is what I just don't really make sense to me. Today there are a number of study places which have just been set up around the country to attract students, even in smaller places, and who are unemployed. There are seats available in a number of cities because there are no young people applying to these places. So there are free study places. How is it, then, that the answer is that we have to make more study places in the country and lay them down where the young people apply? I simply cannot understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135433	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135435	I guess it's about whether or not we want education across the country. If we are not willing to discuss with each other how to ensure that it will also be the courses that receive a search, then we will not get training throughout the country. I have to say that in all the dialogues I have had around Denmark, when I have asked how we counteract the extreme centralisation that the previous government and not least Lars Løkke Rasmussen were behind, it is almost always the same answers that I receive. It is very much about access to school and education. It's about access to broadband. It's about whether you can take mortgage loans. We have also solved this problem over the last two and a half years. And, of course, this is also about some other matters. But it is often that access to school and education is very, very high on the list, and I think it is absolutely crucial that one can train oneself as a teacher in Svendborg and a teacher in Holbæk, and that we ensure that there is a proper training offer in Skive and Hjørring. If we agree on this, we will also have to ensure that there is a recruitment basis for those training courses.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135543	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen with one last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135545	Yes, but that requires that some people apply to the available seats who are available all over the place. So just putting more available seats in, I find it very difficult to see makes sense, and I don't really think I got the answer either. Now the Prime Minister himself said that broadband would be needed. We just distributed 500 million. kr. from the Digitalisation Fund here in the financial negotiations. I am very pleased about that, because it must create growth and opportunities. That's what they're gonna do. There was one thing they didn't address, and that was competence. We now close seats on the IT University, where you get some of the skills we need most of. That is the consequence of the agreement because a responsible institution has to cut back. I have not heard anyone who can explain to me how it makes sense that the IT University, from which we are screaming at labour, should close places. Can the PM do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135639	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135640	We need to discuss this on a proper basis, because it is not true that a political decision has been taken that the IT Unit should put down seats. I don't know that decision. I don't think that's correct. Sofie Carsten Nielsen But that's what's happening. ) However, it was just said before that a political decision has been taken to settle seats. If there has not been a political decision on this, it is probably more reasonable to repeat the agreement reached, namely that there is a majority of the parties in the Folketing who want education to take place throughout the country. And then you have asked universities to come up with proposals on how they can help to ensure that balance. Well, it could be, for example. In this context, it is important to stress the importance of training for young people and to ensure that they are able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the new technologies and the opportunities offered by the new technologies. Denmark is so small a country. I think it would be really, really a pity if the consequences of the education policy pursued were to be that education cannot be taken throughout the country, because I know that this is one of the drains on local communities. So, what's been reported out, among other things. from the IT University, is not the final result. As I said, this must be discussed in the circle of agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135743	That's the end of the question. Thanks to Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Then we move on to Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135754	Thank you. The Finance Act we presented together yesterday puts the community first. With the Finance Act we are expanding our welfare, and we are very happy about that in the Enhedslisten. For us, one of the great victories is the new welfare right that more young people can now go to the dentist free of charge. So you can go to the dentist without having to get your wallet out of your pocket, and we think that is right, not least because it creates more equality. I actually think the Prime Minister agrees with that, because as I know the Prime Minister, it also means a great deal to the Prime Minister that we have a common welfare society, where we take care of each other, where we can train, use care for the elderly and our health care, without it having to depend on the size of your purse. In short, we give priority to the community in this country. That is why the expansion of the care of children and young people is also very important for us in the Enhedslisten, and with our glasses it is hopefully the first step on the way to making dental treatment a part of the welfare society, that is, free of charge for everyone. So I would really like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister not really think that we should extend our common welfare even more so that access to dental visits in the long term is fully financed through the tax? In other words, is it reasonable for a broken leg to be paid by the community, but not a broken tooth?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135934	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207135936	Thank you for the pleasure of the Finance Act, which I fully share, not only in relation to the content of the Finance Act that has been concluded, but also in relation to the focus that is now beginning to be on what a Finance Act would look like by a different political majority. For what has been revealed in recent weeks is that a number of blue parties, among others. The Conservative People's Party will take away the right that has been introduced too worn out under this government and change it for tax relief, in other words exactly as we have seen before. The consequences of the policy, which may come into being at some point, will certainly be considerable savings again in the field of education, children, the elderly and health. So good that we are again starting to get some of the more classic differences drawn up, for the welfare society some of the most important thing we have, but it is also fragile. Speaking of the situation in some parts of the health service today, one can also see how long it takes to rectify when there has been a civil policy for many years that has cut down on crucial areas of welfare. This is also true in the field of education, where, although we have stopped re-priority contributions and other things and have contributed more money, we can still see away well in some places where too much has been saved and where the content has become too poor. I am not going to start the next budget debate, which I hear is being warmed up to. I would like to say in principle that there should be no difference between having bad teeth, paradentosis or anything else, or having broken a knee. And there's no logical explanation why there's user charges on this element of our healthcare. Then I heard yesterday that, for example. The Liberal Alliance said that they like people brushing their teeth themselves, and they think that if we start to make sure that you can go to the dentist today, it is up to you to be 18 years old to be 19 years old, people do not take responsibility for their own lives. It is a very strange and special way to look at other people and well that there is a different political majority in Denmark right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140135	Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140137	Well, I can only fully agree that it is good that there is another political majority that prioritises welfare, which invests in education and in a wide range of areas, including our health. And that is what I would also like to ask the Prime Minister today, because I am very glad that, with the agreement we have just made, we have sent an emergency billion to the health service. It burns out there; the situation we are facing is acute. And it is both because of decades of cuts in an area where spending is increasing because there are more difficult patients, but also because of some structural problems and challenges in our healthcare system. I believe that the emergency billion and the need for it point out a little that there are deeper challenges. We cannot hold on to the employees right now, as is the case with the pay and working conditions that exist, and that is why we believe that there must be a dispute with the civil service reform, because it is Old Norse that we write 2021 and do not have proper equal pay, but also, of course, because it is necessary to keep the employees. Does the Prime Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140251	There is always the risk, when you get the same question many times, that you will give the same answer; I have just experienced that in consultation, and that will also apply here. I really, really appeal to, and advocate for, regardless of what we may have of attitudes about the importance of having a public health service and the recognition that there are some fundamental structural problems that we must try to solve • that we maintain the Danish labour market model, which is unique in its nature and in my view one of the single most important explanations that Danish employees, unlike many other employees, have such good pay and working conditions. It is • and now I say it a little directly • not thanks to the Folketing or changing political parties, but thanks to the labour market model. So I really want to appeal to you to hold on to it. Then we, the government, have chosen to set up a pay committee. I think it should be allowed to complete its work and then we can engage in political discussions on the basis of its work. On the question of whether we can hold on to employees or not. So, fortunately, there are very, very many employees in the Danish public health service who hold on to and hold on to it, even though in some places the amount of work is too much or even too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140406	Thank you, Prime Minister. That's the last question. Here you go, Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140409	So, first of all, no one in this room is advocating that we should now say this in a nice way. I must ignore the Danish labour market model; no one is advocating that in here. But we are appealing for money to come with the pay structure committee if it points out that there are structural challenges. Then I would also like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister agrees with his own Regional Council President, who says that it is urgent to get the answers from the Labour Structure Committee so that we have to bring it forward. Regional Council President Heino Knudsen recently said that there is a need for this because the answers are urgent out there, otherwise the foundations of our health care, which are of course made up of the employees, will disappear. Will the Prime Minister help to bring forward the pay structure committee that I can hear the government itself think is the answer to the problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140502	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140503	No, I haven't said that's the answer to the problems. I just note that the work has begun. If you can push it forward, I just don't know that I have to be honest with you. I think this is the right way to approach the work, but if it can be brought forward, one has to try to ask the Minister for Employment. In fact, I do not have the opportunity to answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140523	Thank you. The question is closed. Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen. Then we move on in the ranks of party leaders. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140532	Thank you. Yesterday, the government presented etc. in writing. - (FR) The Finance Act for next year, and I will be honest with you, is that unlike some others in here, I am sure I can control the enthusiasm for the outcome. As in any other red finance law, money is spent; there is less focus on earning it. The Finance Act makes it more expensive to be a Dane, and it retains people on transfer income. It does not have the shadow of initiatives in terms of how we create growth and labour that our companies urgently need. Our companies in this country are crying out for labour. 32,000 employees are missing in the private sector. We are missing out on a huge potential for growth and, therefore, welfare, because there are, however, some who need to finance welfare. I hope the Prime Minister agrees with me on that. Economists point out that a higher top tax limit is very effective. We want to take 100,000 ordinary employees out of paying top tax. We are not jealous; we have no pity that people earn money and that they get something out of making an extra effort. I understand the government doesn't want that. So what will the Prime Minister specifically do to increase the supply of labour, not in the public sector, but in the private sector, where growth and the economy of expenditure are being created?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140654	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140656	We already put forward proposals for this in September, and we look forward to the continuation of the negotiations. But I have to stress in all friendly silence that the Danish economy is better off than I remember that the Danish economy has been, and thus probably better off than Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen himself sat in government: i.e., the highest growth in 15 years, the lowest unemployment rate for 12 years and the highest employment ever • There have never been as many people working in Denmark as there are right now. We have a strong Danish economy where we have come through the crisis far better than anyone had dared to guess, hope or expect. Danish economy is well. Employment is record high. That is the starting point. We've got a good financial agreement. Is there more to be needed? Yeah. But there is also a need for us to have the courage to pursue the right economic policy in the financial law negotiations we are engaged in, whether you are a member of parliament or a government, and also to put our feet right, in other words to slow down activity a little bit, given that we are in the place where we stand. And there I understand that a lot of bourgeois parties disagree with the fact that responsible economic policy must also be pursued. I am glad that there are other parties in the Folketing who dare take responsibility for it, among others. by changing the artisan allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140831	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140833	I stand here with our plan for the Finance Act for next year, a Finance Act that will increase employment by 19,400 people in 2024 and make Denmark 57,9 billion. kr. richer towards 2030. Nevertheless, I can see that the Prime Minister's party soldiers are out on social media criticising us for wanting to roll back the Arne pension, which of course pulls people out of the labour market. It has nothing to do with wear and tear; it has been completely taken out of it. Can the Prime Minister not tell us what sort of handles she will turn on to provide the necessary manpower for private companies in the coming years? Well, the government finds approx. 10,000 people in the run-up to reform. 30,000 have applied and 22,000 have received Arne's pension so far. So what you're doing is too little. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to adjust the government's proposal so that we have to negotiate what is being taken out of the labour market at all times? I think it must be very sad for companies to listen to this debate; that they have just heard a Prime Minister say that we should just be happy about it as it is. For us, we can lose a lot of welfare all the time because we do not want to ensure that there is more labour. I find that deeply unhappy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140948	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207140949	If we are to quote the Prime Minister, we must at least do it correctly. And the quote that has just been given here was neither correct nor true. We have put forward a reform proposal to bring more people into work. I hope Conservatives will take responsibility for finding a broad agreement on this. And it's a good thing we get this out. It is actually quite crazy to stand and tell people who have worked unskilled in the toughest jobs, in the toughest jobs, for more than 40 years, that they are not worn out; that you can sit here with all due respect at the distance of the people, their lives, their working lives, with more than 40 years of effort for Danish society, and this is how you assess: you are not worn out. This is evidently known in the Conservative People's Party. Fortunately, there is another political majority here who says to the people who have built up our society, worked hard, got into the labour market at the earliest, had the most difficult years of work and often the hardest, hardest jobs, that yes, they must also have the right to a dignified withdrawal. But we now know that, with a change of government after the next elections, that right lapses as quickly as we had it introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141101	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141103	But what the Prime Minister says is wrong. You could look at what the rest of us have proposed and done in the past, where you have made sure that it was an individual assessment of whether you could withdraw earlier. We have a retirement age in Denmark, and if you are too worn out to be on the labour market until you reach the retirement age that we have, then of course you have to be able to retire. But to introduce a general right that is not about wearing down, but just about having been enough years on the labour market, even part-time.I think it's a strange way to have an approach to the Danish economy saying that because you have a wish that now you have to please a certain group of people on the labour market, you will no longer take account of Denmark and the Danish economy. I think that Arnepensionen is wrong and that what should be is an individual assessment if you want to go before retirement age. Because if you're worn out, you have to be able to retire. But I understand that the Prime Minister obviously does not believe that there is a need for more labour in Denmark. We know that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141207	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141209	The PM didn't say that. The Prime Minister made it very clear: proposals have been put forward; we look forward to further negotiations; we hope that others will also take responsibility. But other people's money was that what was said? Was it said to the unskilled in Denmark and to the skilled workers in Denmark with more than 40 years' seniority in the labour market that it is for other people's money that they should have a worthy withdrawal? No, it's for their own It's the people who day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year, decade after decade have cared for their work and paid their taxes. And what we are saying is that the dignity that applies to the most privileged in this society and has always applied to them must also apply to the unskilled. That is the difference in Danish politics. It is the real dignity of those who have the hardest lives. There it came out (Søren Pape Poulsen Clean socialism!).
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141256	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. Then we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141319	Thank you. In 2018, the Prime Minister presented the Social Democratic Foreign Policy Programme ^ an overall plan, it was called. It should be the end of seeking and accessing spontaneous asylum in Denmark. Foreigners who abuse their stay in Denmark to commit crime have nothing to do in Danish society, they must be deported. That's how they wrote it. And all immigrants had to work 37 hours a week to obtain rights to cash benefits and integration benefits. This was promised to the Danes. Taken at the word, the Prime Minister's promises to the Danes were in fulfillment of the three indispensable demands of the New Citizen. Therefore, I and my party chose to be accommodating in order to repair the damage caused by decades of failed immigration policy to our society, to settle the hundreds of more or less useless patch solutions that changing governments have oversold to the Danes as a strict immigration policy, and to resolve the problems from scratch. A stop to spontaneous asylum, the expulsion of criminal foreigners consistently and after the first sentence and a requirement for foreigners staying in Denmark to support themselves. But the Danes were disappointed. There has been no new asylum system. The minister promises and promises that now criminal immigrants are shooting at the streets... four shootings in a week. Even foreign rapists are not shown consistently. And the government's proposal that foreigners should work 37 hours a week will only increase employment by 250 people by 2025. Well, 250 people, that's a total joke. Why is it that the government and the Prime Minister continue to present patch solutions to the immigration policy rather than solving the problems from scratch, as originally promised?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141525	I have to say that there is quite a lot of noise in the Chamber, and when you speak on the platform, it is very clear. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141534	I think it is important to say that there is a continuing desire to move the spontaneous asylum application to a reception centre and work on it. We have not said to the Danes at any time, nor will I today, that it is easy and that it is something that can be done overnight. Now we have got the legislation in place and, by the way, thank you for your support for it and we are working unceasingly on it, even though it is a difficult task we have set ourselves to solve. Around the 37 hours, I just have to say that my political intuition, if you like, says that figure is going to be higher. That is what the Ministry of Finance can vouch for, so to speak, professionally. But if there is a general demand for 37 hours of employment to be provided in order to receive a benefit in which a higher wage could be maintained for the same effort, if a job were to be obtained, then I have no doubt that more people would move to normal employment, as I also believe that a number of citizens with a non-western background who are currently receiving a passive transfer income could easily do. We have negotiated about 37 hours and we have not yet been able to obtain a majority in favour of the idea, but we have to continue the political negotiations, because the position of the government is clear: if you come here, you have to support yourself, and if you cannot, you have to deliver in return for a 37-hour duty.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141657	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141659	Earlier today, the Prime Minister said that legal policy and foreign policy are linked, and that is quite right. There is a huge correlation between the people who are behind these shootings in the streets, and then immigration, migration, from Muslim countries. The government has still not solved that and still has no answer to fair enough, but let me then ask a question that might point a little more forward because, as I said, these things are connected. The government has been talking about this new asylum system, which does not seem to be a solution for the moment; as the Prime Minister says, it seems to be difficult. When, at some point, the government recognizes that this is not going to be a solution, that there is no possibility of changing asylum policy as the government wishes, is the Prime Minister and the government willing to introduce a new asylum system, where we, based on the United Nations quota system, say: You have the right to seek asylum in Denmark as a quota refugee, but we cannot accept that people travel through several safe countries and come and seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark? This can be introduced without it being contrary to the refugee convention. Is the government willing to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141806	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141807	First of all, I would like to stress once again that neither I nor the Social Democrats nor the government have ever put the Danes in view of the fact that over a night, a week or a month a new asylum system will be possible. We have always said that this is a difficult task. I have no doubt that it would be the right thing to do. Now we again have pressure on Europe's external borders, which I think is why it is wise to create an entirely new asylum system, as proposed by us, instead of continuing with the existing one. In relation to whether we can say from one day to the next that we will no longer be able to apply for asylum in Denmark, I believe that our model is better. I would also like to stress that, in addition to the things that are mentioned here, the government is working in a number of other areas. I myself am one of the most active in the European Council in terms of securing Europe's external borders and also in terms of the need for us in the European Union to support the front states that are in being able to secure the external border. So we are working on both a number of different levels and areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141914	Mrs Pernille Vermund, on behalf of the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207141916	However, it is interesting to maintain that it is better to introduce an asylum system which does not seem to be feasible than it is to do the right thing and what is necessary and to say: we should not accept that people who have travelled through several safe countries can come up here and seek spontaneous asylum; we need to change the asylum system so that it is based solely on a quota refugee system. Let it go. Finally, let me ask you about the 250 extra jobs that, according to the government's own figures, will be the result of the government's duty to work for immigrants on public support. In 2019 there were some 300,000 non-western immigrants in Denmark at working age. 37 per cent. 37 per cent of them. of them were on public breadwinners. This is equivalent to 111,600 people. 250, which is the number going to work, according to the government's own figures, out of 111,600 is 0.2%; that is to say 0.2%. of the publicly-supported immigrants will get to work. How can this be a success criterion?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142017	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142018	I believe that the figure will be considerably higher (Pernille Vermund It is the government's own figures). I am not challenging the way in which the Ministry of Finance calculates, but I am of the opinion that the figure will be higher if we get this introduced, and I hope that a majority in the Folketing will support the government in introducing a 37-hour duty. In addition, I think it is important to emphasise that by 2020 the number of asylum seekers was the lowest figure (Pernille Vermund Corona) which has been registered in the current way, that is, since 1998. This is certainly also due to corona, but if we look at the figure for this year, we can see that only a little more than in 2020 was registered on 22 November. So in other words, we are maintaining a relatively low influx to Denmark, and this is extremely important if we are to achieve integration at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142114	The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142123	Thank you. I would like to talk about our health services, which are under pressure, and I would also like to talk about the poor well-being that is among too many employees of our health services. Now I have seen that the government has brought this Coronavinter package with an extra billion for the regions, which among other things. can be used on • what should you say • such a temporary salary supplement for some of the health care workers. It's really a Band-Aid on the wound or such a consolation piece, you could also call it. But that is not something that solves some of the basic problems or some of the structural problems. I am not thinking here of the claim that there have been many savings in health care in recent years, on the contrary. Looking at developments since 2000, expenditure on health care has increased by over 50 billion. kr., the increase has been over 40%. in real terms, and health care is the area that has been allocated the most sovereign money in the last 20 years, also much more than the demographic features justify. So there is good money and resources in health care, but still too many nurses experience that they do not have enough time for patients. It's a paradox. We've never had so few births a year. midwife as we now have, yet they are stressed, and we have never had as many nurses as we have today, yet they are also stressed. After all, we cannot be satisfied with that politically, nor can the taxpayers be satisfied to pay around 200 billion. kr. Every year to health care, and then there are such poor working conditions. I have some different suggestions for what we can do politically, which I will turn with the Prime Minister. After all, the goal must be a less stressful everyday life and more time with patients, and that is where I think the most obvious thing is to look at bureaucracy. In 2015, the Danish Nursing Council established that the nurses spend more than 12 million overall over a whole year. hours on bureaucracy alone, and their assessment was then that 4 million. hours a year were spent on unnecessary documentation and bureaucracy • 4 million. hours each year that could be released on time with patients and mean a less stressful everyday life. This is equivalent to 2,000 full-time jobs. My question is actually quite simple: what really stands in the way of the government, in cooperation with the Danish Nursing Council, identifying the unnecessary bureaucracy and suspending or removing it altogether? What is it actually doing that has not yet been done in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142340	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142342	Well, I agree with the analysis and believe that it is also true in the other major welfare areas. We have been driven by different ways, but not least by the Folketing and changing governments, overbureaucratising our welfare society to an extent that means that there is too little time for what is the essential task. I believe that this should be part of the debate we are going to have on the health care of the future. So I am not going to withdraw and would also like to take the lead in the discussion. I have, of course, done so in a number of areas where opposition is so often encountered, because different groups believe that exactly the rules that apply to them or to a given area are very important to maintain. But I and the government will be prepared to remove most of it as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142434	Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142437	Yeah, I've heard that before, you might say. I was very pleased when the Prime Minister spoke in his opening speech in 2019 about the need for less bureaucracy. I was actually quite pleased when the Prime Minister repeated it in his opening speech in 2020, i.e. that there was a need for less bureaucracy. I thought, yes, but then let's do something about it. And I was similarly pleased, but a little puzzled, when the Prime Minister spoke in his opening speech two months ago about the need for less bureaucracy. But I cannot understand why nothing has been done in relation to the bureaucracy of health care, especially when we talk about up to 4 million hours each year. I mean, it's crazy. I think it is about a year since I actually proposed the Prime Minister a little the same in Question Time, namely to identify the bureaucracy and suspend it. And that wasn't a crazy suggestion. What exactly is the reason why this has been postponed? Why don't you do something about it? And is this a guarantee from the Prime Minister that during this parliamentary term we will look at this area and hopefully also more effectively than previous governments, including the blue ones?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142531	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142532	Yes, I mean it still, and I really mean it honestly. I also sincerely believe what I have said before, namely that I think it will be harder than that, because there are so many interests at stake that I really think shadows for what is central. I myself experienced it when I raised the question whether it is really important to measure the bmi of the elderly around the country's care centres and nursing homes, because I would rather spend time playing cards or going out and taking out fresh air. Then there arose a major professional discussion about how important it is to measure the bmi of the elderly. I haven't been convinced yet, and I'm quite sure that the day that I get old myself, I'd rather play yatzy than I would have measured my bmi. So there are many interests at stake in this discussion. My position is unchanged. I must also be honest and say that the management of corona and the persistent and critical situation, among other things. In the health care sector, some of the decisions that should have been taken in this area have been followed, but fortunately we still have time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142628	Alex Vanopslagh, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142629	I can't wait to follow up on that. I was just about to say that I am not worried about the PM's bmi and the like, and I hope there will be no bureaucracy in that area later on when that day comes. I would like to reverse my last proposal, and it is actually in relation to attracting more foreign nurses, because right now there are no available Danish nurses, so there is no one we can hire. And if we're gonna have more hands, they're gonna have to come from abroad. Something I would like to commend to the government for the fact that it is on radical initiative that such urgent treatment has been introduced for the many, over a thousand doctors who are waiting to be allowed to work in Denmark and who have applied for it. Could you not do a similar emergency treatment for foreign nurses, look up positions internationally and perhaps even consider that nurses who want to go to Denmark and help the Danish nurses can temporarily go to the research tax scheme so that they pay only 27 per cent. in taxes, so we can attract more people to a pressured health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142713	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142714	I find it so basically difficult to understand the zeal for someone not to pay taxes. I fully agree that the Liberal Alliance is fundamentally opposed to our social model, and I heard it yesterday when it was said that it is pleased that young people are brushing their teeth, and you do not think they will do so to the same extent if we ensure that they are allowed to go to the dentist even after the age of 18. We are so far apart from each other in the way of viewing both people and society that we often, I think, have little difficulty in understanding each other. At any rate, I find it difficult to understand the desire that people working in Denmark should not also pay taxes and contribute, because it will often be the case that foreign workers who come here also use our welfare societies. It can, for example, be done. be children who are going to day care or children who are going to school. You may need to go to a doctor or be hospitalized, even if you are a nurse and come from outside. It is part of the agreement that has been made that such a high-speed regime has been set up in relation to foreign doctors. Whether this will also be relevant in relation to other professional groups, I do not dare to comment on it at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142819	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Then we move on, and welcome to Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142830	Thank you for the floor, President. A democracy is only functioning if those living in democracy have influence. In Denmark there are currently 440,000 people, i.e. 9%. of the adult population of Denmark, who do not have a Danish passport, and therefore cannot participate in a parliamentary election. They can't run and they can't vote. For the vast majority of these people they have lived in Denmark for 4 years, but most have lived here for many, many years. Many have lived here all their lives, they pay taxes here, their children live here. In other words, we have a huge, huge group of people who, on the one hand, we would like to have to participate actively, but, on the other hand, have excluded from participating in democracy. So my question to the Prime Minister is: what will the Prime Minister do to put an end to this massive democratic inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142935	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207142936	No, I think it is important to say that no one is excluded from participating in our democracy; this can be done in a great many different ways, including, of course, support for fundamental democratic values, such as the right of sexual minorities to be sexual minorities or the right of girls to decide for themselves who they are to marry, or others, I think that fundamental rights that we others have fought for in our society. So you can participate in all that and you can also participate in all kinds of other democratic activities, including association life etc. What is specifically being asked about is the question of citizenship, and there I am of the fundamental conviction that there must be very, very strict and tough demands, because citizenship is something very, very special, which also has the element in it, that it is something that should be earned, so to speak, because it gives a completely different access to Danish society, including staying here, for example, if you commit crime. There are rules different if you don't have citizenship. So I strongly support the fact that there are tough requirements in terms of citizenship, and if it is people who have lived here for very, very many years, then you will also be able to apply for citizenship if you meet the other requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143055	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143057	But is the Prime Minister aware that 90,000 of the 440,000 are adults born and raised in Denmark? And we could recently read that one in ten children born in Denmark is born without a Danish citizenship, that is, born without equal rights, born without equal opportunities. They were born in the same hospital as many others, and many of them must have extended their residence permit every two years. That is what I have been calling democratic apartheid. Well, you're born in a country, you're in a class, but you don't have the same rights as the others in the class, you don't have the same options. Doesn't the PM think that's a problem? For this group is getting bigger and bigger, and now I said 440,000, but it's one in ten children born without citizenship, and this group is getting bigger and bigger, and at some point we end up with a huge group in Denmark who lives here, lives here and pays taxes here, but cannot participate in democracy. Does the Prime Minister not think that it is a serious problem that one in ten children born in Denmark are not born with equal opportunities, equal rights and are not born with Danish citizenship, and what will the Prime Minister do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143205	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143207	But it is, for example, a family in which parents do not have citizenship and where parents can have their place of residence withdrawn for one or the other or the third reason, but then a child is born, which means that, as a society, we cannot make the decisions that a majority believes we should be able to make, for example by having a temporary presence in the area of refugees or by being able to demonstrate in connection with serious crime. And that is why I do not think we should change the rules that apply to Danish citizenship or citizenship. In fact, we have sharpened them, we have tightened them further under this government, and I would warn against an alien policy which means that, as a refugee, you automatically become an immigrant and automatically become a Danish citizen. In fact, I do not think that Danish society can bear if it is the foreign policy that is being pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143300	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143302	So we're talking about people like me who were born and raised here in Denmark. Now I have one last question, and I would like to ask that in a different context. Congratulations on the new Finance Act. Unfortunately, the Greens were unable to join us, we were kicked out of the government because we were unable to meet our demand for an anti-racist action plan, that is, a plan of action to ensure that discrimination in the labour market was eliminated and ethnic profiling in the police and all the places where discrimination is now being practised in our society, and at the last round of questions I asked the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister was an anti-racist, that is to say, one who is actively acting to combat racism, and of course the Prime Minister replied yes to that. How, then, does this relate to the conclusion of a financial agreement whereby an anti-racist action plan is not to be drawn up that was demanded by the Free Greens? How is it that the government's leader is an anti-racist, that you make a financial law that does not want to make an anti-racist action plan, that is to say, concrete measures to combat racism?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143403	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143405	I must be honest and say that I am not actually aware that this discussion has taken place under the Financial Law negotiations, so I think I must refer to the Minister for Finance. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143414	The questions from Mr. Sikandar Siddique. The next party is the alternative of Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143431	Thank you, President. My first question concerns a matter of animal welfare, which concerns us very much in the alternative and which I want to hear the Prime Minister's views on. It is a matter that comes from agriculture and is about chickens and lays. It is about whether we have gone too far in our industrial production of eggs. Together with the government party, the alternative has studied modern egg production, and new research from the University of Copenhagen shows that chickens in industry have been bred in a way that makes their bodies unable to stand up to what they are exposed to. In the past, a hen lived much longer than it does today. It laid a few eggs a month, maybe 20 a year. Today, laying hens have been bred to lay 300 eggs a year. Worse still, they break bones in the body when laying the eggs because the hens have become too small and fragile and the eggs have become too large. It's appalling that 80%. of all hens have tried to break their sternums when they lay the eggs that we buy at the grocery store and which we eat in the morning. Unfortunately, this is across all forms of production: caged hens, scrapers and even the organic hens. I imagine the Prime Minister might know this problem. Otherwise, the PM will do it now. I am sure, however, that the Prime Minister knows about the animal welfare law, which says that animals must be protected from pain and suffering. So what does the Prime Minister think we should do with a production that apparently cannot live up to the purpose of the law for animals to be protected from pain and suffering?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143614	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143617	I think, first of all, that these are very, very violent figures and that I am incredibly concerned about animal welfare. I am not familiar with these figures; I remember seeing a headline that may have indicated something of the same as what is being said here. So I do not have the opportunity to reply to the specific figures. But I would suggest that they be taken up with the Minister for Food immediately. Because if it is true that these figures are true, then we should have a discussion of it in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143653	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143655	I'm really glad to hear that. And I can give you a little more information: The problem that chickens break bones in production came for the first time into the spotlight in Denmark in 2016. However, nothing significant has happened to the hens in that case since 2016. The egg industry itself believes that it will take up to 20 years to solve the problem by breeding new and more robust hen breeds. When, then, does the Prime Minister think with the information I bring here that we politicians must step in and ensure that the hens are spared this painful fate that they have on the Danish farms?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143737	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143739	I may find it difficult to comment on how short or how long it takes to put some nature back in order. I am simply not in a position to assess this. Nor do I have any knowledge of whether that time perspective reflects the reality of the world. So I think I will have to repeat what I said before, namely that I think it should be taken up with the minister responsible. And then I think it requires a discussion, because of course animals that are part of production in Denmark must have proper conditions. That should really be self-evident.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143811	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143813	Thank you. It is a response that we welcome and we look forward to such a discussion. Our last question comes, as usual, from one of our members, Maria Mærsk, and she says: the situation in hospitals is serious as a result of staff flight following the course of the nursing conflict. Bed sections have to close because of staff shortages, and that is not new, because as far back as 2007 there were about 1,500 hands missing in the hospitals in the capital. Billions do not solve the problem, said the head of staff in the Capital Region. And it was warned that this would cause major problems in 10-15 years' time, and here we are now. What does the Prime Minister think should be done to ensure in future a high quality health service with equal access for all citizens and where we maintain and attract staff? Because right now, the real problem is that there are no hands because many people think that working in the health services at the moment is really unbearable.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143907	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207143909	First of all, we have just made a good financial agreement where there is a winter package to help our health services, and this applies to patients and employees alike, during a winter that can go and get tough because of other conditions too, including covid-19. Secondly, some more structural discussions await and one of them was taken up earlier. I hope that this is a discussion that we can have with all the parties of the Folketing. We are only those we are in our society, and we already have a lot of foreign labour. But it is in virtually every sector that we either lack or are going to lack labour, and that is why we need to free up some time from what we can do without, to what we cannot do without, and what we cannot do without, is patient contact, it is direct nursing, it is the relationship between child and adult at school, between sosu and the elderly at the nursing home. Therefore, a large part of the solution in my optics to all the recruitment problems, health and safety problems that exist, the lack of results for citizens, is that we get a thorough debureaucratisation of the public sector. That is not the whole answer, but it is an important part of the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207144024	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, and thank the Prime Minister. There are no more questioners, and then the Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207144033	Before we go to the next item on the agenda, I have a number of comments to make. Today there is the following review: Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 51 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an annual quota ceiling of 0-20 derogations for the purchase of summer houses in Denmark where the obligation of residence is not fulfilled). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Pernille Skipper (EL) and Mai Villadsen (EL) have announced that they want to take the query no. F 1 to give children the right to more legal parents than two to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly back. The question has now been dropped. Members of the Folketing Marcus Knuth (KF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF) have informed me that they wish to withdraw the following motions for resolutions: Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the transfer of files concerning current applicants for Danish citizenship to the Committee on the Rights of Citizens. B 41). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed. From the Prime Minister, I have received letters stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 29 November 2021, it was decided that the responsibility for matters relating to the legalisation of the City of Guldborg was transferred from the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing to the Minister for the Environment, and that the competence of the Minister for Children and Education under the Law on Institutions for Vocational Training in relation to Vocational Constable Programmes in the Defence and Emergency Response Board is transferred from the Minister for Children and Education to the Minister for Defence. The notifications will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, in the Royal Resolution of 29 November 2021, the responsibility for dealing with cases relating to the legalisation of Guldborgsund Municipality under the Planning Act of 10 summer houses located Bøtølundvej 101-119, 4873 Walllesse, matr.no. 8ne and 8nf, Bothø City, Wallless, are transferred from the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing to the Minister for the Environment, since the ability of the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing to deal with such matters may be called into question. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 29 November 2021 stipulates that the competence of the Minister for Children and Education under the Law on Institutions for Vocational Training in relation to Vocational Constable Training in the Defence and Emergency Management Board, including the competence to define the framework for the training under § 1 (1). 4, transferred from the Minister for Children and Education to the Minister for Defence per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen
ParlaMint-DK_20211207144219	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207144240	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, joined by a majority (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and ALT)? They are adopted. Then I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207144255	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207144312	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB) on Amendment No 1. Amendment No 2 was adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB and FG) on Amendment No 2 on the proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, and to Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and to Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, and to Regulation (EEC) No They are adopted. Then I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207144337	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207144408	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207144434	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Bjarne Laustsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207144456	Thank you very much, Madam President. Like last winter, we are faced with a situation where the infection is rising again and where covid-19 again puts restrictions on our movements, even when it comes to doing our job. The infection is particularly high among the smallest in society, that is to say the children, and therefore many working parents are additionally challenged when they are unable to deliver their children to the institutions either because of infection or suspicion of infection. Of course, many are concerned that they are limited in their ability to do their job; anxieties linked to a fear of losing one's job or losing one's income. This was also one of the reasons for this tripartite agreement, which the government concluded with the social partners on 23 November 2021; an agreement to help companies, employees, self-employed people and families of children safely through the winter. The draft law we are going to deal with now is intended precisely to give effect to the tripartite agreement. With the agreement, the government and the social partners agreed to reinstate some of the measures that have benefited many people in the past. This applies, first and foremost, to the extension of entitlement to sickness benefit and reimbursement if an employee has been found to have been infected with corona or has been in close contact with a coronasmitten. It is proposed that the employer will be able to receive reimbursement from the first day of absence and not only after the 30 days currently in force. Selfemployed persons are also covered by the extended sickness benefit scheme, which will also be able to receive sickness benefit from the first day of sickness in the case of coronasmite. In addition, the government has tabled an amendment to the effect that people who follow the health authorities' recommendations regarding the new variant should, of course, also be included in the scheme. In addition, it is also suggested that parents sent home children are entitled to maternity benefit in the event that the child cannot attend school or in day care because of the coronasmitten. So to sum up briefly: we are increasing access to maternity benefit and sickness benefit for employees and self-employed persons who, because of corona, are unable to care for their income-giving work. Hopefully this will help to strengthen the economic security of both employees, companies and self-employed people, and hopefully it will also help to increase the incentive to stay at home in case of infection or suspicion of infection. Social democracy can, of course, support this proposal. Of course, this will also cost some money, which runs back to the day of the agreement, 23 November 2021, and until 28 February next year. In 2021 it is estimated that it is with considerable uncertainty that it will cost approx. 445 million kr. and approx. 658 million kr. in 2022 after tax and backflow.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207144744	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207144754	Thank you. Corona is once again above us in our society, and we must do everything we can to prevent parts of business from closing down again. That is why I am very pleased that the social partners, together with the government, have found temporary solutions that can help both to keep our industry going and to ensure that employees also have proper conditions. After all, the former Socialist rapporteur has explained the proposal very well, and it is important for the Left that we can maintain growth and prosperity, even during an epidemic. The infection is now high, but fortunately we are in a different situation than we did a year ago, and a very large proportion of the Danes have also been vaccinated. Now we have a new corona variant that is growing, and that is why we are also dealing with this bill today. The clear message from the Left to the employer out there today is that we are reintroducing the right to reimbursement again, and for parents who are in a situation where they must stay at home and look after children in connection with cases of infection, there must also be clarity about their situation. Thus, the right to benefit is reinstated in accordance with the rules of the maternity law for you as well. In other words, we give confidence to people who are in a difficult situation because of the corona that on the other side of Christmas there is also a hand held under them. The Left, of course, supports this, and on that basis the Left can support the bill. Then perhaps there is one but, but we need to clarify this during the legislative process: if a situation arises which has not been established that one has been infected with corona but has symptoms of corona, then it is in fact the case that the recommendations of the health authorities on isolation should be followed. However, as we read, no reimbursement will be paid to the employer in the situation in which the employer must follow the recommendation that the employee isolate himself on the basis of the symptoms experienced by the employee. We need to clarify that. It is the case today that if you are diagnosed with corona, there is no doubt. So you're supposed to stay home, and then there's a refund. However, in a situation where it is about symptoms of corona, we are of the opinion that we should also be covered by the rules we are talking about here about precisely reimbursement from day one. We will have that clarified during the committee procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207145107	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207145117	Thank you. This bill helps both employers and employees who are in trouble because they are suffering from covid-19 disease, and parents who have children who are repatriated because of covid-19. In the Danish People's Party we think it is a good thing to reinstate that scheme so that employers can get reimbursement. It is usually the case today that employers pay the first 30 sick days before they can receive reimbursement. That's not gonna happen here. There employers can get reimbursement from day one, where you are sent home, and we actually think that is a good thing. Parents who have children who have been infected can also receive sickness benefit without having to use the child care days, children's sick days, which are in the system. From day one they can get sick leave. Some of what we may not be able to figure out was probably part of what Mr. Hans Andersen mentioned it. In fact, the bill says: no full or partial reimbursement of the medical course will be possible if the employee is not found infected by a positive covid-19 test, even if the person concerned, for example, is not found to be infected by a positive covid-19 test. have been in solitary confinement due to symptoms. This also applies in the case of close contact vaccinated or previously infected within the last 12 months. It may well be that we need to get it a little more detailed and described a little more clearly before we finally agree to the draft law, but we will take that in committee. But in general we in the Danish People's Party can support the proposal, as it benefits both employers and parents who have problems with children who are sent home. We just have to note that right now a great many schoolchildren are being sent home because they are infected and there are many parents who are in a situation where they do not know how to get the children cared for. So this is a bill that we in the Danish People's Party can support, but we would just like to clarify the question of reimbursement in the event that they are sent to isolation, because there is also a demand from the health authorities that if you have been in close contact, you should be in isolation. But then we see here today that the City of Viborg says that you should not go into isolation, even if you are in close contact, as the Ministry of Health has said otherwise. So there is probably something we need to examine in more detail in this area, but as a whole we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207145401	Thank you to the rapporteur. I can see that there is a request for a brief comment, and I should just like to make sure that is correct. Mrs. Birgitte Wind? No, it's been pressed by mistake. Bent Bøgsted She just messed with the rhythm box). It's okay. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207145422	We must bear the burden of corona together, and a string of tripartite agreements helps to pull us through the crisis as a society that is linked. The disease happens randomly and in completely unpredictable waves, and corona is a precious guest in society. It costs money for both employees and employers, but it has to be distributed in a fair way, and SF supports this bill, which reintroduces reimbursement of daily allowances from the first day.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207145508	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207145519	Thank you very much. Both employers, employees and parents of returned children can find themselves in a really difficult situation at coronasmite, and especially now that we have had this general growth in the coronasmite, but also with the introduction of the new variant. Therefore, it makes very good sense to re-introduce some of the measures that we know from the past, which we know to work, and which my colleagues have reviewed here from the platform. We in the Radical Left support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207145554	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207145607	Thank you very much. It's known material we're dealing with here. We know it from L 135 and L 213 from the 2019-20 parliamentary year. It's already interesting, so it's been so long, but it is. And the two provisions are the one that helps employers and the one that helps those who must stay at home without being sick have merged into one bill, and I shall say no evil about that. As far as employees are concerned, in relation to isolation in accordance with the recommendations of the health authorities, I expect, like what was raised by the Left and the Danish People's Party, to be included both if you have symptoms without having been found infected with covid-19, but also in cases where you are near contact with a close contact. Because these are the recommendations that are now in relation to the new variant. So that must be taken into account, that is to say, even if it is not explicit, it must also be included. Then, like the first time we have carried out such actions here, I would like to ask whether there will be an exemption from the 22-week rule in the law on sickness benefits. The reason I ask that is, of course, that if you are now, for example. If you have three children who become ill in addition to each other, you may very easily have to stay at home in accordance with the provisions of the sickness insurance legislation, and you may have spent 22 weeks quickly before you get a look at it. I just think it is important to be aware of whether there is such a derogation rule. Finally, I would ask that the Ministry pay close attention to the situation, if we have to see in January that there can be an extension of the law, because we have not got beyond the situation of the infection, that we will then find out in relatively good time. We will all be pleased if we can be at the forefront of such a situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207145808	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207145815	It is our duty as politicians to ensure that the Danes get through this corona wave as well as possible. No one should be in a situation where one is infected and, at the same time, fear for one's financial situation if one is unable to meet at work under the guidelines set out by the Danish Health Authority in this new incipient wave. We believe that it is appropriate for the employer to be entitled to reimbursement under the sickness insurance legislation after the first day of absence, and it is also appropriate that parents who are at home to care for their coronasick children should be entitled to benefit under the legislation on maternity leave. However, we have one concern: it has also been raised by the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten, namely that the bill does not adequately take into account the reinforced new guidelines for the detection of infection, where also vaccinated and previously infected persons must go into isolation themselves. This is an issue that we want to take forward in the committee's examination of this bill. It should be safe to go to work, both for self-employed and for employees, and therefore it is good that we have this law continued. With the above comments, the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207145936	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207145946	Thank you. There are a number of issues that we would like to have clarified in relation to this bill before we simply blindly vote in favour of it. First of all, as several people have said here, new guidelines have been put forward by the Danish Health Service, which is why I simply cannot believe that the financial estimate, which is also said to be so uncertain, is fair in terms of what this costs. There's gotta be a way to get closer from the Ministry. We will ask for a new financial inventory of what you expect it to cost, because with the guidelines that are now from the Danish Health Service, it is quite different figures and some very other people that can be included in this because close contacts are being sent to close contacts now. It means an incredible amount to people in schools, but also to the parents who are being sent home to the children, where there are far more who are now being sent home because of this new variant that we see. So there are simply some things which, with the economic figures, simply cannot be right because I know that they are made on calculations from the old recommendations. So I think that, in order to get a fair financial picture of this before we adopt it, we need to have the new calculations. On this occasion, it might also be nice to have such an inventory if this is to be financed by the so-called war fund, where the slump it is actually speaking is about to be. So how much money has been spent on this and on vaccines and on prevention and testing and all it would be nice to get such an inventory now that we are in the process, to see what is left of funds if that is where you want to take the money. So there are a lot of outstanding issues before we can definitely support this. We agree with the basic ideas behind the proposal, but perhaps you should also take a call with SSI to ensure that the costs are not excessive, because I know that SSI and the Danish Health Service are considering changing these recommendations back again so that it does not become close contacts with close contacts. The deadline and the split second for it is when you think you can no longer avoid that the OMicron variant becomes the governing force for the infection in society. And that is quite important for how much the bill will be, which will then have to be paid. I think it is important that we get a little closer to that before we vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207150201	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207150211	Thank you. We are voting in favour of the bill, and we are doing so because in Denmark we have a desire to limit the spread of corona, and these two measures, which are contained in the bill, are suitable for that. Firstly, we are moving away from the normal standard of sick leave, namely that the employer has to pay for the first 30 days, so that the employer should not do so in the event of suspicion of corona. It is a good thing, because we do not really want the normal mechanisms, that is to say that you do not just fall ill at the first small cough, to continue under corona; there we want people to stay at home if there is only the slightest suspicion of corona disease. The second is this with the parents, because when the children are home, we also want parents to stay at home instead of going to work, because it may be that they have also been infected. So I see these two proposals as part of reducing the spread of corona in Danish society, and we would like to vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207150318	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, and I do not see any more rapporteurs present in the speech who have asked for the floor. I can therefore give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207150332	Thank you, and thank you to the rapporteurs for examining the draft law today. We are in a situation where, unfortunately, the infection is again increasing and where companies are facing challenges with employees who are being sent home as a result of covid-19. It may be because they themselves are infected or have been in contact with a person who is infected. We also see more infected children, and this presents challenges for the country's many families with children. This applies, of course, to parents of children who have been found infected with covid-19, but also to children who have been repatriated on the recommendation of the health authorities because of specific cases of infection at their school, in their class or in their day-care institution. We very much understand that it can be difficult for some parents to stay home from work and that it can be worrying for them to lose their jobs and their income. I am therefore very pleased that the government, together with the social partners on 23 November, concluded an agreement to help companies, employees, self-employed people and families with children more safely during the winter. With the agreement, we agreed, for a temporary period, to implement earlier schemes in the field of employment in slightly adjusted forms. The bill we are discussing today must lead to the tripartite agreement. Firstly, in the case of corona, employers will receive an extension of sickness benefit in the draft law. This is true if the employee is documented infected with corona, but also for employees who, on the recommendation of the authorities, have to go into self isolation because they are considered to be close contact with an infected person. This means that employers for the group of employees can receive sickness benefit reimbursement from the first day of absence and not after an employer's period of 30 days as it normally is. The selfemployed are also covered so that they will be able to receive sickness benefit from the municipality from the first day of illness, and not after 14 days, if they are documented infected with corona, or if the health authorities' recommendation is that they should go into self isolation because they are considered to be close contact with an infected person. Since I tabled the proposal on 2 December, the situation with the OMICRON variant has also developed and I have therefore tabled an amendment yesterday to make it clear that people who follow recommendations for the new variant are also covered by the scheme. This is a clarification, so it is quite clear that close contacts with close contacts in case of infection with OMICRON are also covered if they are covered by the recommendations of the health authorities to go into self-isolation. Secondly, parents with children who have been repatriated under 14 years of age with the bill will be entitled to maternity benefit if they have to stay home to care for their child. This applies to parents of children infected with corona and children who, as a result of one or more specific cases of infection, have been sent home from institution, day care or school. This must, of course, be done on the basis of recommendations from the health authorities. The scheme therefore covers both parents who are employees and parents who are self-employed. It is common to them that homework should not be possible, and they must also comply with the conditions laid down in the law on maternity leave for entitlement to benefit, inter alia. the employment requirement. Unlike during the first and second waves, it is not necessary for parents to have used care days or the child's sick days without being able to receive maternity benefit under the scheme. The rules are proposed to apply retroactively from the date on which we concluded the agreement on 23 November 2021 and up to and including 28 February 2022. I very much hope that with this proposal we can help keep society open over the winter, reduce pressure on health care and ensure financial security for the companies, employees and families with children who are covered by it. And I would like to thank you for today's debate and, of course, look forward to the committee's further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207150706	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There is no desire for short labelling for the Minister of Employment, and as no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207150746	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207150754	Thank you. As the President has just explained, we shall be dealing today with motion for a resolution No. B-6, tabled by all the parties that the President has just mentioned, so I will not repeat that. With the proposal, the proposers will require the government to submit, during the current parliamentary year, a draft law establishing an independent control unit to ensure correct and uniform transfer prices for non-municipal providers of care for the elderly. It is the opinion of the proposers that the control unit may be set up under the authority of the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency and that it should be able to deal with cases relating to the calculation by the public of the cost of services to citizens. The proposers estimate that the cost of setting up the unit will be 5 million. kr., while the annual costs associated with the operation of the unit will be 3 million. kr. First of all, I would like to state that this government supports the right of the elderly to choose nursing homes and home care providers freely, so that is not what the discussion is about. It is clear from the rules in force that when the municipal council provides the free choice of personal and practical assistance where the price is fixed without price competition, the price must be fixed on market conditions in the sense that the settlement price is fixed on the basis of the transparent long-term costs incurred by the municipal supplier in producing and providing similar services. I understand that there are municipalities which have had difficulties in fixing the correct transfer prices. As you know, there has been a case in which the municipality of Brønderslev has been convicted of setting too low tariffs. That is why I am also pleased that the KL has started to do something about it. It is aware of the problems and has set in motion work to help the municipalities in a correct and uniform calculation of their transfer prices. KL includes Dansk Industri, Dansk Erhverv og Selveje Danmark in the work, where a template and guidance should be prepared for the municipalities to calculate their transfer prices. The final product must ensure maximum transparency by clarifying the inter-calculations and methods of calculation so that municipalities and private suppliers know the costs to be included in the cost calculations. KL has indicated that they expect to be able to pilot the final product at the end or at the beginning of 2022. In addition, my own ministry has launched an evaluation of transfer prices for free-care homes, which will be carried out by VIVE. The evaluation will look at how the municipalities calculate the free care providers and look at the calculation basis and the costs which form the basis for the municipal settlement. In 2015, when the billing model for free care homes was changed, it happened, among other things. because neither free-care homes nor municipalities found the previous system sufficiently fine-meshed and flexible. The evaluation will indicate whether the new settlement model has led to the changes in the elderly which were intended. The evaluation is expected to be completed by 2022. Greater efforts have already been made to find solutions to the problem of setting transfer prices and the settlement of free-care homes. It is an important piece of work that has been undertaken and it is expected that this work will bring about a real and tangible increase in the transparency of transfer prices to the private providers of home help and to home care. The proposal we are debating today is another proposal from Christiansborg, which will provide money for administration and create more bureaucracy. This government would rather spend the money on the care and presence of its citizens. Well-being is not created by rules and controls, but in the meeting between citizens and employees. As I said, the government supports the free elections of the elderly, but it is important for the government that free elections do not result in additional bureaucracy, where time and resources could instead be spent on the core task of care for the elderly. The motion for a resolution calls for 5 million to be spent. kr. the establishment of a control unit and a further 3 million. kr. Annually in service. It does not appear from the proposal that the municipalities would also have to be compensated for the time they would have to spend on additional administrative work. It is KL·'s assessment that the municipalities with the control unit will have to provide documentation for the individual items, which are shown differently from municipality to municipality. KL also estimates that a control unit will require the involvement of many employees, and there will also be information from other administrations that will be able to retrieve and document the amounts. KL states that the municipalities must and can show and explain their tariff calculations, but that having to document the exact amount of a control unit is a new and administratively heavy requirement for the municipalities. How much extra administrative work is involved is difficult to say, as it will depend on the actual design of the model. But the model is likely to be more expensive than set out in the motion for a resolution. In addition to the undervaluation of the cost of the proposal, I note that no funding has been allocated to the proposal. It is fundamentally irresponsible, in my view, to table a motion for a resolution without indicating funding. It is therefore a proposal for new bureaucracy in the municipalities with uncertain economic consequences. In this light, I will always prioritize time and care for our elderly, especially when a great deal of work has already been done by KL and my ministry to find solutions without requiring increased administrative work for the municipality. I am therefore fully aware of the challenges facing municipalities in setting transfer prices for private suppliers of home help and home care, but imposing an increased administrative burden on municipalities is not the right solution. That is why the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151333	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister. It is only from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151338	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister starts by stating that free elections are supported. But a prerequisite for a free choice is that there are private suppliers who want to provide a service, well to feel a service that today thousands of elderly people are very fond of and if we do not get this problem right, there will not necessarily be the future. Another thing I am pleased about is that for the first time I hear the Minister recognise that there is a problem, because I have asked quite a lot of section 20 questions and other questions about this, and there the Minister has not very much recognised that there is a problem. Then the Minister says that we should not have massive bureaucracy and that we should rather ensure that there are warm hands for the elderly. I do not know whether the Minister imagines that it is the same officials who are going to sit and supervise this, who are going to work in our care for the elderly. I think there is something quite fundamental that the Minister is messing up if that is the assumption. And then it seems as if the Minister thinks it is quite unreasonable to demand this from the KL, but I have to say to the Minister that it is already a requirement today that the KL should do these calculations correctly, so it cannot be an extra burden for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151442	I would like, in the course of the committee procedure, to pass on the assessments sent by the KL of what this proposal will mean in increased administration and bureaucracy in the municipalities. And the reality is, whether it is the same employees or some other employees, and you have to hire more administrative staff in the administration instead of hiring more people out at the elderly that we can only spend the time once in our elderly care. And if the Folketing asks me and now I answer it we have done too much of it, not only under the previous government, but also under governments before it. Our care for the elderly is becoming true of all the centralized bureaucratic demands that we, the Danish Parliament, have put on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151525	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151526	The way in which the Minister responds is directly dumbfounded for the democratic debate. I simply have to say that. Perhaps the Minister can reply to me whether this also entails administrative burdens for the municipalities that are being brought up against them today because these calculations are wrong, because what is the conclusion and the consequence today is that there have been legal proceedings because there is no review body. Will the Minister not try to answer whether it is not most appropriate for all parties to have a dialogue before it ends in court? That is what is happening today, i.e. that it ends up in court and that which, among other things, is happening. happened in the Brønderslev case.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151602	Thank you. Well, I think it is very sensible for the municipalities to have taken the initiative to do something about it. That is why the KL has taken the initiative for a work. I think they have engaged a company called Deloitte to develop a transparent pricing model with Selveje Denmark, Danish Business and also Danish Industry. So this picture that nobody takes this issue seriously but the rapporteur himself is not entirely correct. And it's certainly not stupid what I'm answering.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151632	The next brief remark is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151637	We are, of course, some who think it is extremely important that citizens of this country should be able to choose a different offer from that offered by the government if, for one reason or another, the public offer is not satisfactory. It may also be that you just have different tastes and pleasures and that a private offer is more adapted to the individual's wishes. However, the choice of a different offer and the inclusion of the money from the public sector requires a correct calculation of the public price. And there I just think it is a little thin for the Minister to refer to work by the municipalities themselves. And that's why it's not like putting the fox to guard the hens... put KL to find out if this is going on the right way. Is the Minister so naive to think that KL wants to do this in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151733	Thank you. Well, first, I just have a comment on the free choice thing. I mean, I think free choice is important, but I wish that, within the framework of our care for the elderly, we could have even greater respect for the self-determination and autonomy of the individual elderly, both from private suppliers and from public suppliers. Actually, I don't think we're in the finish line there. And perhaps the Liberal Alliance could agree with that and we could discuss it at some point. In relation to the specific work here, I would like to say that, firstly, the municipalities must comply with our legislation, and it is stipulated that when you provide the free choice without price competition, the price must be set at market conditions in the sense that it must be based on the average long-term costs of the municipal supplier. Secondly, KL has now started a piece of work, not in a closed cheese bell with itself, but together with Selveje Denmark, together with Dansk Erhverv, together with Dansk Industri and in cooperation with the company Deloitte for a transparent tariff calculation model. I think that sounds very wise, and I will look forward to seeing the product that comes out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151840	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151842	I see it as nothing more than an expression that the Minister is not taking this issue seriously enough. And that is fine in line with what the Minister has done in the past and what the government has done in the past, namely that the free choice is something that, under pressure, can make itself say well enough, too, on a theoretical level. But then we continue to talk about the autonomy of the elderly and so on, as if it were not expressed precisely in the free elections. So that's the kind of extracurricular talk that you often use. And this is also out of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151914	After all, this is going to be a debate on the free choice, even though I started by stating in my speech that we support it. When the free choice isn't enough; when I could dream that we had even more free choice, it's because with free choice you can't choose between services; you can't switch between the needs you have during the day; there isn't the flexibility that I dream we can get more into our elderly care, regardless of which supplier you have. So I warmly support the free choice, but we should not close our eyes to the fact that there are also some challenges to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207151956	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152000	I find it sad that the Minister cannot see that this is a very good resolution, which many people are behind. And can the Minister confirm that incorrect and inadequate billing rates for private carers distort competition and, of course, do private carers find it harder to reconcile their finances and thus also increase the risk of bankruptcy? So I would like to hear from the Minister about the situation we have today, which is precisely where we as a private supplier have to go in relation to complaining about it here. How can you explain the cost of this if you have nowhere to go and complain? Well, this is a very good proposal for an independent control unit, which I have to understand is unfortunately not supported by the Socialist Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152100	Thank you. Yes, these are the big words that have come out today. It used to be stupid, and now it's worthwhile. I simply do not think that we can do that in this way, that because someone does not subscribe exactly to a specific solution that would increase bureaucracy, increase administration and cost of it, both at state level, but also in the municipalities, we have not received funding because someone does not think that it is the right tool, but instead points to another tool that is being developed by the municipalities together with the Danish Business, Danish Industry and Selveje Denmark, then we do not think that there is a problem that can be recognised. I would simply like to put words in my mouth to conclude. I think it is good and important and necessary that the KL has taken the initiative in this work to develop a transparent charging model, and I will look forward to following that, and I am also pleased that they can have it done so quickly that we can start seeing some results as early as the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152155	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152156	The Minister did not answer the question of where to go as private companies. The Minister did not answer that question. The Minister will not help to increase legal certainty for private companies. That is also what this resolution does, precisely in terms of ensuring greater legal certainty. Because we know, and we can also see, with a judgment that has fallen, that payments are being made which are not correct, and so it also makes it more difficult for private individuals to provide the services they have to provide, if they do not get the funds, the same funds as the public authorities do, to operate their business.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152233	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I have examined both orally here and, incidentally, in some of the answers that the Conservatives' rapporteur referred to her having asked questions and given an answer as to what the legislation is today, in relation to how the municipalities should calculate their transfer prices, on what basis they should set it, and also in the legislation there are requirements for transparency of transfer prices and disclosure of evidence that the transfer prices are consistent with the actual costs. In addition to the fact that it is regulated in the legislation, KL, as I said, in response to the judgment referred to by the rapporteur, is in the process of creating a more transparent charging model that can help both the individual municipalities and the individual private suppliers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152320	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152324	Thank you. After all, the minister has the right point in saying that the law says that there must be equal prices if you are to pull it up a little hard for municipalities and private operators. But the challenge is, Minister, that there isn't. Because if it was the case that everyone did what the law says, it would have been, for example. it was not necessary to bring the municipality of Brønderslev to court, or other municipalities for that matter. So the challenge is, of course, Minister, that the legislation is not being complied with, and there I can just hear that there is no independent response from the government to the private actors, to how to ensure that the legislation is complied with or what sort of buttons you want to screw on. What I would like to ask is that the Minister mentioned that the Minister certainly supports free elections, and that is what my blue little liberal heart is really, really happy to hear. After all, there was a majority in favour of the Finance Act yesterday, so I would like to ask the Minister how it is reflected in the Finance Act, in other words that we should have more free choice for the elderly. Where is it reflected?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152435	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would just like to remind you that not using direct indictments is difficult when you say Minister. Because then it's a direct charge. The minister is quite correct. The Minister hereby gives the floor to:
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152453	Yeah, you can screw it up after years in here too. I always think that the spectators who are in the Chamber and had to look down here must think that this is a rather strange way of speaking to each other in that hall. However, these are rules that we have imposed on ourselves to remind ourselves that we are the finest place in our democracy. And now that we have had a bit more formal, I would also just like to say to the rapporteur that a judgment has been handed down this summer against the municipality of Brønderslev, which shows that when a municipality has broken the law, there will be a verdict. I do not assume that we should stand in the Parliamentary Chamber and discuss which municipalities we each think are breaking the law. That would certainly be a strange discussion. And I just have to stick to the fact that I think it is good that work has been started to develop a transparent tariff calculation model of KL so that we do not have to rush out from Christiansborg to legislate and create more bureaucracy and administration. Because it's at the expense of the care and care out there every time we do it, and we can only spend time once, and time is pinned down in our care for the elderly right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152558	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152559	The Minister is not answering my question. And I think that it has to be simple to answer when a financial law has been passed yesterday and there has been a doorstep press meeting and everything. When the Minister says that there is certainly a desire for more free choice, where is it that it is reflected in relation to the priorities in the area of the elderly? I've been able to spot 125 million. kr. Every year for the next four years for the elderly, this amounts to approximately 1.2 million. kr. per municipality for the next four years. Is it within this framework that the Minister wants more free choice? Or could the Minister not give some examples of where it is then that there is a desire for more free elections for older citizens? We want, for example. On the left side, there must be free-care homes in all municipalities. And then I would like to apologize for not keeping within the usual speaking framework here. I'll try to live by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152647	Thank you very much to the questioner. The Minister is hereby given the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152651	Thank you. When we talk about a free choice in the sense that it is actually about real self-determination, a real influence on one's own everyday life, one might ask: what is most important to me today? Is it to come out and see the autumn leaves or to come out and see the winter, now that it has become winter, and get some fresh air? Or what's more important to me today? Is it some pre-defined services that have been cut out completely square and that cannot take into account that two days are different and where the employees are running after a sharp driving list and cannot use their professional skills and their human knowledge to provide help to the elderly? This is, of course, some of the work we have set in motion together with the Finance Law Parties, both with our first Finance Act and, most recently, with a significant expansion of the work of permanent autonomous teams. We have even in the reserve agreement put a pool of for self-visitation experiments on the basis of a proposal from the Danish People's Party. So there are several places where we are drawing towards what I would also call a more real free choice for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152745	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152749	Thank you so much. Some time ago, we were negotiating some so-called free-community agreements in the area of the elderly, and it was very important for the Minister and the Red Support Parties that there was precisely no possibility of having a free choice, that it was precisely possible to cut the elderly off from free elections. In that debate, at least, I am left with the feeling that the Minister generally thinks that it is administratively awkward and bureaucratic, that there is any free choice at all, and that perhaps the Minister would rather see that there was no free choice and that there was no freedom of choice as an elderly person. Does the Minister really believe that it is troublesome and bureaucratic that the elderly have the opportunity to choose something other than the public?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152844	This shows that sometimes you have to go a little far before these discussions get really interesting. Because already in my introductory speech and precisely in order to prevent a strawman from being made on what I might think and have thought when I said something, I made it clear that we support the free elections of the government. I have also repeated it once, twice or three times, I think, so far, and I would like to repeat it a fourth time. I would also like to repeat that I would like us to have a care for the elderly, where there was even more room for the elderly to have influence and autonomy and to say: what day is it for me today? What's important to me today? And the elderly could be sure that the employee who came in knew the person and had a professional skill that enabled them to find out together what was most important that day. I wanted to think that this was something we could all support here in the Folketing and that we could take the discussion on how we could get closer to it. This, of course, requires a willingness to keep up the funding when there are more elderly people out there, so that we do not have an elderly care where savings are made. I know that the author's party will not be involved in this, and we can, of course, short-circuit the discussion already there. But this discussion about the free choice we have is a strange game fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152953	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207152956	After all, the Minister is actually lying, because that is simply not correct. If the Minister had got a little bit into things, the Minister would also know that New Citizens, for example, have made a plan where, among other things, we have made a plan. It is estimated that 43 billion will be invested in the Bank's operations. kr. to the area precisely to follow the demographic trait. So it's kind of sad that you have to have that debate. It is quite true that what I am saying is that the Minister, precisely in the agreement which the blue parties could not, of course, support, gave the municipalities the opportunity to cut off the elderly from having a free choice. But then I simply have to ask the Minister in general: in relation to the fact that providers can go bankrupt, does the Minister not think that if the money follows the individual, then you can choose good offers and bad ones from? And those with the bad offers would go bankrupt. Yes, but then you could go somewhere else and get a proper offer, unlike if you are tied to the same offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207153051	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I should also like to comment again. To claim a lie is to cross the line. One may disagree, there is room for that, but not to claim that lies are being made. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207153105	Now I completely forgot the last thing the rapporteur said. I just wanted to say in relation to the free community agreements that it shows how difficult it is for us inside the Folketing not to think that we always know the best. That was, and is, the most radical attempt of any government, and the task was not that we should stand here in the Assembly room and discuss what we were for or what we were opposed to by what had been introduced by centralised rules. Then we'd never have gone anywhere. The task was to remove centralized rules, and then in a municipality you could say that, and New Citizens could take the lead in one of the three municipalities: we want everything in private hands. You have the freedom to pursue that. That is, of course, the political discussion in the context of welfare agreements and municipalities. Then I would just like to say in all silence that I think it is a rather nonchalant attitude expressed to the most vulnerable elderly people who experience their home care provider going bankrupt and who are, of course, dependent on the municipalities being able, at a few days' notice, to put up with the manpower needed to provide them with the care and care they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207153206	Thank you, Minister. The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207153211	Thank you. I was inspired by Mrs Mette Abildgaard's enthusiasm for the Minister's support for free elections, and I also took note of Mrs Mette Abildgaard's comment on this: a prerequisite for free choice is precisely pricing. And that is absolutely right. May I not just add that a consequence of free choice is that we should also set prices. So since the Minister is so enthusiastic about the free choice, I just think that I would like to remind you that this is also what means that we have to do time measurement, low standards, low price calculations, which we cannot agree on and, incidentally, have not been able to agree on for more than 20 years now. We're gonna do a search. We have to settle. We need to make control. And it's a lot of transaction costs that follow. These are also costs which at least do not benefit the citizen particularly, because there are not many warm hands, if one can afford to use that expression, in this context. So what does the minister think about us once again, because this is not the first time that money has been spent on setting prices, spending money on pricing care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207153328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207153329	Thank you. I find it strange to turn it into such a petty religious discussion, as if free choice in itself is either the mother of all misfortunes or the mother of all bliss. It's none of it. There is self-determination and dignity in having the opportunity which I believe in such political language is called exit that one can vote with the feet of the elderly when one is so weakened that one has lost part of one's self-determination. But it's not done with it. In any case, I think that would be extremely unambitious if that is what we mean. That is where we stop the self-determination of the elderly, which is why I would like to find ways, and we have one of them. to find ways of bringing self-determination and autonomy into the everyday life of the elderly in cooperation with the relevant staff. There are also other negative consequences of free choice. Some of the governance that lies down on our care for the elderly, I would like to see if we could make it easier and make it simpler and debureaucratise and simplify, because it is time to leave the elderly. For the whole debate on bankruptcies, I have to repeat that I think it is terriblely nonchalant to say that then the bad ones go bankrupt, and never mind, you just choose some others. These are the most vulnerable elderly people we are dealing with. These are services on which they are deeply dependent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207153440	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207153441	But that is the challenge when you want to privatise, that you also have to, like knowing what you bought and what you pay for it. That is also what has created the concept of minute tyranny in the care of the elderly, which was, after all, one of the things the employees are trying to escape from. When free elections were introduced in Aarhus back in 2003, I was on the sidelines and saw that it cost 30 million at that time. kr. to introduce free choice. It cost 6 million. kr. in annual operations then, and I think that amount has not actually diminished. Will the Minister help to uncover the administrative costs that we spend on the privatisation of welfare, in order to see if some of that money could instead be channelled out to more and better care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207153527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207153529	Without knowing the actual figures, I think we can confirm that this will naturally increase over the years. In any case, I would very much like to see what we have of figures in this respect. And I think we should have the double ambition and see if we can debureaucratise and end the minute tyranny and put an end to the tight driving lists. I think it was a social and health worker who said to me in West Zealand recently: it is as if it is a grocery store, but people are not chopped up in goods or services. I would like to see how we can steer ourselves out of it or remove the control that makes us stand there. Yes, it will be a longer philosophical discussion, but thank you for the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207153611	Unfortunately, time does not allow that. That is why the President has risen. Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. That is how the rapporteur can begin. This welcomes the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207153627	Thank you for the floor. B 6 proposes the creation of a new State control body to control municipal settlement charges with private companies in the area of the elderly. It goes without saying that the municipalities must, of course, comply with the legislation, including the correct calculation of private suppliers in the area of the elderly. I also believe that we all need clarity and transparency; it is in everyone's interest, and I also understand that this is something that is being paid attention to by the National Association of Municipalities, which has set work in motion in the area; a work that also involves Danish Industry, Danish Industry and Selveje Denmark. This is where you want, among other things. look at whether a common template and a guide can be prepared. This will then create more transparency for the benefit of both municipalities and private suppliers, and of course we look forward to that work. As far as I can see, the motion for a resolution has come into being on the basis of a single case in the municipality of Brønderslev. And I would like to support the Minister in saying that we must be careful not to set off a new large bureaucracy where we need to spend several million on a single case, because then we risk very quickly removing the focus from exactly what it is all about, namely the care of our elderly. In my view, it would be a new bureaucracy if a new recording equipment were to require documentation from the municipalities. Then the municipalities must again spend time on this rather than on the core task of caring for our older citizens. In fact, that was also the argument when a similar competence was removed from the Competition Council in 2013. At that time it was estimated that the proposal, together with a number of other measures, could ease the municipalities' administrative burden of 132 million. kr. As I understand the authors of the proposals, they have only calculated what it will cost to set up the control unit and not what it will cost the municipalities to operate it in working hours. It is easy enough to think that we have to get rid of bureaucracy, but it is when, as today, we meet the individual cases that the fine words actually have to stand their test, otherwise we can continue to introduce new controls here from Christiansborg one time after another. This is where we have to show that we mean it when we say that we want to set the welfare free. The resolution also mentions that the rate for private nursing homes varies from municipality to municipality, but so does the cost of public care for the elderly and it is important to remember. This is partly because elderly care is given different priorities around the country and has different challenges. Of course, when you want private transfer prices to be connected to the local authorities, there is also a price difference with the price difference that cannot be different. In other words, the difference is also a consequence of the municipal self-government... now there were municipal elections three weeks ago. One of the reasons for this is that local politicians are helping to set the service framework where they are now politicians. As I said, a work has been started by KL with the involvement of Dansk Industri, Dansk Selveje and Dansk Erhverv, and at the same time a process must begin to evaluate the current rules. I understand that, for example. is about settlement rules in relation to free-care accommodation. In other words, several things have been set in motion. There are several tracks running right now and, as we see it, this resolution will, as I said, just mean more bureaucracy, and therefore we cannot support the proposal either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154000	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a wish for a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it is from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154005	I have to correct the rapporteur and say very clearly that this resolution is not about a single matter, not about a single matter, unfortunately. This is a general problem that Danish Occupation writes long letters about, Dansk Industri makes crowns around it, Selveje Denmark makes calculations about it, OK-Fonden tells it and shows it, and KA Care is filing a case in several municipalities right now because of this problem, because the wrong calculations help to remove the basis for the free choice that we think is so important to the elderly. Then the rapporteur says that we have not calculated what it would cost the municipality to run this, but the municipalities should not operate anything. We have made provision for the creation of a unit. Then it is true that if there is a complaint about the calculations that have been made, let us say in Horsens Municipality, then Horsens Municipality must come and present the calculations they have already made, because they have to make calculations when they calculate the tariff. So Horsens Municipality should not do any further, compared to what they are doing today, but they must document how they have arrived at a figure. How can it be more work to document what is already to be calculated?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154115	Thank you. The introduction of a new supervisory body will also mean that the municipalities will have to report to this supervisory body, and everything else will mean more bureaucracy. That is what we are trying to do in this Parliament: to reduce bureaucracy. This is among other things. Therefore, we have introduced free municipalities in the area of older people, precisely in order to free municipalities from some rules so that they do not have to spend time on a lot of bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154138	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154138-2	There is no need here to free the municipalities from rules, here there is a need to ensure that the municipalities follow the rules that are already there today. And when management experts point to the judgment of Brønderslev and say that this is a huge problem for the foundations of our welfare societies, is it not something that is taken seriously in the Social Democracy? Then you want KL to create a guide and a template. So, honestly, it was done in 2014; there was a guide. Now, so many years later, should a new guide and a new template be created, and do you really believe that it will solve anything? This has already been done.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154215	Well, I take note of the fact that KL is doing it in cooperation with, among others. Danish Industry, Danish Business and Selveje Denmark, and in this way at least more views come in than just KL's own views. And if that does not reassure the rapporteur, I could really get a little worried, because I think that these are the organisations mentioned by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154233	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154237	Thank you so much. To follow up a little on the Conservative rapporteur, I would like to say that I am a little worried about whether the Socialist rapporteur has not read the resolution, because it is quite clear what it is for an agency to be set up and, in fact, there is funding for what it costs to operate it. So money has not only been set aside to create it or calculated how much it will cost to create it, but actually also what it will cost to operate it. What will the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154309-2	Then I will repeat what I said just now: when we create new control units, it also means more bureaucracy, it means more spending on municipalities, and it means more work and more reporting. So that way around, I don't agree. But I would also like to say, as I said before, that a work has been started with KL and Dansk Industri and Dansk Erhvervs and Selveje Denmark precisely to have a look at this, and I think that work should follow closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154334	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154335	I am well aware of the Socialist view that free elections are somewhat hasty and bureaucratic, but at least we do not share that view in New Citizens, because we would like to have more free elections. But I still do not understand it, because we can clearly see that what the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party says is not a single problem, because this is actually something we need, precisely in order not to go out and run legal proceedings and everything else, that is to say that there is a supervisory body. Does the rapporteur not really think that it will benefit the citizens if prices are transparent and that this opens up much more opportunities for free choice for the individual elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154427	As I started by saying, I think we are all interested in transparency and that things are clear, and that is why it is also and I repeat myself, but I think it is reassuring that a working group of KL, Danish Industry, Danish Industry and Selveje Denmark has now been set up precisely the people it is about when it comes to the free choice, i.e. those who have to be the performing link and the commissioning link, and that they sit down and look at what really needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154454	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154455	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Socialist rapporteur for his speech, and I would like to say that I am very surprised that the Socialist rapporteur can say that this resolution is based on one matter, namely the Brønderslev case. However, this may also explain something about the very nonchalant attitude of both the government and the Socialists to the particular issue here. If you are simply not aware that more cases have been raised out there, i.e. out there in reality, where life is lived, also in the Danish courts. It can, of course, explain and apologise that the rapporteur simply does not know what is going on, and that is something we respect here too. Now the rapporteur is talking so much about the fact that we should not impose any more bureaucracy, and I think that is what we are all agreed on, that is to say, that things must be flexible. So I would like to ask something: can the Social Democratic Party back the fact that we have uniform spending rules in all municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154556-2	As the rules are right now, there are some things that must be observed in all municipalities, and I hope that will be the result in the future. I cannot imagine that you will have the same price, for example. The municipality of Copenhagen or the municipality of Brønderslev, to take the two municipalities, because there may be local things that make the prices simply look different. But as it is today, I don't think it's something we can do anything about, because I don't think we can ever get the same price. That is not the case today. In the area of the elderly, the municipalities use different funds per year. citizens from the municipality to the municipality, and there can be a very big difference in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154633	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154634	I fully recognise this, namely that municipalities are different and that there are different priorities. I myself have been in a municipal council for more than 10 years. But that's not what I'm asking. I ask, of course, whether the Socialists also think it is a good idea for you to have the same budgeting rules in all municipalities • the same budgeting rules in all municipalities. Can the Socialists support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154657	Now I have also been in a municipal council, and when there is talk of budgeting rules, it is usually about which account numbers you account for and how the expenditure is allocated. And I'm gonna be answerable if there's a very big difference. I am not aware that there are very large differences in the accounting rules, and I have the impression that things are running very straight between municipalities. But it may be that there is something I do not know about budgeting rules in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154719	The next brief remark is to Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154724	The rapporteur speaks a lot about bureaucracy and repeats several times that this will lead to more bureaucracy. However, I would like the rapporteur to say that there are price differences for a home care allowance with just over DKK 300. in one municipality and just over 500 DKK. in another municipality. It is difficult for me to relate to the fact that these are different standards of service, and I therefore think what the rapporteur thinks about the fact that the same service can cost so much different things. It is for me what we get for our welfare crowns that it is quite transparent, so that we give the maximum. the elderly and that it is not diffuse what things cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154812-2	Thank you. Well, I think that in the best of all worlds things would be very simple and very transparent, and then we would be able to see transparently through everything. But the reality is that the municipalities have different costs for the citizens. Thus, the operating costs from one municipality to another may look different depending on the size of the unit and how the staff composition is. We know from elsewhere in the public sector that it can be difficult to make things exactly the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154840	Mrs Christina Thorholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154842	However, both Ernst & Young and BDO have conducted studies on how different prices are. So what is the rapporteur's position on the fact that there is so much difference between the individual municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154855	I would like to admit to the rapporteur from the Radical Left that on paper it looks like very, very large differences, and that is why I also think that it is in the interests of all of us that things become more transparent and that we can see what this is all about. That is why I am also looking forward to the work I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154910	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207154940	What's it gonna cost? This is an issue that comes up over and over again when we talk about non-communal providers of care for the elderly. Since 2003, it has been possible for the elderly to choose freely who is to provide the elderly care to which the individual has been searched by the municipality. This is very good, because people are different and have different preferences throughout their lives and that must be reflected in our welfare offer. But what's it gonna cost? And how do we ensure that private suppliers get a fair price for their services? Yes, unfortunately, in many cases these questions remain unanswered. Studies across the country's municipalities show that there is a large difference in the price at which the municipalities calculate non-municipal suppliers. The consequence may be that some private suppliers hold back from providing care for the elderly and thus we will have a less varied supply and a lack of competition in this area. That is really a pity, because it affects our older people and their right to live the life they have chosen for themselves. The rules in this area are quite clear. Private suppliers must be settled at the same price as it costs the municipality to provide the same service. Despite this, many private providers of elderly care find that they are charged too low a price because the municipalities do not calculate the actual costs. The municipality may forget to consider the wages of the local handyman at the nursing homes, external maintenance or the care cars used by the municipality, all of which distort the final settlement to the private supplier. The consequence is that it will be difficult for private suppliers to make the business run around. The supplier may withdraw from the market with subsequently fewer tenders as a result. Then we are at the heart of the problem, because when that happens, the individual citizen will have less choice, and just the possibility of free choice is important to us in the Left. We do not have any preference in relation to whether you choose one or the other, private or public, but we have the clear preference that there must be something to choose from both in terms of care and care, food service and choice of nursing homes. Older people's service and care isn't a one size fits all. What is right for one to eat for the evening is not necessarily right for the neighbor. We in the Left have proposed a guarantee of freedom of choice so that our elderly are not bound by the choices made by the municipality on behalf of the citizen. Why should you not be allowed to choose food from the local inn or the local butcher? Let the money go with the citizen. And why aren't there free-care homes in all municipalities, so that all elderly people have a real choice when the last important home is to be chosen? We in the Left are not satisfied that thousands of elderly people and their relatives only have one option when the last home is to be chosen, namely the municipal offer. We must and must do better so that everyone can live the life they have chosen. But if we have to have more free-care homes, preferably one in each municipality, then it is absolutely essential that the framework is in order so that pension funds, private people and other actors have a reasonable chance of getting the economic ends to reach together. As it is today, there is no possibility of testing the pricing of each municipality unless the municipality is brought into court. And with regard to the small local supplier, who may have one municipality as a customer, it doesn't take much imagination to imagine that it's probably not the first thing you do. There is therefore a need for us to have an independent appeal body that can follow up enquiries from suppliers who experience irregularities in the settlement they receive from the municipality. The same body must also be able to take matters up on its own initiative, and we propose, in particular, together with colleagues in the blue bloc, that an independent control unit be set up under the Competition and Consumer Protection Board, such as the European Commission. can raise a case that has been in the press or observe areas where the market does not seem to work. We have seen a heavy trial, and it is a circumstantial path to go, although the joy is great when you get the court's word that the municipality has miscalculated. Life happiness and dignity are also about the right to be master of one's own house, if you may say so, to decide for yourself. We owe this to our older people, who have made big and small decisions on their own during a long life. Why should we deprive the elderly of that right in the last important years of their lives? I am aware that KL has initiated a work involving also the Danish Industry, Danish Employers' Association and Selveje Denmark. I am also aware that the government has made an agreement with VIVE on the evaluation of the legislative changes that we made together back in 2015 • just as Deloitte is preparing a template for guidance on the settlement of private suppliers. But that does not change the fact that an independent appeal body is needed so that the courts are not the only option.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207155452	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I do not see any wish for short remarks to the rapporteur, so I can welcome the next rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207155513	Thank you. I was just listening to the music that was out in the Palace Square. It was Christmas songs, I could hear. I would like to start by saying to the Minister, who says that we have not allocated any funding for this, that we have just concluded some reserve negotiations where we fought to get some funding for this particular proposal. A judgment has been handed down in which the municipality of Brønderslev has been sentenced to pay 5 million. kr. in compensation for the private home care company Inkprutten ApS, because the municipality has underpaid the private supplier and did not make the statutory calculations of what the municipality's own home help actually costs. It is an important judgment because it has focused on what Dansk Industri and Dansk Erhverv have been pointing out for years, namely that several municipalities are paying private suppliers of home help. Now it has been established that the municipality of Brønderslev has used artificially low tariffs, and therefore they now have to pay the private supplier a large compensation. When we in the Danish People's Party have been involved in tabling this resolution, it is because we believe that the free choice of the elderly is also important for the quality of care for the elderly. And if there is to be a free choice, there must also be reasonable conditions for private suppliers, which is the real alternative to municipal services. We want an independent control unit to be set up to ensure correct and uniform transfer prices for non-municipal providers of care for the elderly. In this way, we can ensure that our elderly have a real free choice, and this is extremely important for us, because it helps to ensure that our elderly have a good old age with self-determination and influence on their own lives. That was also one of the things we had hoped we could secure with our proposal for an elderly law which, unfortunately, was shot down. But free choice is also important for quality and dignity. The only problem is that the free choice is challenged when the municipalities set the rates on the basis of a poor estimate of the costs associated with municipal care for the elderly. After all, it is distorting the relationship between municipal and private companies, and that is neither fair to private suppliers nor to older citizens. The inadequate inventory of the costs associated with the municipality's operation of home care, nursing homes and free care homes is a problem that we have to deal with, because it matters to the private suppliers' ability to make good offers, and it ends up affecting the free choice of the elderly. When the municipalities' pricing of their own services is set too low, we will not experience real competition on quality, because the private sector is struggling to deliver the level of service that the municipality has set at an artificially low price. This resolution is important for private suppliers, because today they do not even have the opportunity to verify whether the municipality has now included all relevant items in their calculations of the costs of the municipality's home care or nursing home. The only option they have is to bring a case before the courts, and in many cases that is not a very attractive solution, because then they will have to drag their own customer, that is to say the municipality, into court. We need to get the balance back in this system and ensure the free choice of the elderly, and we think this proposal does. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207155836	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. And thus welcome to the next rapporteur, who comes from the Socialist People's Party. And this is Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207155851	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. And thank you for tabling the motion for a resolution so that we can once again have a debate on the pricing of care for the elderly. I do not think anyone can be surprised at this, I think that I and the SF are very sceptical about this proposal, and that is why we are going to vote against it. I might as well say that right away. Firstly, we really believe that the proposal is a little untimely right now that KL, in collaboration with Danish Industry, Danish Business and Selfeje Denmark, is preparing a template and a guide to ensure that the transfer prices for private suppliers and free-care homes are calculated correctly. I have to say that there have been some people who are closest to being able to agree on what the right price is. Secondly, it is also surprising that so-called liberal parties, which from time to time advocate more deregulation, are now calling for more state control in the form of the creation of a new control unit for public cost calculations in the area of older people. Indeed, one comes to think of the old Communist Lenin, who spoke the winged words: Trust is good, but control is better. In the SF we seem to have more faith in municipal autonomy than the large old Communist Party, the Left. I think that's a little thought-provoking myself. I think that should also be thought-provoking for the Left. In addition, however, we believe that if we really focused on the pressure on expenditure in the area of the elderly, we should look at the high transaction costs that are currently being imposed on municipalities when they have to approve private suppliers and work with rigid ordering and performing models, because older citizens in all municipalities must be offered a free choice, both in terms of practical and personal home care and also in relation to the choice of elderly housing. The latter, moreover, is somewhat of a pseudo-election in many municipalities, because there are actually long waits to have an elderly home at all, whether it is private or public. And when the need arises and you are finally searched, you may have to take the accommodation that is now available. That is why we in the SF also think it is important that all elderly homes are the best elderly homes. Maybe I'd think otherwise if we had unsuspected resources. Actually, I wouldn't deny that. We just don't. The care of the elderly is mega-pressed, there are too few employees for too many tasks. In SF, we always have to give priority to easing the pressure on employees and the vulnerable elderly before we facilitate the conditions for the providers in the care of the elderly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207160148	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207160158	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann says that there are too few hands for too many tasks, and I fully acknowledge that there are places where there are. But the consequence of this miscalculation is that you pay off some private suppliers, and in the end it is the elderly who suffer, because then there are fewer hands to provide the care and care they need. The OK Foundation has made some calculations, which they have also put out, and which are publicly available, where you can see that if a nursing home in Randers had the same rate as in Furesø, it would be in a nursing home with 72 places corresponding to having 27 more years' work available, i.e. 27 full-time employees who could be in a nursing home with 72 residents. That would make a gigantic difference. So when the rapporteur says that there are too few hands for too many tasks, does the rapporteur really not recognise that this can help solve the problem by making correct calculations where the municipalities spend the money they are obliged to, even in the case of private suppliers?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207160301	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207160302	I really don't care if it's public or private suppliers who do the job. Well, the logo on the company car isn't really important to me. It is the same tasks that are being solved, and it is the same staff that comes and solves them, and if you work according to the approval model, it is also the same price that you deliver to whether you are a municipal supplier or you are a private supplier. It is only by tender that there is also a difference in price. I think, in fact, that some of the nursing homes where you actually have purchase benefits or where you pay relatively more to live there, would have to provide a basis for how you set prices in the rest of Denmark for my sake. The problem is that we cannot always agree on what the level is, and some of the prices to which Mrs Abildgaard refers do not, of course, give a picture of what these are for some tasks that actually end up being solved in the end. And now my time ran out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207160357	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207160359	However, on the basis of the judgment in Brønderslev, there was an article in Berlingske which was published on 9 July. This is simply a gamechanger for the welfare society, says the title of the article, and Professor Per Nikolaj Bukh is quoted as saying that this judgment is so embarrassing that it must impress all municipalities in Denmark. This should be a gamechanger The verdict is a clear signal to all municipalities that they can get into big trouble when they don't follow the law, says the professor. When it is pointed out, do we not have an obligation in here to ensure that this is corrected, also with something other than just creating a template and a guide that has been made before?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207160433	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207160434	I have just been working on this area for so many years, and so, in 2003, the freedom of choice law was introduced, and all municipalities were forced to work on pricing, standards, time measurements and calculations in relation to contracts, and it has been expensive. It is also a cost, you might say. I think it is right to use the right prices. I am most concerned about whether the elderly receive the help they need and whether the staff have proper conditions, and I do not think that we are best at fixing the prices in this Parliament. Perhaps in reality, it is a real forum that has sat down to look at pricing right now, namely the private suppliers and KL who have the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207160518	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. There are no more brief comments. The next to be welcomed is the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Christina Thorholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207160537	Thank you. The Radical Left agrees with the authors of the motion for a resolution that the free choice of citizens is challenged by the differing accounting practices of the municipalities and the calculation of transfer prices, among others. home care and the costs associated with the operation of municipal care for the elderly. The poor calculation in some municipalities will have an impact on the private companies as they do not get the settlement corresponding to the costs of home care in the municipality. This gives private suppliers different framework conditions in terms of providing public services. We believe that there must be fair, fair and transparent conditions of competition for private companies and assess, among other things, against the backdrop of competition policy. Ernst & Young's study of the rates in six municipalities shows that there is too much difference in the calculation of the rates. The BDO study in 2017 also showed that there was a large variation across the municipalities and that there was no explanation other than that there were different accounting practices. DI did a study in 2020 that showed a difference in transfer prices that could be as large as just over DKK 300. in one municipality and a little more than 500 DKK. in the other municipality. We believe that the analyses show that practice in the municipalities should be given extra light on the problem this summer, when a private company agreed that the municipality had set too low prices, and Vestre Landsret sentenced the municipality to pay 5 million. kr. in compensation for the care business because the municipality had not made the statutory calculations. And as Mrs Mette Abildgaard also mentioned, Professor Per Nikolaj Bukh said that the judgment was embarrassing in relation to the practice of the municipalities. We have put the emphasis on finding out what the problem is, because there we recognise that work has been started at KL in cooperation with business organisations on both the evaluation of the settlement model for free care homes and the transparency of home care tariff calculations and that KL is in the process of preparing a guide to the tariffs. However, I am now somewhat concerned when I see in a note from the KL that they find it tiresome and do not encourage good cooperation with the criticism from the suppliers when the problem is that the municipalities do not have a sufficiently uniform practice in the calculation of costs. We would like to see the effect of the work on fair and fair settlement before we think it is necessary to spend money on an additional control unit. We will be calling for evaluation in the course of the discussion, because we need to get this right. And there should be no doubt that if the new guidance is not consistent with the transfer pricing system, then we are ready to support the proposal to set up a control unit, because that is what we need to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207160920	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment to Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207160925	Well, I am pleased that the rapporteur fully recognises the challenges and the very great consequence it has for our elderly and for the possibility of having a free choice if these calculations are not correct and provide fair competition for everyone. After all, we have recently been through reserve negotiations where we also discussed this here as an element and where the Conservative People's Party and the Radical Left also cooperated on a model similar to the one we are talking about here. That is why I would really like to hear from the rapporteur: if there can be funding for the motion for a resolution we are tabling here, on which we can agree, and this can be discussed during the committee procedure, could the rapporteur possibly end up backing this motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161010	Christina Thorholm, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161012	We would certainly be open to that, because we're worried about KL's attitude in this context, and they've had the opportunity to work on this. And there must be fair and transparent competition in relation to these tariffs.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161027	Mette Abildgaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161029	Well, thank you very much for the answer that pleases me very much. I am also glad that the KL has begun to see this, but the truth is that this has been done first because it has been pressed for because there have been legal proceedings and because there has been political pressure. Otherwise, this is not an agenda to which the KL has in any way wished to contribute on its own initiative. So thank you for that commitment and then we look forward to discussing possible sources of funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161052	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161054	Thank you. That fg. President One has 1⁄2 minutes to answer if one wishes). Well, I don't think there was anything else in the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161102	It's so fine. Then we would like to thank the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall then welcome the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr Gundelach's report. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161115	Thank you. If you listen to the debate, you can get the impression that this is primarily about problems with the earnings of private companies, more than it really is about the freedom of the elderly and the satisfaction of the needs of the elderly, and I would like to say at the outset that we in the Enhedslist do not share the concerns of the authors of the proposals about the profitability of companies in the care of the elderly. It can also be said that these companies have a form of free choice as to whether they want to invest their money in the care of the elderly in a given municipality. What we see rather is the problem: there are a number of private actors who have the opportunity to draw a surplus which should have been used to give our older citizens better care and care, out of care for the elderly, and then we believe that the whole system that has been built up over the last 20 years has helped to generate greater bureaucracy in this area. This has helped generate more administrative tasks that ultimately mean that we spend the funds on administration and bureaucracy instead of spending them on improving our care for the elderly. We would very much like the elderly to have a greater influence on the aid they receive; there should be no doubt about that here. There needs to be greater flexibility in the care of the elderly so that there will be better opportunities to adapt aid so that it responds to the needs of the individual elderly and so that we ensure that the elderly have a greater degree of self-determination. As I hear the debate today, not today, but otherwise, there is a recognition that there is far too little flexibility in the care of the elderly today and that there is a need to change the management models where there is too much thought about buying and selling and where too much is thought of in divided individual services and far too little in the possibilities of adapting aid to the individual needs of the individual elderly. That is why we in the Enhedslisten are also pleased with the attempts that have been made by the government or the Danish Parliament. We have decided on this here in three municipalities for greater freedom to care for the elderly, just as we think it is very reasonable that we have set a great project in motion to test the possibilities that exist in autonomous teams in the care of the elderly, which aim to better meet the wishes and needs of the individual elderly. And in relation to the private actors, we would like to see a fundamental approach taken to changing the models that have been pressed down over the area since 2003, and we think that we could appropriately take a discussion which is not only about the municipalities' settlement models, but which is about the whole way we organise care for the elderly when there is a completed evaluation, which several of the rapporteurs have mentioned that KL has launched. So we agree with the proposers that the models we have in this area do not work well enough. Of course, I have also read with interest the verdict of the Vestre Landsret, which states that at least in the municipality of Brønderslev they did not have a way of dealing with the legislation that was actually in line with it, and that is why they have also been convicted by the Court of Justice, and I understand that we will also have a decision later in the Supreme Court if it gets this far in the judicial system. All in all, however, I have to say that we are eagerly awaiting the evaluation that will be made in the context of the dialogue between the KL and the private actors. I would say, however it may fall out, that we want a change in the way in which care for the elderly is organised, and we certainly do not want a new control system to be added to a model for the organisation of care for the elderly, which we believe should be changed so much. So the Enhedslisten cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161542	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's for Mrs. Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161547	It is sometimes both easy and convenient for us politicians to put each other in boxes. One is a revolutionary from Enhedslisten and a purely concrete socialist; one is an evil capitalist as a conservative, who thinks only of corporate earnings. But sometimes I also think that we should not play the political game and then acknowledge that we all really want what is best for our elderly people in a matter like the one we are discussing here today. I believe that it is important for our care for the elderly that there is the possibility of more suppliers; that there is the possibility of learning from one another; that there is the possibility that the elderly can choose what suits them best. For example, in the City of Copenhagen you have. in the municipality learned from the private suppliers of home care, in relation to ensuring that it is the same employee who comes with the elderly. The privates have been good at this in the City of Copenhagen. There the municipality has seen that hoof, here's something we can do better. This has been tightened up and improved. Does the rapporteur not recognise that this is the way to achieve a knowledge sharing and a better result for the elderly by having diversity?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161652	Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161653	In general, I am not in favour of simplifying the political debate. It makes it so sad and conform. So you have to be careful not to give other views that they do not have. In fact, however, I believe that there is a very strong ideological impact on the way in which, among other things, we are dealing with. The Conservative People's Party, but the proposers here in general, is looking at our older sector. And I believe that what is at the top of the list is to create a good, strong business area for private companies. And then I am not going to give the Conservative People's Party the thought that it should go badly for the elderly. I am convinced that the Conservative People's Party would very much like to see this combined with good and well-functioning care for the elderly. However, I have no doubt that the conditions of private operators are very much in that debate, even for the questioner. And I think today's debate has testified to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161755	Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161756	I just think it's crazy. I think it is crazy if the rapporteur really sincerely believes that for me, as rapporteur for the elderly, that for me as a grandson and as a daughter, for me as a former employee in a nursing home, the important thing is how private suppliers feel, i.e. whether they can make a profit or not. No, the important thing for me is how to ensure a dignified old age for our old people, how to ensure that they have the opportunity to make free choices when they grow old, just as they do in their youth and in their lives in general. That's a sad simplistic thing. This proposal guarantees the freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161831	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161832	After all, it is very rare for people in the political debate to meet people who say that we do not want welfare. Well, I haven't encountered them. But that does not change the fact that the way one nevertheless acts politically can affect the degree of welfare in different ways. It is just my view that with the approach of the Conservative People's Party, private players are put higher than older people, and we think this is really bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161859	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161903	Thank you so much. I would like to follow up on this by simply asking a simple and very simple question about having a free choice. Does Enhedslisten's rapporteur and Enhedslisten believe that Enhedslisten is better at defining what good quality is than the older ones themselves yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207161925	I guess it's hard to answer that precisely. I think that what is needed is to create a structure in which the elderly do not have to choose between different suppliers. Because I really don't think this area is very suitable for that. I think it is more important for the individual to be able to make some choices so that he can use his right of self-determination to what kind of help he wants. I do not think that requires different suppliers. This requires that we have a versatile care for the elderly and that we have flexible care for the elderly, which allows us both to choose between nursing homes and help in our own homes, and which allows us to do so, after all, that is what we are trying to do with the permanent teams to provide help in such a way that it meets exactly the needs of the individual elderly and is not built on the basis of individual services to be provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162028	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162029	Oh, my God. So in short: Yes, Enhedslisten believes that Enhedslisten knows better than the elderly themselves. There we in New Citizens just have a little more faith in our older people in Denmark, namely that they can actually define for themselves what good quality and what high quality are for them. That is why it is important for us to ensure that the elderly have a free choice. It may be difficult for a socialist to understand that one will choose oneself, even when one gets older, but I find it very difficult to understand how one can actually stand and say that one actually knows better than the older people who have to live with this every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162114	Thank you. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162115	I'm not gonna say anything about that. I say that, as a welfare society, we are building together some models for how we deal with welfare. And the models and the systems on which we build welfare require political decisions, because otherwise there was no reason for us to have much discussion about it either. But within the welfare model that we want, there must be a very high degree of freedom of choice. However, we do not see the introduction of private actors who can withdraw money from municipal care for the elderly as an expression of greater freedom for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162147	Thank you. There are just a few brief comments to be made. The next one I would like to give the floor is Christina Thorholm, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162155	I know the rapporteur's sense of detail and thoroughness, so I would like to ask the rapporteur to take a look at the studies that have been carried out, among other things. from Ernst & Young, where there are significant differences in the calculation of the tariffs. Studies from 2020 show that there is a difference in hourly prices of more than DKK 200. That's a lot of it. There is an hourly price of DKK 300, respectively. 500 kroner. for the basically the same performance. What is the rapporteur's position on this debate in relation to being able to provide welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162233	Sir. Silver mound, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162235	I think that reflects the fact that there is a problem. That's all I'm gonna say. But it can reflect many different things. This may reflect a widely differing level of service in the municipalities. We know the discussion about how the students are recognised... are they not recognised? But then there may also be some underlying services in the municipality, which are not the direct help to the citizen and which are more or less recognised. That is the system we also know from the specialized social area. And there are really great opportunities for municipalities to juggle around with money, and the more buying and selling and the market there are, the more we get municipalities to cultivate that type of model and spend time managing the schemes instead of spending time and money to ensure better welfare. But yes, it reflects a problem that there are so great differences.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162327	Is there another comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162330	Yeah. I am glad to hear that there is a problem, and I think that when you know what a thing costs it obviously takes some resources so that you can also better assess whether it is too much or too little. You don't just have to have a big bag of money or a giant box and don't relate to whether it costs 300 kroner. or 500 kr., or that a settlement cost 1,000 kr. or DKr 1,200. It is essential for the welfare we can provide that we know what it costs, so that we can see whether we can do better and cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162400	But the reason why there is such a great deal of concern is that we have gone more and more to market it here. So the discussion is less and less about • just as we can hear it today • how we actually meet the needs of the individual elderly to receive individual support and help, and more and more about how we build up these bureaucratic systems so that the municipalities cannot cheat the private actors or that the private actors cannot cheat the municipalities. It is really sad that the elderly have moved there, that it is all about how we manage market mechanisms, rather than about the welfare and care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162441	Thank you. The next person I would like to give the floor to is Mr Spencer. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162445	I don't know a single person who makes money delivering private care for the elderly. I can't even put a face or name on anyone who makes money from providing private care for the elderly. On the other hand, I know a great many people who have received care for the elderly or who will receive care for the elderly. That's why it's fucked up, too. Jakob Silverhøj claims that my reason for supporting a free choice in this area should be that I will take into account that some people can make money, rather than being that some other people I know can get proper care for the elderly. That's fucked up. What is certain, on the other hand, is that Enhedslisten has a programme of principles and a policy that says that the way one organises oneself in private companies is simply exploitation; that there are some who own a company and some others who work for the company and are paid for it is exploitation and it must be abolished. That is also why Enhedslisten opposes every time we are some who want to give a free choice between public service and private service. That is because Enhedslisten is opposed to the way in which private companies are organised. - Sir... Jakob Silverhøj confirm that Enhedslisten is against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162551	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162552	We have nothing against private companies. I am not going to be able to assess whether the questioner knows of any company that makes money on the elderly. I would just like to say that the companies that invest millions and billions of kroner to run care for the elderly in the municipalities are then led unwisely. If it really is not something they earn, I would like to raise my hand as a shareholder and ask: could it not be good to invest the money in a different way than in a company that is obviously not worth making money? So I do not think the questioner is right in his assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162632	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162634	Is that something you learn at a party school, like Mr. Jakob Silverhøj has been that one should answer bypassing the fact that one should say things that are wrong about the question that has been asked? I personally do not know any human being who runs such a business of care for the elderly. Of course, it is not for the sake of some people that I do not know that I am in favour of free choice. I know a lot of people who have received care for the elderly or who have to receive care for the elderly. It's for the good of them that I do it. It is clear in Enhedslisten's programme of principles that socialism is about abolishing private companies; that you are employed in a company with a capitalist. I guess that's what sir is. Jakob Silverhøj's motivation not to give free choice to private companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162719	Here you go, sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162721	I'm sorry if I misunderstood. I thought the questioner did not know that there are some who profit from it. I also don't have close acquaintances that make money from the care of the elderly. I admit it. So we share that experience. Nevertheless, there are large companies that make a huge amount of money from running care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162743	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no more brief comments. And then we're gonna have to get the liquor off at the end. We are skipping the Conservative People's Party because the rapporteur for the proposers is finally on the table, and that is why Mrs Mette Thiesen is now the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207162815	It must be safe and good to get older in Denmark, but unfortunately it is not too many today, as a new study, which Elders Tag has made Danmarks Statistik do, clearly shows. One in five elderly people who receive help with the bath cannot bathe or be washed when they need it, and one in three elderly people who need help with cleaning do not get cleaned when they need it. The lack of care and cleaning makes older people lonely, as it can prevent them from inviting guests and having association with other people and that is simply not how it should be. The Danes have different needs. This applies from childhood to old age, and the system should not change that. That is why we have in New Citizens respect for the Danes' different needs. It must be safe and good for everyone to get older in Denmark. We will let the money follow the individual • of course continue to pay over the tax and in this way the elderly and their relatives can decide for themselves what they want. It's core welfare when it's best. Schemes in which the municipality searches various benefits, such as nursing home, food and cleaning, must be provided as a direct grant on a proof that you can have yourself, because it is an essential part of a dignified old age that the system does not babble. In free-care homes there is a shorter way from the good idea to concrete action, and this provides better well-being for the elderly. In New Citizens, we believe that there should be free-care homes in all municipalities, which unfortunately is not the case today. When that is the case, it means that the elderly and their relatives do not have real choices everywhere in the country. They will benefit greatly from this with New Citizens' Policy. That is why we are very pleased that it is an overall blue block that has tabled this resolution today, because it is necessary for prices to be transparent so that they can be freely chosen. Not so long ago, there was a big media story that public employees' sosus have an increasing and high level of sick leave. We know from the pay office of the municipalities and regions that the average sick leave for sosu employees in 2019 was 16.3%. By comparison, the absence of sickness from the private operator OK-Fonden, which operates nursing homes all over the country, was only 5.2%. same year. The explanation for the big difference is simple: In the private sector, employees and managers are not subject to restrictive public rules. This is the place where people are organized, instead of the citizens dancing according to the local authority's pipe. We will allow the management of the individual nursing homes, in cooperation with both residents and relatives, to decide, and the politicians and the administration at the town hall should not interfere with that. The pensioners who have not had enough savings for themselves and who have no income next to the retirement pension really do not have much to live for, but with New Citizens' policy the elderly cheque is increased by DKK 12 000. a year. That is quite right, because many of the pensioners who depend on the elderly cheque have not had the opportunity to save enough for their own pension. It is also quite reasonable for us to increase the income pension with prosperity, because the people's pensionists who have laid the foundation for our prosperity today must have a share in the prosperity increase. In addition, we set aside in our 2035 plan 43 billion. kr. to improve core welfare as we grow older and live longer. In short, old age in Denmark must be safe, good and worthy. It requires more freedom, more free choice, and that spending on health and care for the elderly can keep up with developments. We'll ensure that in New Citizens with our plan. This proposal is a very good step on the way to a more free choice and more transparency, and it is just the right way to go. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207163225	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, there are no brief comments. Then we will have to get drunk before we welcome the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr Liberal Alliance. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207163245	Being able to choose freely in Denmark is extremely popular. We know that, among other things. from our well-known old free school scheme. A lot of people have experienced or know someone who has tried that they were not 100 percent. satisfied with the municipal school and instead chose to let the children go to a school which was a free school or a private school. In the open school area, we have a very simple scheme: a national tariff is calculated for what a primary school place costs and private schools offering education receive up to 76 per cent. of the tariff. There is no difference between municipalities here... you just say we have a national tariff. It's not like that in the care of the elderly. There is no national tariff. It is said that the elderly can bring the money from the municipal offer to a private offer. The problem is that the municipality has to calculate what the municipal offer costs, and thus the money that you bring over to the private offer is deeply dependent on how the municipality calculates. And there we have in several cases experienced some very mysterious examples of calculations of what the municipal cost is. Most recently judgment has been passed on the municipality of Brønderslev, because the municipality had deeply underestimated how much the municipal cost was, so that the money sent over to the private offer which the citizen had the right to seek was far too few. The motion for a resolution here seeks to remedy this situation by setting up bodies to ensure that the municipalities count correctly. We support this and that is why we are also co-sponsors of the proposal and it is absolutely necessary. If, in this Parliament, you do not want to have this control over the fact that the municipalities are counting correctly, then we have to move on to the scheme we know from the free schools, namely that we have a national charge for elderly care, and the national rate must then commit the municipalities to pass on to private offers if the elderly chooses a private offer. One of the strangest things you're experiencing in this Parliament is red parties claiming that they're defending the interests of the elderly, but they won't let the elderly choose where to get their services from. I can't believe you're so shameless that you think the elderly shouldn't be allowed to choose for themselves. So, the arrangement that we think is good for children and parents at school should simply not be allowed to get because you have some other interests to take care of. There are chatter posts up and post down on why the red parties are constantly resisting free choice in the care of the elderly. For me, it is quite clear that what the Red Parties want is what Enhedslisten represents most, namely monopolised care for the elderly. They want the government alone to take care of the elderly, because that is what the trade unions in this area want, and that is what the red politicians in the municipalities want. The red politicians in the municipalities do not want to pass money on to private offers; they want to have the task for themselves. And the trade unions in this area, which are also red, do not want their members to be employed in private companies; they would rather have their members employed by the municipality. This is, moreover, very strange, because we are constantly told that public employees have a very hard working life, and it is claimed that it is much better to work in the private sector. Why is there so much freedom of choice which could lead to the creation of more jobs in the private sector, where the elderly go voluntarily, instead of people being forced to be employed by the municipality? There are so many paradoxes in this and so many contradictions on the part of the red bloc that one just has to see that it is a false message that is presented from here. We shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207163745	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Ole Birk Olesen We're bouncing off now, aren't we? ) We do, yes. Ole Birk Olesen There was a period when it was voluntary, but maybe it isn't anymore?). I think it is the President who decides it and I think it is a good idea. Ole Birk Olesen So that's depending on who's president?). I don't know, but I think it's a good idea, so let's do it to set a good example. Then it is the rapporteur of the proposers, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207163810	Thank you all very much for a very good debate, but first of all in the nature of the matter, thank you to the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the New Civil and Christian Democrats for being co-sponsors of this motion for a resolution. I am really pleased that we in the blue bloc are completely united in terms of giving priority to the fact that, of course, our elderly must also have a free choice. And then you might think that the Minister said so in his introductory speech, and I think the Minister said that she had now said not only three or four but five times that, of course, the elderly must have a free choice. But I just have to add that it is not enough to say that, either 3, 4 or 5 or 300, 400 or 500 times, you also have to do the actions that are necessary to ensure that there is free choice. Elections have been free since 2003. It's about to celebrate the 20th anniversary, but this free choice doesn't feel so good these days. Free municipality experiments have been carried out where municipalities are given the opportunity to remove the possibility of free choice, if that is what they want. We hear from a large number of actors in this area that the free choice is under pressure of exactly what we are discussing today, namely that incorrect calculations are being made in the municipalities of what it costs when they provide a service, because that is the prerequisite for what you pay private people to provide a service. I understand from Enhedslisten's rapporteur that for me as a conservative capitalist, the most important thing is just to generate a proper fat profit for a lot of private companies, which they can translate into delicious red wine and sailing boats that must lie in the port. But it's just a sad approach to politics. Of course I wish that when my daughters' great-grandparents receive home care, it comes from someone who gives them good treatment and dignified treatment and who helps ensure a high quality. Of course that is the driving force behind this proposal here. But as long as this underpayment happens, as this professor I also quoted earlier today says is a real bomb under our welfare societies and our entire model of free choice, then we cannot expect there to be free choice providers when we look perhaps just 5, 10 or 15 years into the future. When I have explained this to people, people may think that it is a little difficult and a little technical and hassle, but then I say to them: Try to imagine that you have a municipality, that the municipality is trying to figure out what it costs for them to provide a service, and that the private can see that that figure is completely on the moon, compared to what you pay in the neighbouring municipalities. And then I ask: if you are dissatisfied with the calculation and can sense that something is wrong and you want to complain about it, in other words complain about the municipality's calculations, who are you complaining about? Yeah, you complain to the county. It goes without saying, then, that it is a hat confusion that is not appropriate, and that is exactly what the Ombudsman has also said: that this hat confusion, which exists in several places in the public sector, is problematic. Of course, there must be another authority to check whether the calculations made if a case is raised are correct. Today it takes place in our legal system. That is what happened with the municipality of Brønderslev, and there was the mayor out there afterwards to say: I am actually glad that this case was raised, because it shows how fundamental a problem we have, not only in my municipality but in many municipalities; there is really something to correct here. And he asked KL to engage in it, and I'm glad they asked KL for that, because KL hasn't been able to drive out of the bush in this area before. I have also held meetings with KL, where I have asked about this, not long ago, and there was no willingness on the part of KL to get a job started. Fortunately, after massive political pressure and also pressure from Danish Industry, Danish Business, Selveje Denmark, KA Care, the judicial system and all sorts of others have realised that you have to do something about this, and then you want to create a new guide and a template. Well, the jam jar painted just outside the parliament room here isn't big enough to hold the jam jar we're talking about here. The creation of a new template and a new guide does not mean that there will be a review body. It is going to be exactly the same after the guidance and template comes, namely that if you are unhappy with the municipality's calculations, who can you turn to and complain about it? Yeah, you can go to the municipality. It goes without saying that this is not appropriate. KA Care, who was the one who raised the matter in Brønderslev, has already raised several cases, which are on the way, against various municipalities. But it is not a good thing for the municipalities to spend their resources in legal proceedings. It makes much better sense that if they are in doubt whether their calculations are done correctly, they can take hold of this authority and ask them for help to ensure that the calculations are made correctly. That is why we propose that this independent control unit be set up under the Competition and Consumer Authority, which should be able to take up matters for itself, to which it should be possible to complain, and which should be able to require municipalities to compensate if they have underpaid private suppliers, not because it is a sin for the private sector, but because a legitimate payment is the prerequisite for a free choice and a free choice is the prerequisite for the elderly to have the best product. As it is today, there is no right of appeal and we cannot be served with that. Then a criticism has been made about the financing of this proposal, and I have also heard from the Radical Left rapporteur that if we are able to give funding, we are not opposed to being able to support this resolution, and I am very pleased about that. Right now we are discussing under the second sub-programme 5 million. kr., which is unused funds from a pool for experiments with free choice in the elderly area; there are 5 million. kr., which the Minister has proposed applied in the second context. On behalf of all the parties behind the motion for a resolution here, I would like to suggest that we should use them instead of using them quite clearly to set this new control unit in motion, and then we should ensure that we have permanent funding under a future financial law. But it is certainly the means to start up and get started, and it will also ensure that the money is spent in the area for which it was intended, namely the free choice of the elderly. To conclude, I would like to thank the parties who support, to thank those who co-sponsor, and also to thank the Minister for giving priority to today's time and, for the first time, to acknowledge publicly that we have a problem here. This must be the first step in order for us to be able to do something about it. But I am not convinced that a new guide and a new template from KL are what is needed to really fix this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207164504	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207164521	The debate is open. First of all, we welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207164544	Thank you for that, President. The proposal proposes to shift the treatment of section 7 cases from the Family Court House to family law. This is therefore a fairly fundamental change in the reform of family law. If a major reform is to be fundamentally changed, it will require thorough reflection and heavy arguments in my optics, and it will also require that it be made clear what it is that is desired to change. When I read the proposal and listen to the debate on the House of Families, it is as if there is some doubt as to what a section 7 case really is. The proposal thus states, and I quote, that before the end of the current period of government the Government is required to bring forward the necessary legislation so that the information and decision of Section 7 cases, so-called high-conflict cases, are transferred from the Family Court House to family law. I have to say that it is therefore not right to call Article 7 cases of high conflict. And it's not just word clipping. If you dig a little into the preparatory work, it says and I read again: The cases are complex because of the risk factors that the family is affected by, including among others. high level of conflict, lack of confidence in the ability of the other parent to care for the child, violence, abuse, mental illness and social issues such as alcohol and drug abuse. A high level of conflict between parents does not in itself make the matter complex and cannot therefore in itself justify treatment as a section 7 case. Of course, there may be cases where the parents' conflict is so violent that it is specifically considered that the case can be searched as a section 7 case, but it is important to remember that virtually all the cases that the proposers want moved are not just cases where the level of conflict is high, but cases where there is a great need to focus on the challenges that the family has; whether it is violence, abuse, mental illness or other. With that in place, I would like to say straight away that the government cannot support the proposal, and we cannot do so for three reasons. The first and primary reason lies precisely in the nature of the § 7 cases, i.e. that these are complex cases where the family is challenged by serious risk factors. I am therefore far from sure that the judicial procedure for these cases should be left alone. Immediately it makes very good sense that a unanimous Parliament with the agreement on the reform came to the conclusion that these cases must be dealt with in a multidisciplinary way in the Family Court House before they are sent to the court for a ruling. If the issues that may be at stake in the family need to be thoroughly resolved and if a sustainable solution is to be found for the child, it is important not only to look at the cases with the legal glasses but also to have good children's expertise in the Family Court House in play and that the Family Court House can coordinate and collaborate with the municipality if needed, among other things. to gain common knowledge about the challenges of families so that sustainable solutions can be worked out for the benefit of the child. The cooperation has been strengthened with the reform, and I understand at the House of Family Rights that when there is concrete cooperation in the individual case, it makes very good sense. Finally, it is important to bear in mind that children in section 7 cases can be particularly vulnerable and squeezed, and that is precisely why the children can benefit greatly from the offers found in the special children's unit of the Family Court House, among others. the possibility of getting a contact person. Even though some people point out that court proceedings on these cases will make sense, there are also stakeholders, such as the United Kingdom. Children's Conditions, which points to the importance of special support for children, and that there should be interdisciplinary work on matters. The second reason why we cannot support the proposal is that the reform has only worked for a little over two years and that, due to the under-funding with which the system was born, its first lifespan has been marked by very long waiting times and therefore has not been fully implemented yet. I find it very difficult to argue for a fundamental change in a reform that a united Parliament supported without any more knowledge of the advantages and disadvantages of the new system. Of course, I fully agree that there may be a need to adapt and adjust the reform along the way. That is also why the agreement on reducing waiting times in the Family Court House has agreed that we can discuss adjustments and adjustments on an ongoing basis, and that is why last winter I looked favourably at the offer made by the city court presidents to mitigate the waiting times by some of the § 7 cases being able to go faster in court for a period of time, an offer which I unfortunately ended up having to refuse because the courts themselves are currently challenged by long sentence times. However, when it comes to fundamental elements of the reform, changes should await the evaluation of the family law system which it has been decided to initiate. The third reason why we cannot support the proposal is that it will involve a very extensive change in both the House of Family Rights and the courts. Before the reform came into force, the House of Families worked systematically to make all the new things work in practice, and the focus is on how best to work with the cases. Things are going quite differently than in the old system, precisely because you wanted to work more methodically and systematically than they did before, as those of you who were on our joint visit to the Family Court House in September also got an insight into. The Ministry of Justice has also dealt with the motion for a resolution, since it concerns the courts to a large extent. The proposal places a number of tasks on the judges. The Court of Justice shall, inter alia: undertake to carry out studies on children's cases at all times, and point out the specialization of judges as well as the way in which the cases are to be distributed. The Ministry of Justice has indicated that a fundamental change in the task should be thoroughly identified, and it is also stated that the Court of Justice considers that the instructions accompanying the motion for a resolution are incompatible with the independence of the courts. That is quite a matter of principle, it must be said. In addition, the Ministry of Justice has pointed out to me that the courts currently face considerable challenges with the deadline, which was also the reason why earlier this year, and following the recommendation of the Minister of Justice, I had to reject the offer by the Presidents of the Court to take part in Article 7 cases. When adults who have to protect the child and make sure that it gets through divorce as well as possible, either do not live up to that responsibility and are in conflict or do not have the resources to look after the child, then it is up to the system to step in and support the child as best it can. This requires that there are also adults around the child who not only focus on law and on decisions, but who manage to listen and be a support in all the difficult things. In the debate, it is not often emphasised that it can go just as fast as it is when we decide to change things from here. In relation to the reform of family law, which contains so many good intentions, but which has come off badly because of underfunding, we should listen to the good advice. That is not to say that we cannot adjust along the way, as we do, for example. This was done when we abolished the period of reflection and forced division of residence, when we were brought to the attention of the actors that it was to the detriment of children when conflict levels increased. However, major structural changes, which will even have an impact on the most vulnerable children of divorce, should not be forced and rushed through. That is why the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165236	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165242	Thank you so much. Among other things: I had the Minister in consultation on this very subject some time ago, the Minister was actually open to looking at this, which was also one of the things that was brought in. I can't remember if it was the Lawyers' Society or Danish Family Attorneys who did it, but it was at least when we were negotiating this family justice system. After all, there is now no doubt for any human being that we have a both dysfunctional and very expensive system which simply causes families to be separated and parents to lose their children. Therefore, there is a need to make some fundamental changes now. What is very clearly stated in this motion for a resolution is, of course, precisely that because, right now, the cases are being dealt with in two different places... they are first dealt with in the House of Families and subsequently come to the courts... it happens often and often that these cases either become obsolete or just become ill-judged, and then family law has to start over. That's why it takes a really long time. So this isn't about law; it's about these parents having the opportunity to get a decision so they can move on. Does the Minister not recognize that what is quite the essence of this is that you can get a decision so that you know exactly how this is going to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165358	I do not want to repeat everything I have said in the answer here, but it has to be said that it was a unanimous Parliament which wanted a divorce system in which more than the legal professionalism of the courts could have the children's professional look at, could also ensure that children are protected and could make the interdisciplinary work needed and have contact with the municipalities. I still think it's a completely real system we've got ourselves set up. It is extremely regrettable that it was born as underfunded as it did. There have been the Finance Law parties and thanks to you for this responsibility taken on two occasions and arranged to finance as much as we could in the family justice system, so that this summer we can have the system as it was intended and as it was adopted in broad agreement, indeed in complete agreement in the Folketing at that time. With regard to the waiting times that are currently in place, we have to say that there are also significant challenges at present with the timing of the proceedings in the courts. It is not a question of us simply moving and everything else being equal, I would like to say, because there is a different professionalism in the Family Court House and in the courts. However, there is also a waiting period in the courts, so it does not even solve the problem that the rapporteur points out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165503	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165504	Yeah, it's kind of gonna be okay. At least that is what the professionals who are in this area say it will, because the money comes with it. It is also quite clear in the motion for a resolution that these funds are, of course, being carried over from the House of Family Rights to the courts, and that is not insignificant. That's actually quite a lot of money. But I just have to say that as it is today, it makes very good sense that the judge who has to sit and decide the case is, in fact, also a judge who has the opportunity to talk to the child. So there are a great many things that are already being done in court today, so I simply cannot understand how the Minister can continue to argue against what is quite clearly the right solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165546	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165547	Thank you. But it is if you only want to listen to one side of this. In my speech I did, among other things. explaining that some of the actors who have a lot of focus on the children and how the children get caught up in these difficult divorces are warning against such a rather simplistic approach, which is that things should be resolved as long as you move. I have had an openness to this when we have discussed it, which is why I have also taken the offer of the Presidents of the Court of Justice and considered it, and the system has reversed it, but I have had to say no, also because we have been told by the Ministry of Justice that there are currently considerable challenges in terms of the timing of the court proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165623	Then there is one more brief comment, and that is from Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165628	Thank you for the floor, President. After all, I had called the Minister in the Chamber with an oral paragraph 20 question prompted by the hearing which, among other things, took place. Mette Thiesen and I have set in motion the committee and also Camilla Fabricius. The Minister would not really give a clear answer to what the Minister intended to do on the basis of this hearing. The minister then finished off with the debate and that is actually why I am taking the floor today to say that the Left had not offered anything. Then I could not answer, because I had asked my last question, and now I answer: we have just offered in with some of these things; we have just struck that the fact that section 7 cases are sent directly to family law was one of the measures we could use. In addition to that, I also think that the discussion about what the Minister has to say about children is important. Because you get a quick decision because you pass a case directly on in family law, that does not mean that you should not catch the child afterwards. The Minister can, of course, make all kinds of good proposals for this, and so I have the expectation that we will do so, among other things. in school and in cooperation with parents. Then I asked the Minister last year what we could do, what other measures we could use to dismantle this matter, which had already gone completely off course last year, and there was not really any clear answer. So now it is just once again that I would like to hear the Minister: what else can we do? What other grip do we have to use, since it is not § 7 cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165741	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165742	I have to say to the rapporteur of the Left and we have a meeting again in January that we are, after all, a common circle. The Finance Law parties have secured the funding again, and thank you for that, but we are actually a broad circle of parties behind the agreement here. I suppose that means all the parties present except the New Citizens' Party who are following this very closely and who have agreed on an implementation plan to ensure that we have the waiting times reduced. We, together with the Left, have a common agreement on this. If the Left then says that, in addition to a specific proposal, we have to say that we cannot accept it, because when we look at our judicial system, there are also considerable challenges here with the timing. And I have not heard the Left say that they think it is more important and that these cases should be put in the front line at the expense of all the other important and essential cases running in our judicial system. That is why it is not a real solution when the Left says: we have pointed out a solution; one could just do this. However, we agree with the Left to agree on the implementation plan, which means that when we reach the summer, the waiting times will be at the level provided for in the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165845	Here you go, Mrs. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165849	Thank you. Well, it is precisely absurd that it is the § 7 cases, i.e. the most complex and serious cases, which are the ones that take the longest time. We can see this from an inventory from the first half of 2021. And when there are cases waiting in 5-6, yes for up to 9-10 months for a decision or just for the first meeting of the Family Court House, it calls for us in here to deal with this with deepest respect. Last year I asked the Minister: what else can we do? I would just like to appeal to the Minister to come up with some proposals, some sort of grip we can use, in addition to what the Minister is not involved in.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165924	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207165926	Thank you. But I have said to the Left from day one: my door is completely open if the Left has any solutions that can be done. Together with the Finance Parties, we have been setting the maximum limit for two years. It is three figures of millions that we have set aside every year to get the maximum number of people you can employ and train in the Family Court House to reduce the hump. It is a huge responsibility taken by the Finance Law parties. Left, make some suggestions, and then we'll look at it. I would just like to say that the fact that the most complex cases take the longest time to settle is not really absurd. I think that's a little logical.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170000	Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. There are no more brief comments. I would like to ask the Minister to drink off. Then we should welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur and that is Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go to the rapporteur. There are five minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170023	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are dealing with a motion for a resolution tabled by the New Citizens' Party, which will move high-conflict cases, namely Article 7 cases, from the House of Family Rights to family law. To understand the essence of this proposal, it is therefore a question of reducing the duration of proceedings in high-conflict cases. We agree with that and that is why, as early as December last year, we made a very broad agreement that New Citizens were not included in an agreement which alone was intended to reduce waiting times in the House of Families. However, there are no waiting times or processing times that will be shorter by turning the system upside down when it comes to high-conflict cases. On the contrary, it has the opposite effect, for it is going to hurt the children, and it is going to hurt the parents, and that is not the right way to go. That is why we in the Socialist Group cannot support the motion for a resolution. By the way, I should like to welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they do not support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170123	Wait a minute. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170128	Thank you so much. No, it is clear, of course, that in New Citizens we cannot support an agreement that gives out more money, hundreds of millions, who post money, who are moaning with the Danes' tax dollars in a system that is dysfunctional and does not work. That's logic. We'd rather point out how to change the system so that all these families don't get stuck, so that all these parents don't lose their children, as happens in the current system. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur really believes that it is in the best interests of the child that the child loses one parent. Does the rapporteur really believe that losing one parent is a good thing for a child because of a dysfunctional system?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170219	Thank you for that question. With the introduction of the Family Court House, we simply got a new system that emphasizes the child's well-being very much. It was also one of the things the Minister was so sharp to point out, namely that it is the whole intention that here we are creating a system that takes account of the fact that children are getting out of the divorce in the best way possible. Therefore, it was also done so that one had to go in and assess the individual cases and use the grip on having some educational guidance and having some guidance for the families, and in spite of the fact that it was something said in the Jutland underfunded, it had a really good starting point in the child, and I think that is very worth standing on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170319	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170321	Now a great deal has been quoted in this Chamber earlier, and I can quote: The road to hell is often paved with good intentions. I have no doubt that there were good intentions behind this system, but we can just see and see now that it doesn't work, we can see that there are people who are losing their children very many even. After all, the rapporteur himself took part in this hearing in connection with the family law system, and one of them here I believe that it was the rapporteur himself who assigned her to Mrs Caroline Adolphsen, who is a lawyer and associate professor at Aarhus University, said this very thing about the fact that there was too one-sided a focus on the child and not enough focus on the fact that the child is also part of a family and needs to see his parents. What is the rapporteur's suggestion that this is still being held up when there are actually professionals who say that it is not good for the child?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170411	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170412	Thank you. You can hear that we really do cross blades here, because social democracy is more important to start with the child, and we actually think that this system takes a much more point of departure from the child. It is true that what the rapporteur himself says, namely that there has been under-financing, and there is a large number of people who have actually taken responsibility for the opposite of the new citizens, and that is something we have to observe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170439	Thank you to Mrs Camilla Fabricius. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. There you go, and there's five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170453	Thank you for the floor, President. We are in a very serious situation when it comes to the casework in the Family Court House that is quite clear. It's obvious when we hear the many heartbreaking stories from parents, and not least from children trapped in this system. Unfortunately, we have to recognise that, despite the best intentions, we simply did not hit the nail on the head when it comes to dealing with the § 7 cases. And then it is possible that the cases are complex and serious, but that is unacceptable. There is simply too much escalation of conflict, and the House of Family Rights is in danger of inadvertently contributing to this, even because, at the same time, it is considered without any further consideration that the child per year. the definition of best anchored at the residence parent, regardless of the reason for the housing situation, you can simply assess from the address that it is best and least conflicting during the extremely long processing times to deprive a child of his or her association with a father or mother. And to those of you who have forgotten it, I would say that the association with a parent is also made up of the association with grandparents, friends of the family, uncles, aunts, cousins and cousins, all of whom with a snap are removed from the child's life and everyday life. And it just had to be in order not to escalate a conflict. It is not the child's best interests to lose contact with a parent if it is not because this parent is a bad parent. The Left fully recognises that the new family law system in its entirety can and must work, but right now it does not do so when we look at the long processing times. Right now, children are being held hostage, and we in the Left have been shouting about that for over a year now. As responsible politicians, we must act on the reports we have from many desperate parents. And we must act on the boring results we have obtained from studies of the Family Court House. But we must most act because we know that this can have major negative consequences for children, who have not asked to become the center of a temporary conflict, which unfortunately, I have to say, can end up being permanent; children who just need to be children and close relationships with their peers and have peace of mind to evolve; children who have to play and go to leisure activities without risking feeling guilty or becoming a pawn in a parent's cynical game; children who in their world understand that 2 years of overall processing is an eternity and that this can mean that you lose contact with a parent, for some people forever. That is why the Left also recognises that, although the new family law system can work, we cannot just watch it, while on some rather serious and crucial points it does not work at this stage. Furthermore, we are also listening to the many professionals who recommend directing matters to family law. That is why the Left also supports the proposal and we ourselves have repeatedly wanted us to look at the possibility of passing the section 7 cases directly on to family law. Because we're in an extraordinary situation and we can't afford to stand firm on this point when it's ended somewhere else than it was intended. Not enough was calculated; the correct figures were not provided. Well, we can see that when we're over 50%. 30% That is why, for the sake of families and especially for the sake of children, we need to go back to the agreement and put an end to the morass in which the House of Families has unfortunately ended up at this point. That is also why we in the Left fought for and were included in the last agreement we reached in November 2020 on the Family Court House in particular, that we should discuss possible adjustments, including the possibility of changing the division of tasks between the Family Court House and family law. The children simply must not be the losers because Mom and Dad no longer want the best for each other. We have a responsibility to help these children get clarification. We need to get to the bottom of this matter once and for all, and here is the opportunity to pass matters directly on to family law, that is, a grip that we should use now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170925	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170929	I would just like to thank the rapporteur and the Left for supporting this resolution. I am very pleased about that and it will make a huge difference if this is introduced. I remember that the Left was one of the parties which, together with me, also fought for this to actually be included in the agreement that we were negotiating. So just a big thank you from here for sticking to the fact that this is going to change now. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170956	Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207170958	No, I just want to sign and say in the same way: thank you for your cooperation on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171003	So I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. It is the case that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has just had to leave the Chamber for a moment, so we go a little further in the rapporteur's line and then we hope that Mr. Bent Bøgsted will be back soon enough. Now it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt. Here you go, SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171026	Thank you. I understand that this resolution is being tabled. Because that's one of them. problems, that some cases are prepared in the Family Court House, and then when they reach family law, they have to be dealt with from scratch, because the processing period is so long that a new assessment of the situation of parents and children is therefore needed. However, an analysis should be made of the consequences of this proposal. So we look forward to the further discussion and we also look forward to the Minister's feedback on the recommendations made in connection with the consultation of the family law system, to which the committee has asked the Minister to reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171103	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment, including this time from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171106	Thank you for that and also thank you to the rapporteur. I tried to call the rapporteur yesterday because the rapporteur had written and asked how and how with this proposal, but unfortunately did not get through. But thank you for the positive reception from the SF, and thank you for also acknowledging that there is a need to get something done about this. This was one of the very, very concrete things that came out of this hearing, where quite a lot of professionals actually said quite clearly that this would be one of the things that could be screwed up in the family law system that could make it actually become fairer, at least a step in the right direction, which would also ensure that not so many families were destroyed as it is today, and that there were not so many children who lost their parents. So I very much hope that the SF will stick and that at some point, hopefully during the committee procedure, SF will be able to support this proposal because it is a very right step on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171205	I agree that we need to keep looking at this. It has perhaps become very clear in this debate that there are different views as to whether this can be done. We have some experts at the hearing who say: Well, that's the best thing to do. And, of course, we would like to listen to them. At the same time, however, we have the Minister who says that she has examined whether it can be passed on to family law, and that is where we have come to the conclusion that it will increase waiting times in family law so that this is not possible. So we kind of have to figure out what's up and down in this first. Of course, it is not good enough for us to have a long wait in the judicial system instead. So I look forward to getting a clearer answer to what the waiting time is and what the up and down is actually something a little more concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171259	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171300	Then it is a pity that the rapporteur did not answer the phone yesterday, because then I could have explained to the rapporteur what is up and down in this. Because that is why we are allowing the money and the funds to be kept in line with family law. And when professionals themselves say quite clearly that this is a task you can promise, that this is a task you can do and that this is the only right way to go, I think, of course, that these are the ones we should listen to. Moreover, you have been saying this for a very long time, even when we were negotiating this family law system, where, unfortunately, we ended up simply putting more money into the system as it is today, rather than changing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171333	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171335	Yes, but I must also believe in the Minister when she says that she has examined it in the courts and they say they cannot take the burden on them. I mean, I'm gonna have to look into it more carefully as to what challenges there are in relation to just putting it into family law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171356	Thank you to Mrs Ina Strjer-Schmidt. There are no more brief comments. And then it is the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Christina Thorholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171411	Thank you. There is no doubt that there are problems in implementing the new reform in the area of family law in divorces, it expresses parents and lawyers and, unfortunately, children too. Most recently we have had a hearing at Christiansborg on the family law system, and here came up some interesting recommendations that we think we should continue working on. The aim of the reform was to ensure that the child was taken into account and that the child was put at the centre. The family court established a special children's unit to provide support for children affected by the particular problems of family law. We believe that it is too early to attribute to the reform the diminished satisfaction, as there have been quite major challenges in terms of a much larger number of complex cases than had been taken into account. There have been too few resources to hold meetings on complex cases, which has led to a long waiting period. In our view, therefore, a proper assessment of the impact of the reform on parents' satisfaction and the well-being of children must wait until the coming year, when there will probably be better matching of resources and needs. More resources have been provided and the follow-up of the third quarter shows that there is a reduction in treatment time in both section 6 and section 7 cases. We consider that, in the given situation, children are under massive pressure that affects their well-being, because of the long waiting times and the high level of conflict in some families when matters drag on, and this is unacceptable for children. We have to deal with that. In addition, we are very concerned about the increasing number of children who do not have association with their parents. However, the area of association was removed from the courts and placed in the hands of an administrative system because the courts did not see the proposal to move the section 7 cases from the Family Court House to family law as a proposal to address the dissatisfaction with the Family Court House, but we will wait for the examination, and we will ask the Minister to come forward with proposals to deal with the section 7 cases, according to the recommendations of the hearing that has been held. For us, it is important to assess the impact of the increased funds that have been provided to the Family Court House in relation to the reduction of the duration of proceedings, and we will only see the final effect in 2022, but we think it is good that matters are dealt with in the Family Court House in dialogue and process, and that it is better than that cases are settled in a court of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171707	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is also a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171711	Yeah, but they already do today. They are highlighted in the Family Court House, and then they are settled in family law, i.e. these high-conflict cases, section 7 cases. So what you do with this motion for a resolution is to cut away everything that is in the House of Family Rights, that is, the procedure that is in the House of Family Rights, which takes an extremely long time, and which, in fact, often does that when the matter comes into family law, things are out of date; and quite often they can also see that the matter is not properly disclosed, and then you have to start over. And in all the time that goes by, there is a child who does not see either his mother or his father, which in the end also ends in some cases, unfortunately, with the child losing one parent, because one then estimates that now is so long that the child may no longer be associated with the parent. Frankly, does the Radical Left not think that we have waited long enough and that we need to act now?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171821	The process has lasted too long, but more resources have been added to the effect of this we would like to see. I have some figures that there are 6,750 § 7 cases, and one third of them go to family law. The rest was settled by advice or by closure of the case. So it is a small part of the case that today needs to come to court. By transferring the section 7 cases from the Family Court House to the courts, we are going to burden the courts quite recklessly, because there are, after all, many more cases than those actually dealt with by the courts. I believe that dialogue and process are important and are a better solution for many families than a court going in and making the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171913	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171914	If you get this dialogue with the parents and so on, so that it is not a high-conflict case, then you also have the opportunity to scale down, so that it is not one of the cases that has to go straight to the courts. However, I hope that the rapporteur also agrees that in cases where it is so tense that we cannot have a dialogue and where accusations are being made and where it actually ends up that one person does not see his children for sometimes up to several years, the only right thing to do is to ensure that a decision is taken quickly so that the conflict can be resolved instead of dragging it on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171953	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207171955	But the proposal is that all 7 cases should be taken over to the courts, and that seems paradoxical because only a small proportion of the cases are dealt with there. The burden on the courts of all § 7 cases, where some of them can be dealt with with with advice and dialogue, I think becomes an unnecessary burden on the courts and it does not benefit the child and the family
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172023	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The Socialist rapporteur welcomed from the Enhedslisten, so we will skip them. That is why it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party and that is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172037	That is right and thanks for the floor. Thank you to the new citizens for bringing up the proposal. This is an important area which requires political focus. In the Conservative People's Party, we also follow developments closely in relation to the conduct of the case bumps that have been worked up in the Family Court House. And it should not be a secret that we wonder why the agreement on the House of Family Rights, including the economy of the agreement, has not been implemented, as has been promised in the Ministry when the agreement was concluded. The cause of the great case punk is difficult to see through. For example, is it... poor management or overimplementation? It's still unclear to me. However, there should be no doubt that the long duration of proceedings is questionable and unsustainable for families, and therefore the Conservative People's Party is also included in the agreement reached last year to make a temporary solution and a reduction in implementation for a period of time in order to reduce waiting times in the Family Court House. At the same time, an evaluation of the Family Court House was also made. It is therefore also difficult for us today to support the resolution here, as we have yet to see the outcome of our agreement last year and the evaluation of the House of Family Rights. It would be rather strange to be part of an agreement and then subsequently without knowing the full effect of the agreement running from it and deciding something else in the middle of the period. At the same time, we must also bear in mind that the intention with the House of Family Rights, among other things. was that the focus should mainly be on the child and that there should be a conflict mediation in relation to the parents, which the courts do not perform. So the work to achieve better cooperation and lower level of conflict between parents is lost by simply moving the §7 cases, as is proposed here. The proposal here comes a post office too early in relation to our agreement and evaluation of the Family Court House. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172259	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Here again, Mrs Mette Thiesen would like a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172304	That's really, really too bad. It was also a conservative minister who was in charge of introducing this system, but I do not know whether it necessarily has anything to do with it. I think it is really a pity that you do not want to go in and look at what we were actually discussing when we were negotiating, but where you just ended up putting more money into a system that obviously does not work. The rapporteur speaks a lot about the best interests of the child, does not the rapporteur really believe that it is also the best interests of the child that he has his family and both his parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172337	I think it is important to stress that when this agreement around the Family Court House was made, it was precisely to focus on the child and the child's best interests rather than just a focus on the parents. That's the intention behind this proposal, and that's not what Conservatives are watching. I think it is important that there should be a kind of conflict mediation between parents in the House of Family Rights, which can respond precisely to this rising level of conflict. It is also harmful to the child if there is a conflict between the parents. I just don't think it's the right solution at this stage to do this. We need to see how the agreement we reached last year is going to take place once it has been implemented, and then we also need to make an evaluation of the Family Court House before we can, like ourselves, decide whether it is as it should be or whether something needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172435	Mette Thiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172437	You could also turn it around and ask if it could not be really clever if you started with a decision that, for example, it had to be a 7-7 scheme just to take an example, so you made sure that there was a court decision that the child should see both parents. If there are subsequent conflicts, you could take them with your parents. Because can the rapporteur not confirm me that where the conflict is most often found is in the conflict over who should have the child as a parent of residence and who should be a parent of togetherness, and how, moreover, should the association be distributed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172514	That is precisely why it is difficult for me to stand here and answer whether a 7-7 scheme is the right one or which system is the right one. After all, it is very individual on a case-by-case basis, from family to family and from child to child, what is the most appropriate thing to do. I can't stand here from the platform in the Folketing to decide that. I guess that's what's supposed to be part of the work that's going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172535	Thank you to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the DF. It's sir. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go. Speaking time is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172548	Thank you. It is a bit tricky today, but our rapporteur, Karina Adsbøl, could not be here today because she is attending another meeting. So I have had the pleasure of at least reading the speech. Motion for a resolution B 22 refers to the transfer of high-level conflict cases to family law. The proposal from the New Citizens' Party points to some problems in the House of Family Rights, which I fully agree with. Legal certainty in these matters is a great problem, and the way it is happening today is not good for parents or children. As two lawyers write in a chronicle from January this year, the system actually promotes conflict, rather than preventing it. I can only say that this is also the picture that is being given as rapporteur in this area, with the numerous citizens' requests that I have at least received. The recent hearing we held in the Social Affairs Committee also showed that there are major challenges in relation to the way matters are dealt with in the Family Court House today. That is why we have also called the Minister in question hour to see if the Minister would respond to changes, including to comment on the suggestions made by the participants at the hearing. In addition, the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament has also paid close attention to the length of the proceedings, namely a significant part of the cases concerning the execution of judgments on supervised association concluded by the House of Families between 1 January 2020 and 31 August 2020. Generally speaking, the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament has shown great interest in these matters. He's got, uh... stated that at the beginning of 2022 he will ask the Family Court House to inform him of the processing period in 2021, in certain cases to follow up on whether the actions taken have had the effect that the Family Court House expects. There is good reason for the Ombudsman's interest, because in a survey conducted among 267 lawyers, 50% said that legal certainty is worse today than it was five years ago. We simply have an obligation to rectify this. In the Danish People's Party we do not believe that it should be worthwhile for a parent to make claims or falsehoods about the other parent. We also believe that parent alienation should be reduced. As a starting point, a child is entitled to both parents, and then I fully agree that there may be some cases where the child is best off not seeing one party, for example. by violence or abuse. After all, most cases do not deal with this. This specific proposal relates to the transfer of information and decision on section 7 cases, so-called high-conflict cases, from the Family Court House to family law under family law at the Danish Courts, which at the same time provides the released resources and competences and the released specialisation. We are in favour of this, because we must ensure that families receive the best possible help and that legal certainty is at the top of the list. In the Danish People's Party, we also believe that it is quite unreasonable and harmful for the child when parents are in open conflict about parental authority, and that the level of conflict between parents is very important for the child's well-being and development. In addition, it is devastating for the parent who, for example, is. on a false basis is misplaced and risks losing the right to see your child. So something has to happen, there is no doubt about that. However, there is one thing I would like to clarify. If you move section 7 cases to family law from the outset, how do you feel about those parents who cannot afford a lawyer? In the Danish People's Party we want to find solutions, and we would like to join with a majority in the Danish Parliament, but we can support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172946	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There was, in fact, a question in the speech and Mrs Mette Thiesen has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207172952	Thank you very much to the Danish People's Party. I would just like to make a clarification on the rapporteur's question, because I have, of course, clarified that before. No, it won't have any impact on this. Typically, those who come to the Family Court House today have a lawyer, because otherwise it is a little incalculable, and because it is about the most precious thing you have, namely your child or your children. So no, this proposal is not going to change anything, at least nothing in particular, with regard to lawyers, because it is some cases that would otherwise have gone into family law, one which just had to be elucidated in the Family Court House first.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207173035	Thank you. I am quite convinced that Mrs Mette Thiesen will ensure that Mrs Karina Adsbøl gets the answer that Mrs Thiesen has received there. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207173046	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted, there are no more brief remarks. Bent Bøgsted and there are no more napkins). There are napkins for despriting here. It's so good. And since I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber immediately, it is the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go, the rapporteur has 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207173116	Well, I don't need that much time. Today we are debating a resolution on the family justice system. It won't solve all the problems that are • it would be mouthing off too full because there are massive problems. But that would solve some of them, and I and New Citizens have only just begun to table a resolution to change both the dysfunctional and expensive family justice system; there is enough to tackle. As most people probably know, I've been fighting for a long time for the system to be changed. Too many cases take far too long to settle; far too many cases end up deeply unjustly with the parent who works with Schikane also being the parent who ends up winning the association. As it is today, the most complex cases are dealt with in two places: in the Family Court House and in family law, which are two different bodies. If the child e.g. live with one parent, and the other parent wants association, but is prevented from doing so, then the case can be disclosed and dealt with in the Family Court House. But the Family Court House cannot make a decision; the Family Court House can only inform and treat. And then the case passes to the family court after the Family Court has dealt with it. Family law often finds that what has been elucidated in the Family Court House is out of date or has not been properly illuminated. This means that the matter needs to be clarified again and started over again. In other words, interfaith is treated in two places rather than in a single place. The problem is that the procedure in the Family Court House takes up to 2 years, when the parent may in the meantime cut off the other parent from seeing the child. This has the consequence that family law itself has to start the case again and re-examine it, and in all the time that passes, one parent has not had any association with the child. Even more absurd it will be when family law has to take a decision, because family law will emphasise that during the long period of proceedings the child has gained a greater connection with the parent. This happens despite the fact that the connection can of course be the result of the association chakane from the very parent's side. So the parent of residence, who had the child during the course of the proceedings, can be rewarded in such cases for having practiced the relationship. Or the parent can simply be rewarded by the fact that the case takes several years, when one parent has not had association with the child. It's an absurd nightmare to say the least. In view of the many absurdities, there are several things that need to be changed. First of all, the length of proceedings must be significantly reduced so that it is not possible to win cases by delaying the legal process and thus exercising the right of association during the years in which it takes to settle the cases. This must be done by the fact that, in future, social matters are only dealt with in one place. That is why, with this motion for a resolution, I and New Citizens propose that the House of Family Rights should no longer deal with so-called high levels of conflict, i.e. these complex cases. It should only be family law that both treats and determines them. Secondly, the assessment of parental responsibility, association and residence must take into account who of the parents is harassing or stepping up the conflict. In other words, if one parent is a conversant, the court should take this into account in the assessment of association, parental authority and residence. I fight hard for justice and legal certainty in the family justice system. This will be a small but very important step on the road. It will make a huge difference to the many, many Danes who are trapped in a rigid system that favours the one who creates the conflict, instead of ensuring the best interests of the child, which is precisely to have both parents; unless, of course, there are some very special circumstances in which one parent is particularly unsuitable. I am very, very proud to make this proposal, and I also think it was very clear at the hearing that we had not so long ago that this would be the right way to go. So thank you very much to the Left and to the Danish People's Party, and I would also like to welcome the Liberal Alliance and say that they also support this proposal. Thank you for having the courage to take this step, because it's the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207173621	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211207173637	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 8 December 2021, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
