ParlaMint-DK_20210126130001	The meeting is open. I must point out that in the first sitting here we do not expect a vote. The vote will take place at the next sitting at 9 a.m. 13.20. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs (Kaare Dybvad Bek): Bill no. L 144 (Proposal for a law on the prevention of infection by covid-19 when employers provide accommodation for employees). Employment Minister (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 145 (Proposal for a Law on the Obligation to Secure Covid-19 Testing of Travelling Workers after Entry into Denmark) and Bill No. L 146 (Proposal for a law on the warning of holidays, etc.) As a result of the reinstated wage compensation scheme in connection with the handling of covid-19). Hans Kristian Skibby (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 125 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on equal conditions of competition among online shops). Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 126 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right of young people to receive care while in education). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 127 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the cessation of activities of the Turkish Ministry of Religion on Danish soil). Rosa Lund (EL), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 128 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on bringing Danish children from refugee camps in Syria to Denmark). Kristian Hegaard (RV) and Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV): Motion for a resolution No. Β 129 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the extension of the scope of reimbursement). Torsten Gejl (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 130 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the cancellation of tests and examinations in primary and secondary schools). Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Request no. F 38 (What can the Prime Minister tell us about the government's attitude to political censorship on social media, including whether it is the government's position that large international companies with a handful of top executives should be able to manage who can speak out in the media image and thus participate in the democratic debate?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210126130142	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House, and if no one objects, I consider the consent given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126130152	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126130216	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Draft law on interest-free loans corresponding to reported A tax and labour market contributions in connection with covid-19 B. Draft law amending the Law on collection. The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. We shall then vote on the proposal for a directive referred to in A. 2, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG))? It's agreed. We shall then vote on the proposal for a directive referred to in B. 3, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG))? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law referred to in A goes directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. It has been proposed that the draft law referred to in B be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126130304	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today at 1 p.m. 13.20.
