ParlaMint-DK_20210112131516	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112131521	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112131539	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Henrik Møller. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112131612	Thank you. It can be said that every day the Corona makes its mark, and thus today, when we have to deal urgently with a proposal to suspend the daily allowance by two months, extend the entitlement to sickness benefit and the 225-hour rule by one month, and then suspend the payment by employers of the daily allowance by ordinary work distribution and repatriation during a two-month period. It can be said that at a time when the Corona still has its grip on society, it makes good sense with the bill we are considering today. It is a proposal which is based on the fact that it is also a difficult time and a difficult situation for the unemployed. It can be said that we are doing everything in our power to prevent excessive damage to businesses, and we are doing so in order to try to maintain and maintain as many jobs as possible. In the short term, however, the corona will undoubtedly put its dull tracks in unemployment. It can be said that this unfortunate situation should not be penalised for the unemployed. That is why the urgent proposal makes good sense and, on the part of the Social Democrats, we are voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112131736	Thank you. This did not lead to any brief comments, so we shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Hans Andersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112131749	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to wish my colleagues here in Parliament a happy New Year. 2021 will hopefully be a year when we can finally get rid of the corona and get back to a more recognizable society. Now the vaccines are here at least, and there is light ahead, but winter is also a time when the virus has very good conditions, and with new variations over Christmas and New Year we have had to shut our society down again. And it hits the economy hard and provides exceptionally difficult conditions for those on the edge of the labour market. That is why I am also pleased that a broad majority of the parties in the Folketing agree to extend the initiatives to help our unemployed on unemployment benefits, sickness benefits and cash benefits. For the Left, it is important to stress that we are in an extraordinary situation in which the normal conditions of the labour market have been seriously undermined. And that is why we are giving an extra hand to citizens on the edge of the labour market. And that employers are given a helping hand by suspending the payment of the allowance by ordinary work distribution and repatriation, we also think that is a sensible part of the agreement we have made. After all, we also owe it to the thousands of Danes who have lost their jobs or have a company on the brink of bankruptcy to do all we can to restore the economy and create lasting growth and lasting jobs. We very much wanted to get to grips with this as quickly as possible. But the Left is backing this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112131946	You're welcome, sir. Hans Andersen. There were no brief comments, so I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted has even wiped off the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112132007	Thank you for that, President. Happy New Year. After all, this bill comes at the end of the previous extension of the benefit and sickness benefit law, which means that those who have lost their jobs or who go on unemployment benefit because of the Corona rules can get a few more months, where they are sure that they are receiving unemployment benefit and that they do not get into resource periods where they are receiving sickness benefit. It makes sense. And it also makes sense to suspend employers' G-days, first and second day of unemployment, where there is a division of labour or repatriation due to corona. It makes sense to suspend it. There is nothing to say if both employees and employers are worried about the situation on the labour market there is nothing to say that they want to be sure that they can know what they have to do well with tomorrow too. Having said that, however, we must also say that, fortunately, a great many people are getting jobs, including here during the corona crisis. It's only good, but there are still a lot of people who have been sent home and who don't know what they have to do well with in a month or two how long the restrictions that run in Denmark because of corona, with the decommissioning of the different jobs, goods. That is why it is also important to support both employees and employers in this regard. So it's the three points in this bill that the Danish People's Party can vote for. We are not so enthusiastic about the suspension of the 225-hour rule. We would actually have liked it not to have been here. However, we will ask for the bill to be divided into an A and B proposal, so that the 225-hour rule is included in a separate legislative proposal. I have talked to the committee secretary about this, and I have also asked the Minister to look favourably on the fact that the draft law is being divided. We are in favour of the first three points of the proposal, but in relation to the 225-hour rule, we are just waiting to see if there is any possibility of dividing up the legislative proposal before we take a final decision there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112132234	Thank you. I'm gonna go tell Mr. Kim. Bent Bøgsted, that before New Year's we made a very good collegiate tradition, namely that you just wiped the table for the next one that came up here. We need to take care of each other and not just ourselves. And it went really well for a lot of the meetings and then there was a clean table, and then you could go up and give your speech, and when you walked down from here, you just wiped the table off after you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112132303	It is simply wonderful that the President should say so, because I remember that before Christmas, when I sat in the chair, I was after some who did not. And I would say that it is not necessary to be a member of the Houseworker Federation or the FOA for that reason!). So it is appropriate to be rebuked by the President. But it is rare to be thanked for being rebuked.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112132322	The next rapporteur on the list is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112132330	Thank you very much. This bill comes from an agreement made by a large majority before Christmas. And with the decommissioning that we are seeing around us today, it makes sense that we suspend the consumption of daily allowances, that we give a hand to companies in connection with the G-days, and that we help citizens on sickness benefits and in the cash benefits system. However, I would also like to say that there is another group of citizens who may also be affected by unemployment and be sent out to the labour market that we see today, but where we do not sit together in either the Folketing or the people in the same way and say that we will give a hand to the weakest; that we will help them on the edge of the labour market, etc. It is about the citizens who are in the process of being in employment, among other things. with a view to obtaining a permanent residence permit in Denmark. There are also citizens there who lose their jobs, citizens who have to meet a great many requirements for permanent residence permits and later citizenship. But there's no handshake for them. There we are not talking about the suspension of the rule that means that they must be in employment for 31⁄2 years out of the last 4 years. I also think that it is appropriate, as we have the discussion about helping the weakest groups in particular, to give a hand to those who are hit separately by smoking out, that is to say that we are also thinking of that group. They are not here and have not been there since Corona hit Denmark and the labour market came to look as it now looks. So that was an attention from here, which I think we should also bear in mind, and which I think the government should also look at. But the Radical Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112132529	Thank you very much to Mrs Samira Nawa. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, and Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt comes from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112132557	Thank you for the floor. I am today a standin for Mr. Karsten Hønge, who is SF's labour market rapporteur, and he has asked me to say a few words today. As a start, I'd like to say that this morning I got a text from Heidi. I've been texting Heidi many times during the shutdown. She is one of the Danes who is right on the edge of getting out of the benefit system. She has been unemployed for a period of time and is very dependent on us now giving a little extra time on unemployment benefits, because it is clear that you cannot find a job now. She asked: have you decided that we can now have unemployment benefits for a little longer? Of course, she's nervous about her income. And I could tell her that we have not yet, but that we are dealing with the proposal today, so I suppose it will soon be on the way. It is obvious that at a time when many people are losing their jobs and where there is no job to be found, some people are getting stuck. And this bill is, of course, one that has to hold hands with the employees who are unemployed or ill at a time that is difficult for everyone. And it makes a great deal of sense, when we now also adopt aid packages for companies, that we also help employees who get into trouble. That is why, of course, the SF can say that we also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112132724	Thank you very much to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. There are no brief comments, which is why we will be able to move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten-De Red-Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112132740	Thank you. I will start with the conclusion, and it is that Enhedslisten supports this proposal. But there's almost always one but there's a lot of holes in the way we make these extensions. They are made with different periods • some 1 month, some 11⁄2 month, some 2 months and some 3 months and they do not always overlap in the right way. Of course, in this system, where there is now a 2 month unemployment benefit gap, it hits the people who have been fired in the spring or mid-year, in the same way as it has always done, so they are stuck. It is in the same way with the suspension of counting in relation to getting Karens, there is also a gap of 2 months. In addition, there is also a gap of 2 months, etc. etc. At the same time, we know that there are all kinds of expectations that these extensions of decommissioning will lead to a further extension of this legislation. Would it not soon be a really good way of thinking that they said: now we take it once and for all, and then we go to 31 May or 30 June or something and say that we are now suspending all these counting mechanisms together and at the same time? That would, in my opinion, be very saving in terms of labour in the ministries, and I think they would be happy about that. It would be very cost-effective throughout the administration in the job centres, in the cashiers and all such places, and above all, and that is of course the most important thing, it would mean a great deal of security for the unemployed, who are subject to these rules and who do not have the shadow of a chance to see when they are covered and when they are not covered. I am pleased that the extension of sickness benefit is working and that you will have the opportunity to get a new assessment if your treatment has been postponed and that sort of thing, and I am also pleased that the 12-month period of the 225-hour rule will be extended accordingly. But in concrete terms, I would like to ask you something that I almost consider to be a technical error. The G-days are suspended in March. That is fine, but why is it that at least the minimum payment rule is not suspended accordingly? Because it depends on whether the G-days are paid or not paid. I don't understand. Now, of course, it is inappropriate to look down on the Minister for an answer, so I will not do so, but I will probably put it as a question before we have to deal with the proposal in the second and third stages. But Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112133030	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. However, it is possible to put questions to a minister who is present. So it is possible to have a dialogue, because she will have the floor later today. Welcome to sir. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112133046	Thank you, President. Behind us lies a spring, a summer, an autumn, and a winter... a whole year... where unemployment in Denmark has increased. The main explanation factor is the many decommissionings that have been a consequence of the covid-19 spread. Large and small enterprises have not been able to pay their employees and have therefore had to dismiss their employees. The figures are gloomy and, if any, we have made an effort to keep our hands on Danish business. For without business, no jobs; without jobs, no growth; no growth, no wealth; no wealth, no welfare. The high unemployment rates do not disappear with a spell. They require the right solutions and rates. Public support is not a sustainable way forward, but when Danish industry has no option but to shut down, we must of course support both the industry but also the employee. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112133156	You're welcome, sir. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. Well, that's the ride to sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112133212	Thank you. Just a few misunderstandings: It sounds as if there are no jobs at all in Denmark that there are no jobs available in Denmark. That is simply not factually correct. A quick search of the Job Zone shows that there are 26,900 jobs available, and we also know that a company such as this one. Exactly.com, if we just look at them, hires in great style. If we look at the figures, we can also see that in the last 6 months, if you take figures from Danmarks Statistik from the last 6 months after this big increase in unemployment has actually been a general fall until November. Then we go back to a period of perhaps a little increase, but the whole story that there has been an increase in unemployment since March is simply not factually correct. There was a large peak in unemployment, but then it has been decreasing. Then it may be sensible to help some of the people who are deeply dependent on some benefits, so that they can get over this period, when it may be harder to find a job than it was in the time before the corona, when the economy threw up and there were even more job openings than there are at present. What is important is that, at the same time, we in the Folketing should pursue a policy that creates demand and that makes companies need more people: that we lower taxes and taxes. However, if, at the same time, a policy of increasing taxes and taxes is pursued by the Folketing, then we are working against what we would like to see people get back into the labour market. So it should be a first priority, while at the same time adopting such a thing as this, to ensure that taxes and taxes are reduced, and that is where I think we are failing right now in the Folketing. Where is the economic plan that looks forward so that we get more people into employment? We share the desire to divide it, and then we will have to see if it is done during the committee procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112133424	You're welcome, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. Welcome to sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112133442	After all, we have rules on how long you can spend on unemployment benefits and what you have to do to meet the requirements of being available to the labour market as a cash benefit recipient, and those rules are not, in fact, those set out only for a boom or a normal economic cycle; they are in fact some that apply over a cycle of economics. However, there are some parties on the red side in the Danish Parliament who think that the rules are too tight when you want people to take on a job. Those parties then take every opportunity to say that right now they cannot be so tight, because we are now in this situation. But that is not the way the rules are intended, that is, they only apply when things are going well in the economy. The starting point is that they also apply when there is a decline in one industry such as the United Kingdom. Today, there are some industries that are hard hit by the corona situation of tourism, aircraft, airports, restaurants etc. So we are not in favour of chasing the rules in this way in order to be available and what it takes to obtain daily allowances and so on, as the government has agreed with a majority of parties in the Folketing. We think that this is a rather unspeakable policy which shows that, generally speaking, red wings do not back up the need for proper incentives to seek work. Then the bill here also offers an opportunity for you as an employer to postpone the payment of G-days, and G-days that employers have to pay are not something that has been invented with us, and that is not something that we can see the logic of. So we see this as such a small response to our normal view of why it is actually that employers have to pay for G-days. This makes it a little difficult for us to take a position on this, because on the one hand we are against one half of the draft law, but on the other hand we think that the other half of the draft law is moving in the right direction, so we have to consider with ourselves what we think is the heavier, and then we have to tell you later whether we are voting for or against.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112133709	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, please. This did not lead to any brief comments, and so we have come to the working minister for employment and maternity leave. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112133745	Thank you for that and thank you all for your comments and for accepting the urgency of this proposal. It is, after all, against a sad background of increasing levels of infection and the very highest level of risk of coronasmite in our country. Both the number of infections, the number of inmates and the number of deaths indicate that this is a serious situation and, in order to prevent it from getting worse, a number of restrictions have been put in place. We are in many ways closed down as a country like what we saw in the spring, and on that basis, and thank you for that, a broad majority in the Folketing, together with the government on 16 December, has concluded an agreement to extend a number of aid packages on the one hand and to introduce new ones on the other. It should contribute to this and I believe that it will be possible for employees, self-employed people, businesses and the unemployed to get through the crisis we are facing right now in the best possible way. These are exceptional times, and I am pleased that we can agree to hold our hands under a broad circle in our country. These are the four initiatives in the area of the Ministry of Employment from the agreement we are discussing today. As I said, the current situation and decommissioning are very similar to the one we saw in the spring, which is why the four initiatives we are discussing today are similar to those we introduced in the spring. Regardless of what is said here today, it may undoubtedly be a difficult time for the unemployed to be in search of a new job. This is of great importance to all benefit recipients, not least those who are on the brink of losing their daily allowance. The bill provides for a pause for all unemployed people's daily allowance in January and February of this year. In this way, we are holding hands under all benefit recipients, including persons on supplementary daily allowance. The situation is also of great importance for those recipients of cash benefits who may be at risk of having their benefits reduced if they do not comply with the 225-hour rule. The proposal extends the suspension of the rule until 28 February. This means that persons in the cash benefits system who are covered by the 225-hour rule will, overall, receive up to 4 months extra to meet this employment requirement. In addition, the period of sickness benefit is extended by a further month for persons who are unable to obtain an extension of their entitlement to sickness benefit in accordance with the general rules. This means that no sickness benefit recipient will be transferred to the job clearance process until 28 February. I am sure that this series of initiatives will help to create greater security for benefit recipients, cash benefit recipients and sickness benefit recipients in the near future. In addition, many companies are also in a difficult situation right now in maintaining employees, and with the proposal we are therefore suspending in a two-month period the payment by employers of daily allowances for the first and second day of unemployment, the so-called G-days, by ordinary work distributions and repatriations. Together with the other agreed aid packages, this will help to mitigate some of the major consequences that the pandemic undoubtedly has and has had in the field of employment. Once again, many thanks to the broad majority of the Danish Parliament, which is behind this agreement to extend the aid packages. It's about security, and it's about coming together through this time. Thank you for your support. I look forward to the further examination of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112134132	Thank you very much to the Minister for Employment. There are no brief comments, so we thank you in this round. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112134156	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112134222	Thank you. This is a bill that we have been looking forward to very, very much, because shortly before Christmas we reached a very broad agreement on the framework for the next three years' work with the police. We get more police stations all over the country, both on this side of Storebælt and on the other side. We are getting a significantly stronger response to all that is difficult: fraud, gangs, economic crime, terrorism, social dumping. We are strengthening our efforts, not least in relation to violence and victims of violence, including those who are being raped, which are linked to the new legislation we made about consent. Overall, it is a positive agreement, which is incredibly strong, and which strengthens Danish police, strengthens the prosecution, creates greater security, greater justice, better opportunities to solve crime.I was talking about rape, violence, but of course also burglary, which affects a lot of people. It is clear that it is not all free of charge, because we are also putting more money and more resources to the police. That's 650 million. kr. to the police and prosecutors already this year in 2021. That money has to be found somewhere, and the legislative proposal we are now discussing deals with four elements. Two of the elements, if you have to put it that way, are basically about trying to save some of the resources spent on administration both in terms of accessing accounts, etc. in the case of money laundering and in relation to the disposal of values relating to found goods, which have a very, very small value. And then there are two proposals which are about creating some funding for what I mentioned earlier in relation to the police agreement. One is to regulate the fees in relation to the arms licence, which has stood still for many, many years, and the same in relation to the renewal of passports, which have not been regulated for many years either. These are two minor contributions that help to finance what we would like to see much, much more of: police, the fight against violence and rape, more police stations which also need to look at preventive work and which, overall, must increase security. That is why I would just like to conclude by saying that, of course, we support this bill, and again sign that virtually all the parties of the Folketing, with the exception of the Liberal Alliance and the Left, were united in making a very, very strong agreement before Christmas, where this was also one of the elements. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112134537	You're welcome, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party, which now has a fresh platform at its disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112134557	Thank you. It is the case that our rapporteurs in the debate, Mrs Inger Løbberg and Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, has no opportunity to be in the Chamber today, and that is why I have had the pleasure of being the rapporteur of the Left on the bill. It is quite right, as the Socialist rapporteur said, that this is about the implementation of the multi-year agreement for the police and prosecutor's economy, which has been under negotiation for a long time and on which an agreement was reached shortly before Christmas. And to jump to the conclusion, we think that it is an excellent agreement that lies; not an agreement that revolutionizes things. I think that the Socialist rapporteur may offer ample prospect to those who listen to the debate. It is true that there are some improvements, but they could now also be much greater. However, we would like to acknowledge that part of what we in the Left wanted is reflected in the agreement, and as such it is very fine, but there are also a number of things that we would have liked to have seen were even better, things that might not have been there and things that were different. However, the main reason why the Left was not included in the agreement is the funding. It is, of course, the case that we in the Left have had policy on a tax freeze. We have had this since 2001, and it is the tax freeze that during the time we have been in governments and it has been many years since 2001 that it has not been more expensive to be a Dane; there taxes have been kept quiet. The tax burden has fallen from the world's highest to one of the world's highest. Now we have a new government. That government is pursuing a policy of raising taxes and taxes. So far, decisions have been taken to raise our taxes for 12 billion. kr. More than 30 different tax increases against which the Left is opposed. That's the way it is. No one can be surprised about that. That is why we are also fundamentally surprised that the Minister of Justice and the government did not want to include the Left in this agreement. And not wanting to include the Left in this agreement is, of course, about the source of funding which, among other things, is. is about making it more expensive to be a Dane by raising a number of fees quite significantly. For a hunter who must have a hunting sign, in some cases the tax rises from 400 DKK. for 1,000 kroner, and young people who need a theoretical test are now going to help finance our police. And that would be fair enough if we had no money, but we actually have money to finance a police force without raising taxes and taxes. We must then take down the fact that a majority in the Folketing does not want it; there we will finance it by breaking the tax freeze that we have been on since 2001, and of course the Left cannot agree to it. We are sorry that we and the Liberal Alliance are the only two parties outside that part of the funding, but that is the way it is. That is what the electorate will have to judge when we arrive at that time. So we think the agreement is reasonable. We acknowledge that there are prints from our party. There are some things we have proposed: a police guarantee and other things. We might have wanted more, but that is always the case when we are debating things. What matters here is that we cannot just throw out the policy that we have been pursuing since 2001 with the bathing water, and it would also be unfair to our electorate, even if the government would like to do so. I recognise that it would be convenient for the Social Democratic Government to be able to get the bourgeois parties to break the policy they have stood on, in particular the Left, in relation to a tax freeze. But for that we said: thank you for the offer, but nicely no thank you. That is why we do not support the draft law as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135000	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135007	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that we are one of the parties which is very puzzled that the Left is outside this agreement. We had a very good course of negotiations, but at the last minute there was apparently an ultimate demand from the Left that allowed the Left not to be included in the agreement. I understand now that this ultimate tax freeze demand is something you're going to stand by. I have also learned in the past year that the tax freeze is not so important when it comes to taxes on plastic bags or cigarettes, for example. So can the rapporteur tell us what we, as a civil opposition, can expect from this tax freeze? Because we are talking here about an agreement where less than 4%. As a citizen, we do not really like funding, and then we have to say that with such a massive red majority and with an insanely good police agreement, it is a little difficult to understand that taxes on arms, for example on the Left, are one of the things that should ultimately not be set up and indexed. Can the rapporteur put a few words on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135115	I can do that. I may be burdened by the fact that, despite my young age, I have been in the Danish Parliament for some would probably say too many years, but I will think about that and I would like to tell Mrs Pernille Vermund how to boil a frog. You don't do that by putting it in a pot of boiling water. You do this by putting the frog in a pot of lukewarm water, and then you gently turn it up. After all, this is the strategy of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament for furring the Danes, namely by quietly turning up taxes and taxes. I'm sorry that New Citizens have jumped right in, I don't want to say the trap, but I understand that the Minister of Justice is smiling, because it's the government and the Minister of Justice who wins. I simply do not understand that New Citizens will not stand by the policy that Mrs Pernille Vermund talks about to the electorate, namely that we should have reduced taxes, taxes and charges and that we should not make it more expensive to be a Dane. It's gonna be quietly screwed up. And I'm impressed that the Minister of Justice has brought New Citizens into this deal. But that is the way it is, and then the voters will have to reward us when it comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135214	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135215	It is certainly not the social democracy that wins because we have a good police force, that we get the police across the country, that we have an exit check to prevent thieves from leaving the country with stolen goods without being stopped on the road, and that we have a special unit against social fraud. It is the Danes who win on it. On the other hand, the Danes may also become a little uncertain when Denmark is at present. The biggest bourgeois or nominal bourgeois party makes it the ultimate thing that you do not want to raise taxes on weapons, for example, in order to be part of something that is so essential to our society as a police agreement. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135300	It is also a question of young people, and many of them are among those who have the least incomes in this country who are going to a driving test, having to pay to co-finance the police. I do not really think that is fair. If it were the case that we did not have any money, I could understand Mrs Pernille Vermund's speech, but the government spends money on all sorts of strange things. And if the bourgeois parties had been with the Left, it would not have been more expensive to be a Dane, then there would have been no increasing fees, because then we would have found another funding. I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund and New Citizens should think about this, because if we bourgeois want to move Denmark in a more bourgeois direction, we must start by united on the policy we agree on. It was until this agreement that we had a tax freeze, but we no longer saw that in New Citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135341	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135344	Yes, and I also think that we had a very good course of negotiations, and I am pleased that we reached an agreement with all parties, with the exception of the Liberal Alliance and the Left. But just to follow up on what Mrs Pernille Vermund said, perhaps I do not quite understand that element about the tax freeze. Because, as is interpreted here, including by the chairman of the Left, this means that there is not a single tax that can rise. And then I simply do not understand what the Left has been out to report, for example. in relation to taxes on cigarettes and tobacco. Because if it is the same principle, it would probably not be possible to take that view either. Then there may be a different view in relation to the interpretation of the tax freeze, and therefore there has been some confusion about what the Left really thinks, namely that it is the tax burden and that means that if you raise it one place, you have to lower it somewhere else. That argument could also have been used if you wanted to be part of the police agreement, which you were, to be perfectly honest, part of until the very last second, and which I think you were as enthusiastic about as all of us. So I just don't quite understand what was actually the argument. Is it, then, because the Left has changed policy so that the tax freeze is now ultimate, and that means that in future there will not be a single tax that can rise with the support of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135457	It is not surprising to me that Jeppe Bruus does not agree with the left tax freeze. For Mr. Jeppe Bruus represents a party that has no problem with taxes rising. And I'm just saying that that frog that's sitting up in the Socialist pot is going to boil, and there are some citizens who are going to pay for that, and at some point they're going to say stop. But so far one has to take it down, that one cannot see it on the support of the Social Democrats and that the Danes would like to pay a lot more in taxes, but I now hope that they will come to their senses. I can say that the Left's tax freeze is formulated by Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen, and there are both on the Left's website and in fact also on the Danish Treasury website, I think a fine formulation of the tax freeze. There are then some exceptions to the tax freeze, and that is in relation to the EU and then environmental and health. But none of these things are true, and therefore there is nothing So, no one can be in doubt that this funding cannot be accepted by the Left. It is precisely because we do not have the right to vote in local elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135556	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135558	But I guess that's not exactly true. I mean, we've been involved in making a housing tax agreement where taxes are rising for homeowners. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen is a former tax minister. So that is not quite right, that is, the fact that there has been a straight line between the tax freeze that was in 2001 and looking forward to now. And it is not because we are happy that the tax should rise, but it was because there was a need to have a comprehensive agreement on housing. And then there have been all the reports from the Left about taxes on cigarettes and all sorts of other things. So I regret the confusion, but I simply do not understand it, because one could have taken a different view, which was that we would be helping to raise the taxes on arms permits and on the renewal of passports, and then the Left could have put forward a proposal to lower the tax somewhere else. But that was not the case, and that is why I just ask: shall we understand it this way and so I understand it now on the Left that the tax freeze means that there is not a single tax or tax that can rise in the future with the support of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135653	After all, the agreement does not say that the tax and fee increases that lie in it should be neutralised anywhere else. It would not be social democratic policy either. And I'm gonna have to correct Mr. Kim. Jeppe Bruus. I helped make the agreement on housing taxes myself. We did this together with the Social Democratic Party, and we had a very good and constructive negotiation process. I would like to sign for that. However, overall housing taxation is reduced by 10 billion. kr., I actually think. So it's all a lowering. And, yeah, when you're all down, you can change. But if you accept and we do not accept in the Left that you go in and set up fees, taxes and charges without compensating, then you break our tax stop, and this has been the case since 2001.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135736	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135740	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. And on the part of the Radical Left, it must also be said that we missed and miss the Left in the agreement, but at the same time we would also like to thank the efforts made by the Left in the time when we were involved, among other things. It was something I know also meant a great deal to the Left. So thank you for that part. I understand, then, that there is a resistance from the Left against, among others. I would just like to ask whether it is more important for the Left to prevent inflationary regulation of arms charges and passports than to be part of large and broad agreements such as this police agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135826	Well, I don't think what the agreement says now I have just read it before the treatment here is that it's just an inflation regulation; it's an alignment of a number of fees, where some permits that today cost 400 kroner will cost 1,000 kroner, and that's a very, very massive increase. It also says directly in the agreement that if you are a young person who, in connection with the licence, has to take a theoretical examination, you will have to pay 200 DKK. to fund more policemen while there are plenty of other places where we just spend money. And I simply do not understand why the Radical Left or the government did not agree to say that we would save a little more on Su spending on foreigners, which is also included in it. If you turned it up a little, you would have included the Left in this agreement, but you wouldn't, and that's of course because you wanted us to pay the price and break the policy that we've stood firm on since 2001. It's a good try, and we thank you for the offer, but thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135917	It would not be wise at least not to propose to the Radical Left that further savings should be made in the sugar sector. So that part of the Left's proposal would be very unwise. But the question remains: is it more important for the Left to prevent inflation from taking place, such as in the United States? In the case of arms charges, have not been since 1990? Is it really more important to prevent inflation regulation of it and of passports than to be part of large-scale agreements? And what does this mean for the participation of the Left in large, broad agreements in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112135955	What is important to us is that when you go in and charge a fee in principle and that fee can finance an expense and there you have to look at what it costs to make a passport, and then there is an expense to it, so, when you go in and say that it costs 200 DKK, I think it is, in connection with the theoretical test or driving licence, and that it has to finance the police, you open a barn gate to make it more expensive to be a Dane; you raise taxes and taxes. And then maybe you could say it's just 200 kroner, but again, the frog's bubbling in the pot. This does not mean that we do not want to be involved in major agreements, but it means that we stand firm on our policy. And I think that's what our constituents expect from us, as Mr. Kristian Hegaard's voters expect the Radical Left to stand firm on their policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112140051	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112140054	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very well-balanced speech. I also think that the rapporteur has mentioned some of the good things that are included in the agreement, such as more police officers, the reinstatement of the travel team to solve homicide cases, and new weapons for the police. In fact, these are some good measures that we also count on the Left to support and agree with. Now we come to a process over the next few years, where you have to translate all of this, and where the police and the police come back to the conciliation circle and say: We would like to do it and that way; now there's a challenge with the near police station x-- we'll also get a number of new near police stations so how do the conciliation circle feel about this? I think I would say that we in the Danish People's Party would like the Left to be involved in this work as well. That is why I would actually like to make a request. Despite the fact that there are, of course, differences of opinion on funding we would have preferred to have seen a different funding than this one as a whole, it was not an idea to put it aside a little and said: okay, we are in anyway, because we want to help set up the police of the future for the benefit of the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112140208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112140209	I totally agree with Mr. Simpson. Peter Skaarup in. I would also like us to be involved, but with the funding that the government has placed on it, that was not an option. And it's actually nothing new. Sir. Peter Skaarup and I were both involved when we negotiated the criminal justice economy under a previous government, and finally, when we had done all sorts of fine things about better conditions in prisons, not for the inmates, but for the employees, the Social Democratic Minister of Justice, who is the tax minister now, put funding on the table, which made it quite significantly more expensive to be a Dane, and then we took our good clothes and left. So this is something that the Socialists are constantly trying to do, that is, that they say: we are making a fine deal now, and the bill is so simple that you have to break with the policy you have stood for. And I understand that you are trying, but on the other hand, I would ask you to understand that we are not going to jump in that pot at least. But yes, we would have liked to have been there. However, I have now been in the police conciliation circle, and whoever has the greatest influence on how things are implemented is the Minister for Justice, and there are not so many things that the conciliation circle is being consulted on. I therefore believe that both we and the Danish People's Party survive, that we are not there. But yes, we would have liked to have been there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112140318	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112140320	Yeah, of course we're gonna survive, and it's gonna work, but I still think it might be a good idea. But I fully agree with Mr. Karsten Lauritzen in that the past can sometimes scare. I think we both remember a former minister who suddenly came and said: now we have to fund prison places by saving people's teeth cleaning. We were a little out of comprehension about that, and I do not know whether that sum has ever been realized; it is probably not. But whatever it was, it was the commandment that came back then. I think that what came here was better and was quite well, and that is why we chose to join, also because we think that it is so important to have more policemen, with new weapons, with travel teams and all that. That's why I'm actually just hoping that you can think about that... that the Left is gonna be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112140409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112140410	Yes, but it can be said that, together with the Liberal Alliance, we are outside, and that also provides a platform for thinking something other than that of the parties to the agreement and conciliation, which is why I believe, without prejudging what the rapporteur on the left would say, that we will also be pursuing an active legal policy and taking an active position on how to get a better police force. And it may also be that we are putting forward proposals on how to do it even better than what actually lies here when we are not bound by the agreement. But I wish we had gotten to each other, but we haven't, and that's the way it is. That is sometimes the case in politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112140446	Thank you, sir. Karsten Lauritzen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party, as if he could enter the platform in a moment. Karsten Lauritzen We are running out of alcohol wipes, President). Yes, a supplement for despriting is being considered. I wonder if the paint can hold. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup; the platform is his.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112140524	It's a good thing the President keeps things under control. After all, we are now dealing with L 132 and it is a proposal made by the government and it is a proposal that represents what a broad majority in the Folketing has thus agreed, as we have said, namely that we need a better police force and we need more police officers. We need 450 extra police officers here in the first place, and for an already pressured police force with constantly new challenges, it is actually reasonable to have some more colleagues to take care of the tasks that lie ahead. It is no secret that the Danish People's Party would have liked to have seen even more police officers, and we will continue to work for that. Should we have decided completely, there would have been more police officers, but it will have to be next time. This is what we could come to an agreement on this time. Then the agreement will also restore the Travel Team, which, with some special skills and experience, can help solve serious and advanced crime throughout the country, but not least the killing cases, where I think it has been shameful, including for us politicians in here, to see that there have been cases in which people have apparently made mistakes and where it would have helped to have had a travel team. Fortunately, that is what we are getting now, and that is a good thing. Then the police get brand new weapons so they can match the crime picture we're looking around, and not least the criminal gangs you need to be able to match. We have some criminal gangs that are deeply advanced and that are constantly trying to outdo each other in their conflicts with the best weapons and the best methods of arming, and it is clear that here, of course, the police must have weapons that can match the criminals; that goes without saying. Then we will also retain a success as we think the riding police is: the riding section. All this costs money. Of course, it costs money, and some of that money is then secured through this bill. This is done by optimising police work processes in relation to financial crime, among other things. money laundering cases. The right to have arms and the issue of passports is regulated and then the element which the Danish People's Party was very aware of during the negotiations is that we thought it should be done, and that is what people's pensionists are doing when it comes to passports. We are, of course, very satisfied with this, because we do not think it would have been right for pensioners with a hard and depressed economy to have to pay more money for it as well. On the other hand, we think it is okay that many others can contribute by paying a little more for the passport you shouldn't have so often. And then you debureaucracy the finder's estate. These are not some things that are totally deterrent to the Danish People's Party in relation to funding, and there are also a number of other things that I have not mentioned here. Our priorities have been that we get a solid, we get an optimal and we get a modern police force that can help to raise the safety of Mr. and Mrs Jensen, something very dear to the Danish People's Party. We can easily live by setting the price for some of these individual services, provided that we get the other way, and we intend to keep a very close eye on this during the negotiations, and I think other parties will, in other words, keep an eye on the fact that we are getting something delivered for the investment we are making here for the sake of the Danes' safety and security. That is, of course, what we are set up in the world for as members of parliament to be able to deliver, and it is certainly not too much to ask for us to implement an agreement here that will ensure that we have more security out there and that we get the police closer to the citizens. So all in all, it is a good deal that we can support in the Danish People's Party, and it is also a good bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112140929	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup, there are no brief remarks. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard of the Radical Left. Welcome here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112141009	Thank you. First of all, thank you once again for a broad police agreement in favour of the Danish police and prosecutor's office. The draft law here deals with the tax and simplification measures resulting from the police agreement, which is why the Radical Left, of course, supports the bill. First of all, the draft law contains a proposal to simplify police access to information, such as financial companies etc. hold so that the police will in future be able to decide on the issuing of information from banks and other financial companies without obtaining a court order. It was probably not an action that would have been taken if the Radical Left had had 90 seats. Not all measures are fully euphoric when a broad and important agreement is reached. Then there is inflation regulation and simplification of the tax rates in the area of arms. This may result in fewer weapons being put into circulation in the future, because the additional weapons that you have are no longer being reduced, and we are now also regulating the rates for future prices and salaries, which they have not been since 1990. Thirdly, we are now calling on the Danes to take extra care of their passports. There are security reasons and reasons for this, but now there are also economic reasons for it for the individual. For this reason, there is an inflationary adjustment of the fee rates for the issuing of passports and a doubling of the fee for cases where passports have either been lost, i.e. where they have not been properly taken care of or where the passport is shown in damaged condition. Finally, there is a limitation of police duties and simplification in relation to found goods. We believe that the police's resources can be used better than to manage the Danes' forgotten things and things. If you have forgotten your things, you must be out in the hotel or other place where you have forgotten them, and that is within the first 30 days. The reason why we have these various financing measures is, of course, that there were a large number of good new measures with the police agreement that has been concluded. First of all, legal certainty is strengthened by optimising the criminal proceedings chain through, among other things, the provision of information. an investment in the prosecution, which has been very, very under pressure in recent years, in which they have simply not been able to keep up with the huge piles of cases that have been committed. That is why it is a boost to the prosecution, which actually started with the Finance Act concluded in 2019, where it was a great desire of the Radical Left to invest in the prosecution. And then we're going to keep that lift permanently, and then we're going to add something else. Then it is also a boost to legal certainty that we strengthen, in particular, rape victims and the position of others at risk in the judicial process itself, both in terms of continuing to train the people involved and in terms of paying particular attention to the area, which has not been shown before. And then this is also a police agreement that gives priority to efforts for children and young people. There are, among other things: Attention is paid to the entirely new digital violations that are taking place on an all too increasing scale and that there is every reason to put their heels in front of them. It is almost weekly, after all, that we take a stand on some of the terrible things which, unfortunately, are mostly affecting young girls and children. There is now attention to this, i.e. how we can convert the criminal code to it, and we need to look into that. Then the Radical Left is also particularly pleased with the efforts that are being made to stop the sale of drugs, especially in educational and school areas where children and young people are travelling. It is a vital effort to prevent young people starting to take drugs, to put in places where it may be easily accessible. So thank you once again for a broad settlement. Radical Left votes in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112141442	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments on the proposal. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112141500	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the fact that it is a pretty good police settlement that we have been created here. It's probably the best thing I've ever done, and I've tried a few anyway. Many of my fellow Members have, of course, highlighted what are some things that are really good about this police settlement, and I must say that we are particularly pleased with more close police, more police officers and, above all, the special units for combating partner violence, rape and stalking. I think this will be a really, very important tool, both in terms of meeting the victims better, but also in terms of getting the consent law to live. In relation to this legislative proposal itself, I would just like to start by saying that, overall, I think that the tax increases in the area of arms and the environment are sensible. Some of this is about simplifying, and some of it is about adjusting the price, which hasn't been in 30 years or so. And then it makes very good sense to take the starting point for increased digitalisation in certain areas of the police for permits, just as debureaucratisation of the finder's estate is also something that makes a great deal of sense. So I'm not going to spend so much gunpowder on that, but I'm just happy that hopefully this will also lead to police forces being used better with these proposals here. What I want to say more about is the proposal on edition, which, I think, is also the most important part of this bill, because it is actually one of the rare proposals in which the SF goes the other way and now recommends that you do not use the warrant anymore, for example. when the police need to have account information from a bank or the like. Because there we have seen how economic crime is growing massively. It's big stuff and it's small stuff, and it means that when you sit and investigate this and work with this, you have to make a lot of editing orders, and it takes a lot of effort from the police, who could honestly have used those powers a little better. I know that some of the courts, and also the Court of Justice, believe that this will lead to less legal certainty, because there will then no longer be an automatic judicial review of judgments, and in principle it is also true, but since the decisions are almost always given, and there is a similar arrangement in Norway that is well-functioning, and since the banks in practice never have any comments on it when they provide this information, it seems quite frankly also a bit like paper for paper's sake, and that is why I think it can actually be defended, even if it may give the Minister for Justice's teasing remarks in future when we are going to discuss cases where the Minister wants to depart from the use of court orders, because this is actually something that we are very concerned about SF. On the other hand, there is the legal certainty in the proposal that the matter can be brought before the courts very easily, and this can easily be dealt with as affected by the intervention, if you wish. So it is not the case that we throw out legal certainty completely with the bathing water. However, to illustrate the time spent and the process, I would like to read briefly from an e-mail that I have received from a policeman who is actually dealing with this and is investigating some of the many cases of financial crime, and he says that some of what is being used very much by criminals is MobilePay, and you must always request the account information that is behind that mobile pay number in order to determine who has received some money improperly or has fraudulently. He says: It is something that makes my daily work very bureaucratic and it greatly prolongs the processing time, because then you have to write up for an edition order every time you need an account number that is attached to a mobile pay number. The case must be physically copied in three copies and then sent to the prosecution. Afterwards, the prosecution shall examine the case and, if they consider that there is a lack of information, the case shall be referred back to the caseworker, who shall make the corrections requested, and the case shall be referred back to the prosecution. After another case examination and if no further corrections are requested, the prosecution will now forward the case to the court. The court will then have to take 2-3 weeks and then forward the decision to the prosecution, after which the decision will be passed on to the caseworker. If the court has given a positive undertaking to provide the requested information, I will forward the order to MobilePay, after which I will receive the requested information, i.e. the account number. Then I have to write to SKAT about who the account holder is when I finally received the number from MobilePay. Even relatively small cases where an injured person may have paid kr. 300,00 for an old PlayStation and never received it will take quite an unreasonable amount of time to do so, not to mention large case complexes involving many mobile pay numbers and many account numbers. I can't help thinking that a perpetrator can at least make a lot of new cases while time goes by, and that's no good. Against this background, the SF can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112142030	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten, the Red-Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112142044	Thank you. For the first time ever, Enhedslisten is part of a police agreement, and I am personally very proud and happy about that, and I am, because it is not just any agreement, but it is an agreement with some very clear Devicelist images. That's why Enhedslisten, of course, is also voting for this bill; everything else would be a little bit strange. After all, the police agreement has ensured some extremely important improvements for people who are particularly vulnerable in our society and who will experience greater legal certainty. These are people who are subjected to hate crimes, people who are subjected to sexual abuse and online violations. We need the increased focus to ensure that these people also experience that they live in a constitutional state. There is a need for this to be taken seriously and for a clear signal to be sent, and we do so with the police agreement. Well, then, we think it's really good that there's a focus on education with this deal when the police handle these rape cases. That is why we are very pleased that, at last, I would like to say that priority teams are coming in all the police circles and that we are strengthening the fight against rape and violence in close relations. Compared with the implementation of the consent law that we made last year, I think this is a perfectly natural follow-up for it to work. I'm incredibly happy about that. The increased focus on digital violations and the provision of more resources to the area, I am sure, will help create a safer presence for both young people and adults who are exposed to online violations. It is a misunderstanding that this is only happening among young people, but unfortunately there are also a great many adults, especially women, who are being subjected to violations and harassment on the Internet. Just as hate crimes for many years have been under-priority with the police, so this police deal will change it. After all, we in the Enhedslist would have liked us to have set aside even more money and resources to combat hate crimes, but we are glad that we are now working together to combat hate crimes so that our society will be safe, no matter what sex, whatever skin color, religion or sexual orientation one has. At the same time, the police conciliation also places more resources on the support of the victims, and with the police's work on investigating, we have also got more close police, and we are very happy about this in the Enhedslisten. It's a gross misconception that we in the Enhedslist don't like the police. We just think that the police should do the right thing, and some of what we think is right for the police to do is do the preventive work, and that is exactly what a near police can do. We would have liked more local police stations in socially vulnerable residential areas. It didn't succeed, that's the way it is. We're really glad that with this deal you're getting more close police. After all, the draft law deals with funding, and I think it is important to take part in it for the sake of history that the government had first proposed that the money for this agreement should come from the field of education. This has been abandoned, and I think we have a very good compromise here. I think it is very good that some price and wage adjustments are being made, and it is clear that if Enhedslisten himself had had to finance this agreement, we would probably have found the money somewhere else. However, I think that this is a very good compromise, which we can at least measure up to in the Enhedslisten. Finally, I would just like to add that I am very pleased that we have strengthened our efforts and, above all, the scope for action to combat social dumping and money laundering. We really have been missing that for a long time. I think that the biggest social fraud that is being committed is when banks and others get away with laundering and cheating on all of our tax dollars, which should have been spent on something else. Perhaps I should also add that the Independent Police Prosecutor's Office is also being strengthened with this, and that is also one of the things that is important to us in the Enhedslisten. It's just to get back to this thing about us having a hard relationship with the police. Well, we think it is very reasonable that there is good control of the police, and we are also strengthening that in this agreement, and I actually see that, following on from the fact that the police have been given ID numbers on their uniforms, we must also discuss body cameras issues. But I think that's another discussion. A long story short: Enhedslisten can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112142522	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I want to know if Mrs. Rosa Lund will wipe the table for the sake of the next one. The next one is sir. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. Thank you so much. Welcome, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112142549	On 15 December last year, we concluded an agreement with the government and a number of parliamentary parties on the police and prosecutor's economy for 2021-2020. It's a really good deal. It ensures more officers and helps ensure the safety and security of the Danes. The safety and security of the Danes is a key issue for the Conservative People's Party. Now the police are moving even closer to the citizens with 20 new local police stations and 450 additional police officers. As my chairman and former Minister of Justice have expressed it on the day when we made the agreement quote: "This is a bad day for the criminals and great for all of us! I can only agree with him on that. In addition to extra police officers, the agreement also means better help for the rape victims, and that the travel team returns to large numbers, which we in the Conservative People's Party are very pleased with. The parties to the agreement agree on the financing of the agreement. This specific legislative proposal aims to implement that part of the funding in the field of justice which requires changes in legislation, including, inter alia: inflationary regulation in the area of arms, where rates have not been regulated since 1990. There is a debureaucratisation of the finder's land and an inflation regulation for the issue of passports. The Conservative People's Party always welcomes the de-bureaucraticisation of the public sector in order to improve the service that citizens receive in meeting with the public sector. In addition, it makes good sense that a number of the tax rates described are consistent with the trend in inflation. All in all, the Conservative People's Party is very pleased with the agreement, which is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112142755	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments, and that is why we shall shortly move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112142814	Thank you. On the eve of Christmas, we concluded a very good multiannual police agreement, an agreement which will strengthen police action over a broad spectrum for the next three years and which we in the New Citizens are quite happy with. With the agreement, we are starting to decentralise the police and re-open 20 police stations around the country. It is only the beginning, and in New Citizens we would have liked to have gone further in this direction and secured an even stronger local anchoring of the police. But now we are turning the tide so that the eternal centralisation, which for too many years has moved police resources away from the smaller cities and towards the capital, is broken. That's good. New citizens have been included in the agreement that in future border controls should not only be a control over who goes into the country. There must also be an exit check at the border. Foreign thieves have been able to drive out of Denmark in vans filled with stolen goods for years. They must now be found and stopped before crossing the borders with the Danes' possessions. In addition, New Citizens have succeeded in persuading the government to set up a special unit to solve social fraud. For me and New Citizens, it is absolutely crucial that the new special unit should be used to expose the rather massive fraud involving public services, such as: is carried out among immigrants and descendants. Today, these cases are hardly ever investigated, and almost no one is convicted. I am convinced that when there is a hole in the boil and you see from the authorities how much money is being defrauded, that special unit will be strengthened and expanded simply because it is a good business for the state to have fraudsters exposed and the money returned. The next step will be to amend the Aliens Act so that the social crooks among foreigners will have their verdict followed up by a consistent expulsion of Denmark. I and New Citizens would prefer that no foreigners were allowed to live on public support. The least you can ask of travellers is that they support themselves while they are here. But when they cheat even more, the hammer will fall, and they will go out without warning. The law amending the Code of Procedure and various other laws that we are discussing today are intended to implement that part of the funding in the field of the Ministry of Justice which requires changes in law. The bill contains four parts. Two are concerned with savings and two are concerned with increased government revenue in the form of simplification and inflationary regulation of taxes. In the field of money laundering, it is proposed to simplify police access to information, such as financial companies, etc. is in possession of, in order to save precious processing time in the large number of court orders which today often have to be sought in cases relating to financial crime. In the field of arms, inflation is proposed and tax rates are simplified. In the field of finder's goods, the bill contains a change which means that in future it is only found items of special value, including money, particularly valuable jewelry and other valuable items to be handed over to the police. Other found items found in public institutions, amusement parks, shops, public transport, airports, hotels and similar places must be stored in the place found for at least 30 days and if it is not collected by the owner then it can be sold, put into service or disposed of. Finally, the draft law provides for an inflationary adjustment of the fee rates for the issue of passports other than for persons who have reached retirement age and a doubling of the fee for the issue of passports to applicants who cannot present a valid or expired passport on renewal or issue. This means that people who today throw away their passports or, worse still, sell it to others will in principle be fined. They will have an extra charge, and we are quite comfortable with that. In New Citizens we see the overall agreement as a good deal, as mentioned earlier, a deal that gives the Danes more and a better and more decentralised police, a police that in future will have more opportunities to catch foreign criminals and solve serious crimes. There is no doubt that there are parts of the total funding that have not grown in our backyard, just as there are essential parts of the original financial legislative proposals that we are really glad we have got out of the agreement. But overall, this is a very good agreement and that is why we are voting in favour of this funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112143317	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112143352	Thank you for the floor. It's not like we in the Liberal Alliance think this is a really, really bad deal. This is an excellent agreement on the police and prosecutor's office, which we also helped to negotiate a long way along the way. For many years Denmark has had the smallest police force in Europe when it is compared to the population, and compared to the world in which we have come to live, it is unfortunately necessary to have a larger police force. That is regrettable, but it is also necessary, because there are no States that are taking up their task unless they are able to enforce law and order and the monopoly of legitimate violence. We also like the elements of decentralisation that are in the agreement, and the same applies, for example. the increased focus on combating antisocial behaviour. It is not acceptable for the few to destroy a community for the many. We must take action against this. So when we cannot support the agreement, it is because of the funding. It should not be necessary to increase the tax burden in Denmark, because it is already the highest in the OECD and thus in the free world. And that also puts the political dispute in Denmark in an interesting perspective, because for a period of time, as a result of the previous government, we went into second place, and I also think that for a single year we were in third place, and now we are back in first place again. So what we are arguing about in the elections, I just want to say to information for the voters who are watching is what podium space Denmark should have in the competition for the world's highest tax burden. The blue side will have second/third place, the red parties will have first place. That's where we landed. In fact, the Danish state has better money and the opportunity than any other state in the world to feed itself. That has been chosen not to do so, which is why, unfortunately, we cannot support the agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112143615	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. There are no brief comments either. And thank you for getting ready for me to welcome the Minister of Justice to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112143640	Thank you for your comments. In fact, I think there is a good reason to be happy just for a moment, because there are so many of the debates that we have here that are important and fundamental and right, and where words are exchanged and opinions are broken and all that, but often you don't really think it leads to anything. At least there are long perspectives before something sort of comes out of it. But what we do today matters. It's something right that's going to make a difference out of the real world. That is where you actually lay the foundations for there actually to be 20 places in the country where you will see a near police station coming. You will see that 450 new police officers are coming over the coming years in Denmark; that our police, as others have also pointed out, are getting new weapons and becoming more capable; that we are getting better at combating complex financial crime; that we are getting a police guarantee; that we have strengthened our efforts towards digital crime and everything else. Various parties had to mention some of the things that they think are important. When we do this, it means something. Then it's not just talk, then it's reality. That is what matters on the other side, and therefore there is reason to welcome it. This police agreement means, as was mentioned, that this year, in other words the year we have now started, the police will have 650 million. kr. more available than the police had the year we left. And when we reach 2023, the extra amount available to the police is 1 billion. kr. more than what is available this year • 1 billion. kr. to do new things, solve new tasks, get better hold of the criminals. That's not a bad thing. Then there have been, and I understand that, and I know of somebody who has been involved in it, long discussions on these individual elements of funding which, unfortunately, mean that the Left and the Liberal Alliance cannot be involved. I think it was Mrs Pernille Vermund who had calculated that it amounts to about 4%. of the total amount that is probably correct. If you look at the law of the large numbers here, far, by far the largest source of funding is the room for manoeuvre. With the finance agreement that's been made, they're about 9 billion. kr., which will be added to the police over the coming years compared to what was the starting point of the financial laws, then they are about 7 billion. kr. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the European Fisheries Fund for the period 2014 to 2020 under the European Fisheries Fund for the period 2014 to 2020 under the European Fisheries Fund for the period 2014 to 2020 under the European Fisheries Fund for the period 2014 to 2020 under the European Fisheries Fund for the period 2014 to 2020 under the European Fisheries Fund for the period 2014 to 2020 under the European Fisheries Fund for the In other words, we have it, I think, fine, but also perhaps a little different, that it is actually the Finance Law parties, i.e. the red parties, that carry the large part of the funding to the table. Everyone is involved, and that is why everyone takes responsibility for it, and it is good and it is as it should be; but it is in fact on the financing side a little that is going to divorce, and it will then be the principle. It is also true, as has sometimes been said, that there have been funding elements which were within training savings and other elements but which have been taken out and negotiated away to find room for new ones for us to meet. It was produced a little, unfortunately, by the rapporteur of the Left, as if this were a maneuver that was made, just like shutting out the Left. I believe that all parties will be able to confirm that we have had a good course of negotiations; that we have had an open course of negotiations where real effort was put into trying to get the ends to meet and that everyone came along and that we should be able to see what is the agreement that has been made. Unfortunately, we end up in a situation where the Left and the Liberal Alliance cannot be involved. I'm sorry about that. But, on the other hand, we have an incredibly broad agreement and thus the secure foundation of the police, which will be needed for the years to come, so that the police can work in security within the framework of the police, even if the framework is improved. So with this agreement and with the elements that are then implemented with this bill, security and security are being delivered in the kingdom, and there is reason to rejoice about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112144119	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and that is from Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112144126	Thank you. I just need to hear from the Attorney General about something. Because I know it well; I have also been a minister, and I know the speech papers from the officials, where sometimes things are painted a little more rosy than they are, and that can also be a political order. But just to be absolutely sure, Minister of Justice: as I read the table on page 28 of the agreement, new initiatives in the multi-annual agreement are not 9 billion. kr. kr. It is just that we agree on this, in other words that the majority of what lies in this agreement is a continuation of initiatives that have been agreed in the past but for which there is no funding. New initiatives are approx. 2.3 billion kr. It's just for confirmation, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112144205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112144207	That is true, but some of the elements which we are then allowed to carry on and which would otherwise have fallen away if we had not done so are what has been in previous understandings, among other things. the increased efforts to combat terrorism and, moreover, the many good initiatives taken under the previous government in relation to the fight against gang crime and so on, so that is absolutely right. But what we stood by when we started the work of making this deal was the challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112144241	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112144243	Well, fine, then we'll agree. Anyway, that's fair enough. I don't understand why the Minister of Justice couldn't go to his finance minister and take the 4%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But that is not what we wanted, and that is how it is. We'll take that down. But I am glad to have just clarified that it is not nine new billions for new things in the police; it is a somewhat smaller amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112144316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112144317	In fact, I tried to do so, and, as the financing also shows, money has also been put in, in which the Ministry of Finance has been able to deliver. Perhaps it is too much to put oneself in a place where one says: I cannot understand why I could not have it as I would have liked it. Sadly, life is often so unfair about you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112144336	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112144408	The debate is now open, and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112144424	I'm really glad I got the booze off when I was the next person to be on the platform, so I'm sure I'm not gonna get myself infected. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. I would like to begin by saying that I support and have a great understanding of the motives behind the proposal. The proposers would like to have the opportunity to pay tribute to victims of violations, regardless of whether or not the violation affects the sense of self-respect and honour of the wrongdoers. It is a sympathetic proposal, and I think there is reason to sign for it. It is important to focus on the treatment of victims in our legal system. Victims of crime must be treated properly. It is simply crucial for the sense of justice and it is important that victims who have been the victims of a crime feel taken seriously so that they can move on with their lives. Tort is then a special size because it is not measured up in the same way as an injury that can be made up in crowns and ears. In order for compensation to be paid under the Civil Liability Act, there must be an unlawful infringement and an infringement is unlawful where there is a culpable infringement of a certain gravity. It is not a condition that the offence is punishable, but the condition in relation to culpable violation of a certain gravity will normally be met in cases where there is a criminal offence. In general, "tort" means an offence which is capable of influencing a person's sense of self-respect and honour. That is to say, if we are to translate it into ordinary language, it is about the humiliation that has been suffered by the injured person and that is the key to obtaining compensation for torture here. In practice, compensation is typically paid in cases where injured persons have been subjected to sexual misconduct, including the sexual abuse of children, as well as abuse and neglect. In addition, tort compensation may be granted for defamation or for a violation of privacy. That is the legal position today, but our rules must, of course, be in line with time and reflect a reasonable balance, and so I think there is reason to look at the rules we have for the granting of compensation. After all, we also have forms of compensation other than tort reimbursement, which we can consider changing. Today, it is possible to be awarded damages, even if there has been no suffering if the offence was committed by a crime which forms part of a particularly serious attack on a person's freedom. Because it is not a requirement that there should be a little torture, that is, the fact that you must have experienced a humiliation, nor is it a requirement that the violation should be appropriate to influence the victim's sense of self and honour. Of course, in extending the area of compensation, there will be a wider range of cases falling within the category that we have now restricted to the specific cases where compensation for torture and infringement is granted. That will be the case, and that is the aim of the motion for a resolution. On the other hand, unlike what the motion for a resolution proposes, I believe that there is still a need to define the infringements which could trigger compensation. If any kind of infringement results in compensation, then there is a risk that the actual violations will be minimized, in other words in cases where compensation is being paid today. And, of course, the economics of the solution that we choose must also be controlled. The extension of the scope of the reimbursement could have financial consequences for the State, since in certain cases the State, through the Compensation Board, is obliged to cover claims for compensation and compensation. It is therefore important that further work be done to look at the area of compensation, taking into account the economic consequences of expanding the area. So collecting there must be a reasonable demarcation, and the economy must be in place, and therefore I have set my official work in motion to look at those issues together with relevant stakeholders. When the outcome of the work is available, I would like to invite the proposers and the Folketing, moreover, to a political discussion of the way forward. Furthermore, the proposers propose that the proposal should require the government to submit a legislative proposal during the current parliamentary year. A draft law on what we are talking about here demands what I also think I have presented in my speech some fairly thorough considerations. And in order to ensure the quality of legislation and to ensure that we come all the way around, it is not a job that can be done in a few months. Therefore, it will be my expectation that we will immediately expect to agree that such a proposal can only be made in the next assembly. As I said, I appreciate the initiative taken by the proposers to raise this debate. We have to make sure that we get it the right way. In fact, this is an attempt to reach out to the proposers and say: yes, I agree that a relevant issue is being raised. I hope we can meet, preferably broadly, in the Folketing to get it organized in the right way. It cannot be asked that authors of a party should be able to come all the way around in the motion for a resolution, both of whom are skilled lawyers. Nor is it the mission of the motion for a resolution. The mission of the motion for a resolution is to give me a commitment, and I am happy to take that commitment, I say here, and I would like to carry it out in dialogue with the Folketing and the proposers. So I hope that this will be heard as an outstretched hand in solving an issue that is relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145106	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145110	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that what forms the basis of the proposal is the Supreme Court ruling in the case of Morten Helveg Petersen, where the Supreme Court, among other things. According to the Supreme Court, regardless of the fact that Morten Helveg Petersen has been the victim of serious unlawful offences, the Supreme Court considers that, according to their nature and extent, these violations are not capable of affecting his sense of self-respect and honour. Now it's a very powerful word... self-respect, honour, etc. That was one thing. The second point is that the Minister says that the economy must also be in place. I can say that I think I am speaking on behalf of both authors of the motion for a resolution when I say that it is not the decisive factor in this relationship, i.e. whether you can get money from the state. Most people who get involved in this will be satisfied if they can just get money from the other party. And then there are zero state crowns involved. I don't want it to go over any substitute board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145221	But I fully agree with what this is about a matter that has generated the motion for a resolution. I think there is reason to look at it. As I have said, I also think there may be other examples where it would be said that this would be perfectly reasonable. As far as the economy is concerned, I fully agree with that, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen says that in the best of all worlds the one who is required to pay tort would pay it to the other. But experience is also just that some of those who have committed a crime and are required to pay tort who cannot pay it. And there we stand on the side of the state and say that then we put out the money and you get the money from us, and then we take over the claim against the person who had to pay. It therefore appears in a number of cases that the amounts owed there must be written off. Thus, if this arrangement is implemented in accordance with its intention, it causes a financial loss to the State. How big it is is hard to know, but it would be to stab yourself in the eye to say that it should the offender pay enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145328	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145330	Well, we have other forms of compensation where the Compensation Board, i.e.. State, don't go in and pay. And I could well imagine that the state was not involved in these things at all, but merely stated that the Danish courts should provide compensation in the judgment and that it must then be up to the judge how he gets the money haunted. Then it would not have financial consequences for the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145357	But it is clear: if you do, it has no economic impact on the state. It could also be imagined that we are differentiated and said that there are some forms of torture that we see as having to have the money, and that the state will then, if I may say so, start out. And there may be other forms in which it was said that they belong in a category where it must be a relationship that must be settled between the parties. That is one of the things I think we should consider in future work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145418	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145421	Thank you, and thank you for the outstretched hand. I should just like to ask if there might also be an outstretched hand with a little money in it if necessary. We have discussed in the past a threefold increase in the level of compensation for victims of rape, for example, and I believe that the Ministry of Justice came to the conclusion that this would amount to about 10 million. kr. a year. After all, these are not the huge sums. So I just have to ask the Minister carefully if you are willing, if this is the way it ends up, to have a little money in the outstretched hand too, so that this can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145459	I think that is one of the elements we need to take into account and calculate what costs. It is clear that making a proposal to the government, the government will also point to that funding. I shall not go into the debate we have just had on police conciliation and financing, but I wonder if we will solve this problem as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145517	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145519	That sounds good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145523	Then the next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145529	Thank you to the Minister for reaching a review of this area. This is something that the former director of the Institute for Human Rights Jonas Christoffersen has pointed out we should be doing, so I very much welcome it. But I would like to ask the Minister about that review: can the fact also be added to the case that the Supreme Court in the umbrella case considered that the last-to-last offenders were many, many of them not having to pay tort compensation because it was thought that the victims had simply had had enough in that there were many perpetrators before them? I do not think that is correct. This should not mean that the last perpetrators can get away with it free of charge just because a great deal of compensation has been paid in advance. So will the Minister also consider looking it through?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145625	It is also a relevant question, and the umbrella case is complex in the sense that there are so many perpetrators and thus so many to demand reimbursement of torture. It could be said that if the total reimbursement were to be of some amount, the amount could be divided to all the perpetrators, but then it would be a very, very small amount. One could also choose to accumulate it and say that the perpetrators and the perpetrators of the crime women have to pay the same, and thus the compensation for torture is actually very, very large. Neither of the two solutions is right. In the umbrella case, it was started by granting a tort allowance, and along the way it was found that the total amount would be very, very large, and that is why the decision was taken as it was, but which is not an ideal solution to that process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145712	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145716	I hope that this is a commitment that the Minister will also look at that part. Now I know that the minister's party was very concerned that it should be on the children's certificates and so on. I think that might make less sense. But at least I don't think it makes sense that you get away with it more cheaply simply because you're one of the last perpetrators. So I hope that what the Minister said was a yes, although I did not hear it so clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145740	What I said was that I think it is one of the elements that we must also take into account. I believe that there are relatively few cases which would be comparable to the umbrella case when it comes to the issue of compensation for torture, because there are very many perpetrators and only two of them have been violated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145756	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister, and so the rapporteur's series can begin. Thank you to the Minister for preparing for the first rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Jeppe Bruus. The Minister of Justice who also had corona and therefore cannot be infected). Well, then I welcome the immune.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112145824	Thank you. Yeah, well, we're some people who've advanced the vaccine by exposing ourselves to being infected with corona. Let's hope it lasts as well as the vaccines. That said, I have missed being back in the Chamber here with my good colleagues, with the other legal rapporteurs and other good people from the Committee on Legal Affairs, and I very much hope that some people are concerned about this sitting and watching, because it seems that the debate on new legislation in this area has already begun and that some questions have been raised in connection with the good proposal from the Left. So I shall not go further into the discussion on the economy and so on, but I am really looking forward to continuing a good discussion, both in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in cooperation with the Minister for Justice when it comes to that. One of the areas in which I can then supplement the debate that is already under way in this Chamber is that it is quite good to spend time on this whole question of demarcation, that is to say whether there should be any limits on when one can sue one another for compensation for tort. I think that has been difficult to encapsulate, and that is one of the things I look forward to discussing with my good colleagues across the parties and with the good Minister of Justice. Not surprisingly, in line with what the Minister of Justice has said, we would very much like to have a joint discussion on this in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and to be able to draw up a joint report on it and then to be invited to an open discussion with the Minister for Justice, where we can continue the debate that has already been started here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112150007	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, since the rapporteur for the proposers rounds off the debate as the last one. So I can welcome Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112150034	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you to the Left for tabling a fundamentally correct and sympathetic motion for a resolution aimed at remedying the immediately violating legal situation that we have in the country in terms of compensation for torture, at least in the light of the judgment of the Supreme Court, which has fallen in relation to what is known in popular terms as the Se and Hør case. I think there are many sympathetic things that speak in favour of voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. Already the fact that the Supreme Court chooses to say that a quite serious violation of access to at least potentially, but to that extent also topical, very sensitive information should not in itself lead to the imposition of compensation for tort, is problematic; not so much for the plaintiff, for he is doing enough, but, of course, with regard to the signal sent to others in one, one must say, increasingly dubious and motley media world, which apparently does not shy away many means to gain access to what is called popularly known private information. One thing is that, of course, we punish criminals who violate personal data law and impose access to, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. I think there is a lot to be said for us to change the approach that the Supreme Court has adopted here in relation to compensation for tort, and to say that, although there may be no outright defamation, there is no doubt that there has been any attempt. There is no doubt that if See and Listen in this case had found some more juicy data about those involved in the case, it would have gone on the front page. And that alone seems to me to advocate that, as the Minister for Justice also mentioned, the scope of application of torture should be changed and extended. So we are very much in favour of this motion for a resolution, and I actually heard that the Minister for Justice was, and that is why we are looking forward to the committee reading. Whether we are going to a different reading where we vote on it, or whether we can perhaps move things together without doing so, is not decisive for us, but that we support one hundred per cent of the Left's proposals here and the desire behind it, there should be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112150326	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, who can come to the platform as soon as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt set it up. It is therefore clear, and welcome to the rapporteur, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112150347	Thank you for the floor. Thank you to the motion for a resolution for raising an important issue. In a Supreme Court ruling last year, a limit was set on when payment of compensation may be made in connection with an unlawful infringement by improper access to personal data. The case was that Se and Hør had used extremely intimidating methods to access personal data, but despite this, no reimbursement could be granted, since the information itself was not sufficiently defamatory. In such an assessment of reimbursement, emphasis should be placed on the circumstances and ways in which the information has been accessed, and therefore the Radical Left supports the motion for a resolution, so that in the future attention can be paid to the way in which this information has been obtained, i.e. whether it has been obtained in a particularly intimidating way, or whether there is a particular gravity behind the way in which the information has been accessed, as in the case of the Se and Hør case, for example. This will be very well in line with the general rules we have on personal data, GDPR, etc., which are particularly characterised by the high level of fines for infringements of this kind. So the fact that, on this kind of issue too, we are looking at the gravity and intimidating way in which information is obtained seems obvious to the Radical Left, and so we would like to thank the motion for a resolution tabled for the good work on this motion for a resolution which we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112150549	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112150606	First of all, I would like to thank the Left for putting forward the proposal here today. We can support the proposal in the SF, and we can also support the Minister's idea of reviewing the area, because it does not make sense that one can be right that one has been subjected to a serious violation and that afterwards the court can only decide that it is too small for compensation to be paid to tort. I guess it's that short. This isn't just about this case. The former director of the Institute for Human Rights Jonas Christoffersen has pointed out that there is an imbalance between compensation for tort, pain and pain in the Danish legal system. He has actually called for a very thorough examination of the area and also a model that can correct that imbalance. He asks a little rhetorical whether it is reasonable for a television star, photographed topless by a paparazzi photographer, to be awarded 75,000 DKK. in compensation for tort, while a victim of rape must settle for an amount that can vary from 0 to 15,000 or 100,000 kroner. He also said that it is not always transparent how the courts characterise the gravity of the nature of various violations and the amount of compensation which they can then trigger. In other words, there can be a lot of variation. As I also mentioned briefly to the Minister for Justice, I do not think it makes sense that the Supreme Court has blocked the victims of the Umbrella case to receive more compensation for torture because they had had enough with their words. As some remember, there were hundreds of perpetrators, and at one point the Supreme Court thought that enough compensation had been given; now the total was large enough. This meant that the last perpetrator got away with that offense free of charge, and it doesn't belong anywhere. In fact, I think there is every reason to have a closer look at this area, but the SF can also support the proposal as it stands here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112150820	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112150843	Thank you. The authors of this motion for a resolution seem to have found a problem in relation to compensation for tort, as there may be situations where it seems that some form of financial compensation for an infringement should be justified, but where the legislation does not allow compensation. If you have been the victim of a crime, it is reasonable that you are entitled to compensation for tort, compensation for loss and compensation for pain and pain, without, at the same time, allowing the perpetrator to buy away from his actions. A financial compensation can help the victim of a crime, and it is clear that we need to examine whether there are matters that fall outside the law, as it has been knitted together today. I think it is important that we look at the whole area together. And as the Institute of Human Rights pointed out in an article in the Lawyer of 2019, there is also sometimes a strange difference between what you get in tort allowance and what you get in compensation for pain and pain. In concrete terms, there are examples of the award of DKK 75,000. in return for illegal paparazzi images, while a victim of rape alone is awarded DKK 15,000. Indemnification. But compensation is an unmanageable amount, which is fixed at estimates rather than on the basis of objective criteria, which we can settle down and figure out. Compensation is a symbolic compensation for the discomfort or psychic but that a violation has caused. It is clear that it is not possible to reverse what has happened by granting compensation or compensation. However, we should therefore examine the area thoroughly so that we can have an overview of the types of compensation, the amount of the various allowances and, finally, which cases fall outside the scope. And then we will be better able to find out where it is that there are gaps in the system. I think that the example of the umbrella case and the tort allowance here is a very good example of another place where there is a hole. Having said that, we are in agreement with Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen in that there is a problem here and we can therefore immediately support the resolution as it stands. But we also warmly support the fact that we have the whole area under investigation so that we can do one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112151107	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112151127	Thank you to the Left for the motion for a resolution. With this motion for a resolution, the Left proposes to extend the scope of Article 26 (2) of the Civil Liability Act. 1 to compensate for unlawful infringements. We in the Conservative People's Party would like to recognise the authors of the Left and the intention of the resolution. The proposal clearly intends to respond to the wrongdoing and to strengthen the sense of justice. We can see the need for compensation for torture, whether it is an unlawful violation of his freedom, honour or person. There is, as it were, a gap in legislation here. The decision on the case in question, which is the basis of the motion for a resolution, shows that the possibility of obtaining compensation following an unlawful infringement is insufficient. We agree with the Left that they should be strengthened and that in future people who are victims of these violations can be granted compensation, which will be determined by the courts, based on the overall content of the case. We would also like to commend the Minister for Justice for being accommodating to the motion for a resolution. The Conservative People's Party supports both the purpose of the proposal and the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112151257	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112151330	Thank you. The person responsible for an unlawful violation of the freedom, peace, honour or person of another person shall pay the injured party's compensation. That is the meaning of section 26 of the Civil Liability Act. 1 on compensation for tort. On 11 March 2020, the Supreme Court ruled in the case of the surveillance of credit card transactions, which were illegally provided for the purpose of monitoring different people of interest to a Danish weekly. Information on, inter alia: payment on hotels and restaurants, the purchase of travel tickets and purchases in department stores were passed on to a weekly magazine which had used one of the information contained in an article stating that one of the persons in the case had been at a disco in Berlin. The Supreme Court found that injured persons had been subjected to serious unlawful violations of their privacy in the form of monitoring of their credit card transactions and thus to some extent to their privacy. However, the Supreme Court did not consider that the information had been appropriate to influence the person's sense of self-respect and honour, so the court could not award compensation for tort. I find it worrying that the case had that outcome. It has to be assumed that the case would have had a different outcome if, by chance, details could have been revealed which could be described as more pesky. It is an expression to me that the current legislation places too much emphasis on concrete revelations and too little on the fact that something about purely private matters has been revealed, contrary to the law, through months of monitoring. In addition, it is generally accepted in the legal literature that it may be extremely difficult in Denmark to recognise a claim for compensation for torture, even if there has undoubtedly been an unlawful and quite serious infringement. In other words, there is reason to believe that it is too difficult in Denmark to obtain compensation for tort, even in this area. Against this backdrop, of course, we in the New Citizen can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112151557	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance if he is still present in the Chamber. Since I do not see the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance in the Chamber, I can give the floor to the rapporteur from the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112151644	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor, and thank you for the words of the Minister and the many rapporteurs who have expressed a positive opinion on the proposal which Preben Bang Henriksen and I have made together. The proposal is indeed the result of a specific judgment to which I shall return shortly. But let me begin by congratulating the House on what you will find out, what you will see, whether you can get tortured and, for example, what you will see. Going under the authority of the Civil Service Department on the Ministry of Justice's website and reading about tort reimbursement. Then you can see here that you may have the opportunity to seek compensation for tort if you have been subjected to a violation of your freedom, for example. detention, your privacy, privacy, or by your person. If you then think that the case we had about Se and Hør, which paid some money every month to an employee of Nets in order to obtain credit card information from a number of different people, was an unlawful violation, indeed, you are quite right because the people and the group involved in that case were convicted. They were even sentenced to quite harsh punishments. It is the case that the Aller Group, which published and still away, publishes the magazine called Se and Hør, yes, they got 50 daily tickets, but it was 50 daily tickets every 200,000 DKK. kr. And if we look at the employee who was employed in Nets and who sold that information to Se and Hør, yes, then he was sentenced to prison for 1 year and 6 months, and the person who in the sentence is called C, whom most of us probably better know under the letter Q, was sentenced to prison for 1 year and 3 months. The Østre Landsret states that the court's assessment has emphasized the gravity and nature of the relationship committed. A fixed monthly amount was paid in order to provide information on publicly known persons on an ongoing and systematic basis. The agreement involved systematic monitoring of the movement of a large number of public figures and thus a significant violation of these persons and a breach of the fundamental trust that the public must have in handling the payment data of private persons. I know that several of the people on this list who were sent to Se and Hen each month have considered raising claims against Se and Hen and getting some compensation, but as far as is known, only one had the courage to do so in the end, namely Morten Helveg Petersen. He shouldn't have done that because the only thing he got out of it was a long nose and, by the way, an exorbitant large bill for legal expenses to his own lawyer and to the lawyers of the other party. He didn't get anything out of it because the Supreme Court charged the very gross violation of his privacy that he had suffered for exactly 0 kr. How, then, did the Supreme Court reach that conclusion? Well, the Supreme Court says there are some very serious violations. There is no doubt about that. They call it grossly unlawful violations of his privacy in the form of monitoring his credit card transactions and thus a certain extent of his conduct. So not only that See and Hear could see what you have spent your money on, and they could also see where you were, whether you were travelling, and thus could see and hear a number of different stories about that now is it and it is on holiday there and there with it and it. However, the information on the transactions in question does not reveal sensitive personalities. In other words, Morten Helveg Petersen has such a dull privacy that nothing has come out that is so sensitive to people. So if you just have such a common consumption on trips to one place and the other place and buy a book and a record and some food and stuff every now and then, then you have to put up with the fact that See and Hear and others can monitor your transactions... didn't understand that what they do is legal, but if you think that in some way it has to trigger a compensation, then we have the Supreme Court's word that no, it doesn't. We find that legal position on the part of the Left to be totally unfair and out-of-date. It cannot be right for such serious violations to be committed and punished so hard for it and at the same time to see that the victims should not have a penny. It is, of course, not a reproach of the Supreme Court, which only follows the law in force. It is a reproach to us in here that we have not been aware of this injustice, and I am therefore pleased that all the rapporteurs, as I heard, were in favour of the resolution and that the Minister for Justice was also in favour of it. Perhaps I suspect that the Minister has had a premonition of what the other rapporteurs might think. You can never know that, but it doesn't really matter how the minister is drawn to the trough, as long as he is at the trough and wants to drink from it, so that we can change this completely unreasonable legal state. Moreover, I agree with some of the points that have been made, among others. on the part of the SF and Enhedslisten, that torture at all needs to be looked at in the seams, that there are quite a lot of crimes that are not charged to anything for the victim, because you do not consider what the victim has experienced as being so humiliating that it should trigger tort compensation. It's very strange that, for example. serious cases of violence and other things not just per year. automatic triggers a form of tort replacement. I simply do not understand that, and it is a legal situation which may have been the case many years ago, but it is hardly today. So I'll think it's fine, we're also looking at the tort area as such. I would just like to warn against the fact that it will be a jar of jelly which will not allow us to look at the specific question that we have raised in our motion for a resolution, so that we can resolve it, even without necessarily solving the other challenges of the size of tort replacement in the same way. So thank you for your support. I look forward to working on it under the auspices of the Legal Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112152321	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112152338	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 19 January 2021. In order to justify the question, I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur of the questioners, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112152417	In May of last year we discussed here in Parliament the fundamental question of how we in Parliament as legislators, but also as those who have to control the government, best get completely neutral and factual knowledge of the constitution and of the constitutionality of laws, etc. A proposal that we in the Danish People's Party put forward to set up a Constitutional Council received many good words on the way, but at second reading not so many green buttons on the screen behind me. That's often a condition. And I could understand from the debate that one of the reasons for the colour confusion that was on my screen was the explanatory statement that I had written in the motion for a resolution. Now that it has been well six months and we have become a little richer on constitutional law history in Denmark, I do not think there is any year, at least not during the time I have been active in politics, when the basic law and delicts and rules of ministerial accountability have been discussed, etc. As thoroughly as has been the case in the year 2020 we believe that there can now be a different positive mood compared to this debate about having a Constitutional Council. And what is that? Indeed, it is to a large extent based on inspiration from Sweden where you have a law council, that is, it is not the government itself and the government's own official apparatus that alone evaluates whether laws are constitutional, but that you have a council of Supreme Court judges who, on their own behalf, can express their views on legislative proposals and laws, but can also deal with specific questions to which a minority in the Folketing might wish to answer. I hope that the debate we have here today will show that there is a positive attitude towards enforcing the old legal principle, which I shall quote with the permission of the President in his language of origin. It's from Roman law and therefore in Latin: Nemo iudex in causa sua so that no one should be a judge in his own case. And, of course, it is with a direct address that this will also be a strengthening of credibility in relation to the assessments that the Folketing may receive in relation to the government's proposals, so that it is not the government itself that assesses the constitutionality of the proposals, but an independent entity. We have, of course, had discussions about it here among the parties of the Danish Parliament before we are gathered here for this festive event today, and I can therefore, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, put forward the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Minister: The Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil, Liberal Alliance and the DF: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that it is a parliamentary core task to control the work of the government, and notes in this context that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure's report of 21 December 2020 has proposed to establish forms of inquiry with special parliamentary anchoring in a committee of inquiry, including inspection committees. Parliament wishes to consider on a regular basis whether the existing possibilities for parliamentary control are adequate and whether there is a need to supplement them. The Danish Parliament therefore considers that appropriate models for strengthening independent and qualified assistance in constitutional matters, including a possible constitutional council, should be examined under the auspices of the UFO, and commit the government to contribute to this. • 45).
ParlaMint-DK_20210112152825	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and the proposal for adoption will, of course, be included in the further negotiations, although it sounded as if the proposer had all the parties mentioned. Thank you. Then I can give the floor for the answer, namely to the Minister of Justice. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112152855	With the broad support for the text of the adoption, there is something that needs to be done to get the debate going properly here, I assume. At the time when we dealt with the proposal last time, three basic arguments were put forward: one was that it is not so rare for the Ministry of Justice to make wrong assessments; the other was that officials might be affected and thus give some answers that they would not really give; and the third was that you get a different answer than what you want. There are still none of the arguments which I really think have won since then. It will then be mentioned, when the proposer raises it again, that we have spent quite a lot of time discussing our Constitution, especially in the gentleman's year 2020, which is undoubtedly also good long debates on all sorts of essential aspects of our Constitution and some of what is then being proposed in connection with this proposal, is to link it up to the fact that there must now be an understanding of this in the case of the killing of mink, which was also presented with constitutional implications. The government supports the proposal, we do, the Folketing will adopt the text of the adoption, and work will be done on a Constitutional Council. I just think there is reason to make some comments on the mink case and then what you want with a Constitutional Council. For the Constitutional Council that has been set up must, as I understand it, but it may well be that I do not really understand it. I do not have the task of advising the government, but of having an opportunity for the Folketing there to obtain a legal opinion. That is to say, if that is the situation, it would not have affected the actual course of the mink case, because that assessment would not have changed anything since it had been in the Folketing afterwards. The second argument is that officials may be affected to give a wrong judgment. One might say that there are a great many things that have been problematized in the mink case, but certainly not that element. In other words, of everything that has been said, it has not been the case. However, it also considers it necessary to clarify that a commission of inquiry under the auspices of a so-called committee of inquiry, which is a new parliamentary framework, should be set up, where the question will be clarified and thus have its legal framework of inquiry. The third argument was that you get a different answer from what you might want. I do not think that many constitutional councils will be able to remove that argument. You're always in that risk. So, in fact, I think it is necessary to say that the discussion on the Constitutional Council and the discussion on the control of the Folketing, which I agree with the proposer in has gained new interest, should not stand on and connect to the mink case, but that it should stand on the wish to ensure that there are the relevant investigative tools which, as I mentioned earlier, have been reflected in the newly established form of commission, a review commission, which, moreover, we have to make legislation on establishing and providing legal bases in a very short time, and then discuss whether there are other tools that we lack in the parliamentary toolbox in order to be able to control the government in a fair way? However, with all that said, we support the text of the adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112153303	Thank you, Minister. There is now one brief comment from the rapporteurs who would like it to be made, and that is what Mr von der Vring wants. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112153312	The question has now been put here before an agreement was reached on a committee of inquiry, and that is why it has been formulated in this way. It's just for clarification. Where, if I have to play back a little, there could be a relevance where a constitutional council could play a role in relation to the mink case, would be in order to clarify whether L 77 is actually expropriative or not. So, as far as the question which legalizes the mink action is concerned, the comments do not take a final decision as to whether we are in section 3 of the Constitution or whether we are in section 73 of the Constitution and, as I understand it, the government has not yet established a position. A Constitutional Council could be helpful. But it is not really to talk us apart, because I am pleased with the text that we have now, and I just want to hear whether the Minister for Justice agrees that the construction of Sweden, where a Supreme Court council of law can review the proposals that come from the government, is also a guarantee that the government can say that this is an independent authority, whose expertise cannot be examined, which has said good things, and that therefore, as a government, we will be strengthened if there is anyone who wants to cast doubt on the constitutionality of the proposals that might come from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112153429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112153430	I do not actually know the Swedish construction in detail, but as it is at present in the Danish construction, the President of the Danish Parliament must see the legislative proposals being put forward. One of the few controls that lies with the President of the Danish Parliament is to ensure that we do not deal here with proposals that are contrary to the Constitution. This means that the Folketing must already be able to carry out the legal assessment of whether or not a particular proposal is contrary to the Constitution. As I said, however, I do not know the Swedish model in detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112153503	Thank you, Minister. There are no more of the rapporteurs who wanted to make one brief comment. And so we shall now proceed to the debate and the general rules for short remarks. And the first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112153533	Thank you, President. I can therefore call on the Minister of Justice to say a little about the Swedish model, in which it has been felt since 1909 that the proposals which the government intends to put forward are sent to a legislative council, and if the government chooses not to send them to the Council of Law's assessment of whether they are in accordance with the Swedish constitution, it must be specifically justified. And it is quite true, as the Minister mentions, that in Denmark it is not possible to call it the Folketing's, yes, prerogative, but it is the Speaker of the Folketing who is responsible for reviewing things. What you just have to say, with all the honour and respect for the presidents who have been for this high thing since 1849 is that none of them have legally been at the level of our Supreme Court judges. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party believe that it makes sense to make a difference to the Swedish model. It is clear that there are some areas, and as far as I am concerned, I can mention the European Union area where we have had different understandings, including in terms of expertise, of the constitutionality of laws, treaties, agreements. It is not unknown that there is a debate about whether the banking union is a section 19 or a section 20 matter. It is not unknown that there has been the debate as to whether the interpretation style of the European Court of Justice and the continuous expansion of the scope of EU law are compatible with Article 20 of the Constitution, or whether it is incompatible with it, etc. That debate, I think, will all get through better, better or how to interpret it, knowing that it is the highest legal expertise, only surpassed by the Supreme Court itself, which has the opportunity to give an answer, a response, an assessment. And I believe that this will not only be a strengthening of the knowledge level of the Folketing and in general of the debate, but indeed, as I said, also by the government. Let us take the very specific case of the banking union, where the Ministry of Justice has made a statement which is long and objective and according to the academic method etc. However, one cannot help thinking that it is striking that it coincides completely with the attitude of the changing governments. And that doubt will be removed if such an assessment comes from someone who is trusted in all other matters to make factual and proper decisions, namely over here not to the left of me, but to the right of me, and that is not to be understood in the political sense of party politics where we have the Supreme Court. I think we should undo this opportunity for ourselves, for the people and for the rule of law. And that is why, as I said, I am glad that we can now get to work on this work. I do not want, and we in the Danish People's Party do not want this to be a matter within the minkgate, or whatever you have to do. It is now parked, and it has its own life, and it runs in its own new system. But we want to be able to create a new institution which can be of benefit to all, regardless of the possible debates and truncheons that may exist. And now that you can find inspiration on the other side of Øresund for a rare time, I also think that under the Swedes we are doing it. It is quite a well-functioning institution with the law council in Sweden, and I think, and we in the Danish People's Party think, that it would be natural for one to be inspired by it and thus also to give it the opportunity to a minority of the members of the Danish Parliament, as I describe it and try to explain it in today's edition of the Politiken. It is indeed a new year; now one also begins to write in the Politiken. So that one can strengthen the minority in the Danish Parliament by being able to present relevant and constitutional questions and clarify them. I do not see that there will be any losers in such a construction, and therefore hope that on Tuesday, when we vote on the proposal for adoption, which we agree to so far, we will be able to get this work started. It will be a good day and a day of celebration for democracy and for legal certainty. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112153948	Thank you, President. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Welcome and Happy New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112154008	Thank you. It is indeed a new year when the Danish People's Party begins to speak and go on the beach in the radical election paper, Politiken. In this way 2021 could draw much different and brighter than 2020, we can hope so, and political fronts can move, as we have seen. And that kind of sounds very quiet now, Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt quite committed also this time is in favour of having a Constitutional Council. Of course, building national institutions can have some sympathy for them, and that is why, of course, we are also pleased that we can jointly have this proposal for adoption where we look at the possibilities that exist. However, as we are sceptical, a little like we were when, after all, in 2020, we also dealt with the proposal for a Constitutional Council, it is also what is really the intention behind it. Because if a Constitutional Council is about us having a discussion every time there is any EU legislation on the possibilities of limiting it to some extent and spending a long time hitting each other in the head with it, then we think it is losing some of its value. But, on the other hand, we must be open to looking at models and also models of how we organise our democracy. Democracy is not a static size. Democracy is, of course, a constantly moving size, and that is also why the forms of work we have, both here in the Folketing, but also, of course, in the relationship between Parliament and government, are also moving over time. That is why we have come together to make this joint text for adoption, in which we are therefore trying, under the auspices of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, to look at the work we are doing, in relation to research studies and new forms of investigation, and also, of course, naturally to look at what it looks like in other countries, i.e. whether there are things relating to the constitutional issue and which we can also look at in some way in committee. And we are happy to take part in that discussion, and then we will see where it takes us, in the light of a new year and a new beginning and a new beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112154235	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is for Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112154241	Thank you for that, President. I would just like to reassure the rapporteur that this is not an attempt at inflation in a particular debate. It is, in fact, an attempt to ensure that the Danish people's government can also deal with the challenges we face in a proper way. It is just to say that I welcome the adoption text that we have now, and I am also delighted with the words that the rapporteur makes in his speech here, that we can get the work started and look at how other countries are doing it here. It is quite crucial, I think, that in every respect we can be confident that we are within the framework of the Constitution. I think we all have an interest in this, there is no reason to accuse anyone of the opposite and therefore I think this would be a very good step in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112154329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112154330	I also thought that the choice of Politiken intended to reassure the honourable Parliament. So it's definitely taken down. Then it was actually just an attempt to be a little direct and expectant in that we are not, as a starting point, in favour of a Constitutional Council, but that we are ready to discuss it together in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. And then one can afford to weigh the arguments and become wiser along the way, but we have to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112154356	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for another brief remark? No? Thus, there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, so thank the rapporteur, and welcome to the next one, which comes from the Left, and that is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112154416	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for having raised this question debate that we have today. Following on from the previous debate that we had, it is also nice to see that there appears to be such a wide range of parties in fact all of us who can agree on something. Because I think that many people have the impression that in here we are always arguing and disagreeing and that, if something comes from a party that you often disagree with, it is like that. The definition disagrees almost before reading the proposal, but that is not the case. The Folketing is better than its reputation. The proposal for a Constitutional Council could of course be interpreted as a mistrust of the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice. That is why I would like to make it clear that we do not have that mistrust. We believe that these are skilled lawyers who provide qualified advice. This does not alter the fact that the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice have a minister in charge, who is a member of a political party and thus cannot represent us all equally well. Therefore, questions may arise where one thinks: Ah, can that be right now? Can it really be that the Constitution sets the limit when we are not allowed to do this or that? There are also often questions about international law, in other words our Convention on Human Rights, our international conventions of various kinds, where there are doubts about their scope and what they actually mean for the legislation we can adopt in here, in relation to whether we can do something that many of us, or few of us, want to do in relation to having the desire to make legislation. That is why I think it would be exciting to see what has been done in other countries in order to get more independent expertise to examine these constitutional issues. Finally, I would just like to make it clear that something which at least tires me a little personally is that, when we discuss and debate, we refer so often to conventions and the constitution and say: we cannot do so because it is in our constitution or in that convention and in that convention. Perhaps I would like us to say more: we do not want this because we disagree, because there are some principles that we are opposed to, which we support, and which have been written into our constitution or our human rights, because we think it is sensible. So it is not just a matter of drawing things short where they say that we cannot; it is contrary to the constitution; it is contrary to the conventions; so we go in more and discuss matter in what we are actually discussing, in order to convince each other why human rights are a good idea and why human rights should not be abused to promote different political agendas that have little to do with real human rights. If this could also be part of that debate, it could just be extra welcome. So we think it is an excellent text for adoption that has been reached in agreement. The Left supports it, and the Left would like to thank the Danish People's Party once again for having raised this important debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112154754	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112154858	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank the author of the question for the debate here. It is indeed a new year when the Danish People's Party starts by proposing Swedish conditions and so far has written more debates on the rule of law in Politiken than the radical legal rapporteur. And I will therefore immediately sign for it by then offering you a cup of organic green tea or a caffe latte in order to continue the good cooperation we have thus begun. For an important part of the Danish Parliament's task is to control the government. The Folketing has a large number of tools for this: written questions, Article 20 questions, consultation issues and a question debate like the one we are currently in, and other things. In addition, we have competent staff in the party groups and the administration of the Folketing, each with their own tasks to dress up in the daily work and in the control of the government. It is obvious that the Danish Parliament is constantly considering the toolbox with parliamentary tools, i.e. whether it is sufficient, and especially when there is political armament in the government. A relevant place to look at is, for example, in the question of independent and qualified assistance on matters of a constitutional nature. This assessment is carried out primarily by ministries and the Ministry of Justice and with great skill here, as well as many qualified consultation responses from competent authorities and organisations that dress us with various assessments. But is there a need for an additional tool for the Folketing? The Radical Left will certainly not rule that out. In a country such as Sweden, for example, there is a Constitutional Council, and it could be interesting to look at the advantages and disadvantages of parliamentary work. Is there any other way to go, and what would such a scheme look like if it were invented in 2021? We have recently invented the phenomenon of the investigative commission together, and I am sure that we can come up with several good things together. That is why the Radical Left supports the motion tabled by Mr Seligman on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Morten Messerschmidt read the adoption text and looks forward to the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112155131	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112155137	I just want to say to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, that I think we have both gained the experience that in politics it is not really about being right; it is about being right. And as far as I am concerned, if the road to that is to go through Sweden, that is to say, to get to Mr. Kristian Hegaard's mandates will not be alien to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112155200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112155201	It is good to hear that you can find common ground across parties on different issues. I'm just taking note of that too, so this morning in Politiken, I saw that when it comes, for example, to legal certainty for people with disabilities, there is also a great deal of agreement among the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. So there may well be a risk of agreement between us and the two parties, and it is, of course, pleasing to the Danish people's government that it can also be achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112155228	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112155242	It is not that long ago that we were discussing a resolution on a Constitutional Council. In the SF we also expressed our support for the idea, but perhaps not entirely in the form in which the proposal was put forward. Among other things: We had some objections in relation to the appointment procedure for those who have to dispute the posts of a Constitutional Council, and we also think that the mandate of the Council should be slightly wider than that recommended by the Danish People's Party at that time. But it is a good thing that we now have a question debate on the same subject and that it also seems that we are going to have to examine this idea further. Then maybe all the reservations we had can be made. After all, we in the SF believe that it is essential for a parliament to be given independent advice and also a legal assessment. After all, the Minister of Justice has his talented lawyers in the Ministry of Justice, but they are, of course, first and foremost for him. And unless you have your own good contacts to consult, you can be a little in the Lord's field in relation to constituting a possible critical counterpole to what is being served. It is not the case that law is carved in stone; there may be different perceptions of it. And I have to say that in recent years too there has been great pressure on the conventions and there has been a great desire to challenge them. For example: We should have dealt today with the abolition of the paragraph of racism, and it has been a laughing matter for the Ministers of Justice who have changed their minds and said that is contrary to our international obligations. This could be an issue that one might want to have an additional assessment of. We have also sometimes experienced examples that there has been an increased desire to take a process risk, and this may in itself mean that one may need to have an additional assessment • beyond the departments' • of whether a law complies with the constitution or our international obligations. A constitutional council was originally a SF idea, which is very old. We have three times in the past put forward such a proposal for a Constitutional Council which can provide independent advice to the Folketing, and we still think it is a good idea, even though it was many years ago. And that is why we are very pleased with today's proposal for adoption because we are now moving forward and having the idea examined, and we can then thank the Danish People's Party for that, which has been somewhat more persistent than we have. I think that what is strong about a Constitutional Council is that it can give this extra assessment. In fact, I also think that it can provide something that the ministerial system may not quite be able to do, namely to make open arguments for or against a proposal. And it is quite important that we know all the considerations in the process towards a result and also the differences that may exist in relation to it. In any case, it will be a council, and in the end it will be the courts who will be able to decide whether a law is finally legal. It is just that, as I said earlier, it is crucial for the SF that if we are to set up a council, it should not only relate to the constitution; it must also relate to human rights and EU law, which is now becoming more and more important and is one of the reasons behind the Danish legal tradition today. But that should not stop us from welcoming the fact that it looks as if we have taken a small step towards having a Constitutional Council. Now we'll get it checked out. So thank you very much to the Danish People's Party for having raised the debate here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112155630	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112155639	In Denmark, the balance between the legislature, the Folketing, and the executive, the government, is unfortunately very uneven. When, as Members of Parliament, we need a constitutional or other legal assessment, we typically have no option but to ask the government. That's a little crooked. If, for example, we do not know what to do. If a minister asks whether the Minister's bill is in line with the Constitution, we will, funny enough, always get the answer that it is that it is perfectly natural. If we ask a minister whether the Minister's legislation is in line with human rights, we get the answer that it is. In fact, with the Copenhagen Declaration, which was made a few years ago, our opportunity to have a so-called second opinion from Strasbourg has also been weakened. This is something that the Danish People's Party has supported very warmly, and that is why I am really happy when I see that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard nevertheless want other assessments, because unfortunately we have had the opportunity to obtain other assessments from the Court of Human Rights in the Copenhagen Declaration. It's too bad, but it doesn't change the fact that this is really good. Sometimes it is nice to have a different assessment, and I actually think that this is particularly true on the question of whether Denmark respects human rights, because it takes so long to get it tested. In other words, when it comes to raising a case before the Court of Human Rights, it simply takes an extremely long time for us to find out whether the Danish legislation was in fact contrary to human rights. It can be difficult to learn where law stops and where politics begins. Or to put it another way: can I, as a parliamentarian of a party outside the government, trust that the constitutional and legal assessment I receive in a ministerial response to a committee question is one hundred percent sober, completely complete and in no way colored by the government's political agenda? I know that we have a neutral civil service in Denmark, and I am really glad we do, but that does not change the fact that when a minister or a government gives the office a task, it is after all with a training. Well, then there is a particular task that needs to be solved. So it is not to question that the official work, the official work we have in Denmark, is doing very well; it is more a matter of how we have struck a balance between the government's muscles and the members of parliament's muscles. After all, the parliaments of our neighbouring Sweden and Germany are differently well equipped to obtain independent legal assessments which, in some cases, can be used as guardians of the current governments, which it is our job to control. Parliaments have large independent departments where parliamentarians can produce legal assessments that can be used in parliament and in public. These are assessments which, in many cases, challenge, and perhaps even run counter to the judgements of the government's own lawyers. In Germany there is a Constitutional Court, and in Sweden, as is also mentioned in the comments on the motion for a resolution which we have mentioned a number of times today, this Council of Law has been mentioned. After all, we need legal advice in the Danish Parliament, and I actually think that it is rare for me to say that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is right when he says that there has probably been a particular need this year to discuss where we are in relation to the responsibility of the official work in relation to the constitution and where we are in relation to the responsibility of the official work in relation to ministers, and not least where we are in relation to the responsibility of the government towards the official work and the responsibility of the government towards the Folketing. That is why I think it only makes sense for us to start working to give the Folketing some more muscle in this area, and I think, in fact, that in the last few years, not only in 2020, but in the last few years, we have seen that this has been necessary. It is not just a question of human rights; it is also a question of who is right in relation to an interpretation of the law: the Folketing or the government? That is why I am very pleased that we managed to create so much support for continuing to look at how such a Constitutional Council could look.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112160119	Thank you. No one has signed up to short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112160139	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this request. Back in May last year we had a debate on the same subject, and it cannot be said that the subject has become less relevant since then. In the Conservative People's Party we have a general trust in the Danish official work, which consists of skilled and professionally competent people, and they are some of the best in their genre. This also applies to lawyers who sit in the Ministry of Justice and advise on whether draft legislation might be contrary to the Constitution. But, unfortunately, we have also recently seen that the system is not entirely infallible, and that is why we are in favour of the request. Even a blind hen can see that the government has made mistakes in handling the closure of the mink industry. Mistakes have been made with enormous consequences that cannot be undone. This should give rise to such self - examination. It is almost unnecessary for me to stand here on the platform and say that the Conservative People's Party believes that the Constitution must be respected. Nevertheless, we have made that clear once again. This does not mean that we immediately support the proposal to set up a Constitutional Council, but we have moved a little more since we debated the proposal last May. We are curious, we are open to looking at new opportunities, and we are also included in the proposal for adoption for which there is broad political support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112160324	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we can move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112160353	Today's question is whether the Minister for Justice is still opposed to the creation of a Constitutional Council following motion for a resolution B 69 in the light of the mink case. At the first reading of the motion for a resolution, which forms the basis of today's question, I and New Citizens were in favour of the idea of a Constitutional Council, a Constitutional Council which can contribute to the Folketing with independent review of constitutional issues. We share the concern that in a number of cases questions arise about the understanding and interpretation of the words of the Constitution in the parliamentary work. Not least when we speak the European Union, when we speak immigration, and when we speak Islam, areas that have far-reaching consequences for the development of our society are often interpreted by the Ministry of Justice's crown lawyers in a direction that allows the government to steer the country in a direction that bite by bit weakens our freedom and democracy. It is possible that lawyers' interpretation is correct and, as a starting point, we do not have any mistrust of the office. But lawyers' interpretation is rarely verified. When we see how, in other circumstances, there are judgments that are overruled by the courts, we find that a Constitutional Council, which could contribute with an impartial assessment, could be beneficial. However, we still have doubts as to whether, as stated in the original motion for a resolution, it is true that the members of the Council should be appointed by the Minister for Justice, and we also have a real concern that a Constitutional Council will nevertheless fall into the slippage of the Crown lawyers of the Ministry of Justice for the sole reason that it is of course the Supreme Court that always has the last word, so it would be risky to be less cautious than the officials of the Ministry of Justice. However, in recognition of the real problems that exist, which have not least been obvious recently, and in recognition of the real good intentions of the proposal, we continue to support the idea of an independent constitutional council and, of course, the text of the joint adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112160605	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and then we go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112160628	Thank you for the floor. We welcome the joint text and welcome the proposal here. A great deal has already been said, which I shall not repeat, except one thing, which I believe, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen was the first to say. And that is, of course, that we have no mistrust of our official work and of our Ministry of Justice, and our agreement to the proposal has nothing to do with such mistrust. But I have been in the Folketing for many years now, and I have tried a bit of each. I have tried to sit in a support party and I have tried to sit in a government party and I have tried to be in an opposition party. And when you get legal statements from the Ministry of Justice, it's always kind of like getting a letter from your bank advisor. And that means that there is nothing wrong with it, but it may not necessarily be written with one's own interests in mind. And that's because the only thing I haven't seen before is being from a party that asked with the Attorney General. And that's probably how it really is: that even if you're a superb lawyer, you also have a boss somewhere that you work for. We all have to do this as good and loyal employees. That's why it's a good idea to have another instance. We also see in other parts of the world that different courts think differently, and that is only an excellent principle that we have introduced here. Thank you for a good proposal and a good debate and, as I said, we are very pleased with this joint proposal for adoption. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112160830	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112160834	I would just like to take this opportunity to say that I am probably the only one who has not yet been told that I am not trying to accuse the official apparatus of being unqualified or driven by disguised motives. But sir... Henrik Dahl does not confirm that when the Danish Parliament adopted what is called the "Tvindloven" it happened by a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament? They were even parties that have very, very skilled lawyers in their parliamentary groups, and on the recommendation of a government and a Ministry of Justice, who, without blinking, thought that it was in accordance with the Constitution, which the Supreme Court subsequently found not to be the case when it opposed the second sentence of Paragraph 3 of the Constitution. A Constitutional Council might have been very good, a little reflection break before one came to the embarrassing affair that the Folketing was overruled at the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112160931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112160931-2	It's fantastic that sir. Morten Messerschmidt in these times reminds the entire Folketing and the members of the government present of this matter, which is precisely about a case in which the Folketing and the government acted in a way that the Supreme Court later ruled was contrary to the Constitution. It also shows a great deal about the relationship between law and politics, and I am not going to rip it up. But it was one of the few occasions when the Supreme Court took on the task of constitutional court, and I think it was very, very educational for all those involved, both politically and legally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112161014	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we go to the Minister for Justice who has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112161031	Thank you for the debate. It is in my clear memory that, according to the Rules of Procedure, I have not actually just looked it up. In fact, a minister is not obliged to go up and take the floor after a question debate. But it is also the case that it is considered extremely bad style if the Minister does not do so, and especially if the Minister has not said so before. And in a situation where control of the government is discussed, it would be even more reprehensible to try to avoid being controlled by the members of parliament present, since they have the first parquet for that séance. So I just have to say that the government, on the part of my party, will help to look at this with an open mind in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. And the government obviously makes itself available for advice and deed in the work to be carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112161135	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place only on Tuesday 19, as has been announced. January.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112161215	The debate is open and we shall give the floor first to the acting Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112161300	Thank you for the motion for a resolution on the possibility of applying for a derogation for up to, for example: 10% camping units to allow camping guests to stay throughout the year at the campsite. As the rules are today, there is no legal basis in the cottage law or in the camping regulations for you to stay throughout the winter at a campsite. Campsites may be used for camping during the period from 1 March to 31 October. During the winter period from 1 November to 28 February, a municipality may authorise winter camping, with the possibility of a short stay of 15-20 days, for weekends etc. However, no winter camping permit may be granted in areas designated as particularly valuable landscape, natural area or the like, e.g.: in the municipal plan, unless winter permits have already been granted before February 2000. However, regardless of whether winter camping has been authorised, full-year residence is not permitted. It is therefore a premise for the rules that campsites are used exclusively for holiday or other short stays. The motion for a resolution instructs the government to put forward legislative proposals, by the end of this parliamentary year at the latest, introducing a derogation from the rules that stay on campsites during the winter period from 1 November to 28 February can only last up to 15-20 days. The motion for a resolution follows up a current series on TV2 • Trailerpark Denmark • which has documented the life of a number of people who have been permanently resident on campsites for a period of time, but several have been asked by the municipality to move, as the law does not allow for this. I can easily understand the veneration of the people we have seen on TV 2, and I share it too. They are people who are happy with the way they have lived in the campsites for some time. However, it is important to bear in mind that the current ban on long-term winter camping and full-year residence in campsites is justified on several grounds, among others. nature conservation, public access to natural areas, etc. Let me highlight three points in particular. First of all, I think it is important to be aware of what an opening up of full-year residence in campsites will create from housing social conditions. Where campsites have become permanent residents against the rules, people typically live in caravans or something similar. We must ensure that the campsites do not develop into so-called trailer parks or a kind of tent camp where people live permanently in dwellings etc. that are not suitable for full-year residence. It is important that full-year housing is both health, safety and environmentally sound. The rules of the building regulations are laid down today. Housing must not expose residents to risks which we, as a welfare society, cannot vouch for or which burden the climate, for example. Because they are not well isolated. We in Denmark have a high standard of housing that people live throughout the year. A high quality of housing is an essential part of our welfare society, and the Social Democracy has worked to improve the quality of housing for decades. We must continue to offer healthy and safe housing and, above all, housing must meet the ambitious climate targets that we, as a society, have committed ourselves to achieving in the coming years. Secondly, many campsites are coastal and in scenic surroundings. These are areas that we want to protect, for example. areas very close to the coast, but where we have allowed camping to allow ordinary Danes to take a holiday in these beautiful nature surroundings. If we open up the possibility that these lands can be occupied for a whole year by different people who want it, then we are moving on to that balance in terms of nature protection. This leads to more work on the precious nature that we all enjoy. It is precisely for this reason that in a number of areas we do not allow camping at campsites in winter. This is precisely in order for the natural and coastal areas to be protected, but not overloaded. Thirdly, I think it is important to bear in mind that the rules on camping help ensure that we have camping as an offer to the general public for a different and cheap form of holiday close to nature and coastal areas. The campsites are therefore designed for short holiday and leisure stays and not for a full year's residence. And there is therefore a risk that the full-year residence will change the specific cultural environment of the campsites as a recreational holiday and leisure area that is available to all ordinary Danes. Campsites must be breath holes and resorts where both Danish and foreign tourists can take vacation without having to pay in expensive sentences for it. We have to hold on to that. That is why, overall, the government is sceptical about amending the summer house law and the camping regulations in this area, and so the government cannot support the resolution either. It is in this respect the Government's view that since the resolution also concerns campsites within the beach protection line, it is covered by the compromise on Denmark in better balance, in daily terms called the plan-law settlement. Having said that, I think it is essential to look at how to give people the opportunity to live differently, also in a little untraditional way, and I and my ministry would like to enter into dialogue with KL about the demand for alternative housing and also look at models to live differently, also at campsites outside particularly valuable areas. But I think it should be properly thought into the cities and landscape and be in proper conditions that are safe, healthy and environmentally friendly. I do not think this should happen by our campsites turning into trailer parks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112161920	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112161926	Thank you. I'd like to sign for the Minister's speech. I am, of course, astonished that the Minister cannot see the sense of this resolution, because that goes without saying. Perhaps I think that what is a little characteristic of this is that the Minister is based on the idea that it should be a full-year residence. That word was repeated several times in the Minister's speech, but that is not what is being proposed in this motion for a resolution. Now there has not been much time for that, but I hope the Minister has had time to read the motion for a resolution. It's just that we put some of this decision-making power into the individual municipalities, so that they can assess whether there are some places where these campsites will be able to grant a greater derogation than the maximum. 15-20 days during the 4 months in which the campsite must otherwise be closed. I would therefore just like to ask whether the Minister has actually read the motion for a resolution and is aware that it is not a proposal which specifically talks about the residence of the whole year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162037	Yes, and I also think that I started by explaining quite thoroughly what the current rules are and where they are, this proposal differs from the current rules. What I also drew attention to was the fact that what the authors of the motion for a resolution imagine here is something which will be a slippery path towards full-year residence, and we do not want that. When there is the balance in it today, it is precisely in the light of the principles that I set out, that is to say, that we have to ensure that the places where one lives properly, which we believe could be out of place in relation to the balance between a holiday home and a camping home, if one did what the proposers imagine should be proper conditions. We fear that it could change if we went that way, and then there is a consideration of nature, a consideration of cultural landscape, etc., so we are sceptical about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162138	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162139	Thank you. I actually think the Minister just repeated what was wrong. The minister said it would be a slippery path towards the full-year residence. How can it be a slippery path to give municipalities a derogation that could be more than 15-20 days over four months? It doesn't say anywhere in here that it's supposed to be all-year residences, so I find it hard to see where the slide is. If the authority we give to the municipalities, without having to ask for law elsewhere, is that you simply extend the periods, that is to say, that you go from 15 to 20 days to a larger number of days during the four months, it does not make full-year residence legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162219	I imagine, then, that the reason why you want a derogation is that it should be possible to use it. And the very definition of a slippery slope is that we are approaching something that we do not want, and that is what I have been trying to explain. So I cannot quite understand now if, on the basis of my speech and my answers here, the rapporteur for the proposers cannot conclude what the government thinks about this matter and why.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162245	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. We are embarking on the rapporteur's line, and it is first the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Møller. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162308	Thank you. Following on from the Minister's speech here, it can be said that we in the Social Democratic Party believe that campsites should be used for holiday and recreational purposes and not for full-year residence. So we are back in the discussion that has just been going on, i.e. whether this is a proposal for a full-year residence and, of course, one can discuss that. What can be said is that, in its form, the proposal provides for the possibility of a full-year residence. It may well be that you choose to do it differently in different places, but it does actually give the opportunity, and that is what the concern here is, because we do not believe that this is the intention of the Planning Act or the Summer House Act in relation to the part that is here. That's why we're not so excited about it. As a starting point, we will try to work on a report that will hopefully bring together a broad majority. I wonder whether it is not based on some romantic concept of the community that you can create by creating an alternative living environment; that is, the cozy thing that is, being together about something that is different from what everyone else is doing. But the concern is, of course, in the long term that some of what has been proposed in the proposal is that it may then be 10%. of the total number of seats, because what I have heard is that there are some who say: Well there are some individuals for whom this way of possibly settling or living is really good. And I should not be able to deny that it may have some very good elements in it. But the problem is that if we set a limit of 10 per cent, as has been proposed here, it will in most cases be a two-digit number of families or people who will do so, because of the size of the different campsites. It is clear that, as a starting point, we also have concerns about the housing standard. So you can say, "Well, you gotta get involved in how people want to live?" And it can be said that we did a little, if we look at Peter Bellis's song "Bli' away from our neighborhood" about Vesterbro, where the starting point was that they kind of lived well, and that others should not put their disgusting hand on how they decorated and how they lived. But I think that when we look at history in this way, we are actually very pleased that we had the ladies in the courtyard abolished and thus made proper housing arrangements there. It's the slippery slope that we're afraid it's in relation to making a real trailer park. After all, we think that the municipalities actually have a great many opportunities today to go in and, you might say, to deal with the housing challenges that are around crooked homes. We are also working on the part of the Social Democrats to see whether, in relation to the New Construction Fund, which is located in the whole housing sector, we can actually create some cheaper housing if that is the starting point for this. So it is no secret that we on the part of the Social Democrats are not so enthusiastic about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162643	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162644	Thank you. Of course, I would be surprised if the rapporteur disagreed with his own minister, so what was said in the rapporteur's speech was expected. Nevertheless, I should like to ask the rapporteur something. The rapporteur mentions, among other things: the word trailer park, and I fully agree that this debate has been very much on the table, and you can also move into a great idea of how to define what a trailer park is versus a campsite. But I just think that when we are discussing it here in the Danish Parliament, we should start from what is under negotiation, and it is not that we are going to legitimise trailer parks in Denmark, but that we should give the municipalities greater freedom of movement to choose whether to be more than 15-20 days out of 4 months in a winter season at a campsite. What we are proposing is that the municipalities themselves should find out what makes good sense in relation to their local campsites, rather than having a rigid discussion about it in here at Christiansborg. And what I am perhaps a little lacking in an answer from the rapporteur is whether you do not want to recognise that the municipalities can actually manage this themselves and make an assessment instead of having to legislate on it from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162801	I don't know. After all, we can go back to the summer house legislation and see how the municipalities administer this scheme very, very differently, in terms of whether or not you grant permission for a full year's residence. There I can specifically take the starting point of the municipality of Helsingør and the municipality of Gribskov, where Helsingør managed according to the legal framework and did not grant a derogation, whereas in the municipality of Gribskov, there was virtually no derogation. It's just to say that the municipalities are different in their approach to this. It is the case that we have made legislation which, as a starting point, says that this should be for holiday and recreational purposes, and that is why some restrictions have been placed on how long in the winter period you can be there. I would just like to say again that I am here to say that, in relation to the proposal, it is the municipality itself that can go in and administer, but it also provides them with a clear framework for actually allowing some form of permanent residence. And there's just that the risk is, if we're out there, it's 10%. on a campsite with about 200 campsites, that is to say 20 campsites, where you can actually grant permission for a full year's residence as a starting point from the municipality's point of view. And then it is clear that we also have a concern that some municipalities choose to use this as a cheap way of solving their housewife problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162919	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112162921	Now it is a figure that appears from the comments on the motion for a resolution, so if the Socialists think it should be 5%. Instead, we would like to be a part of the resolution if that is what makes it possible for us to get a majority in favour of it. We've just suggested 10%. as a thought example. However, I would like to arrest what the rapporteur has said about flexible housing and the permits granted by the municipalities. Does the rapporteur not also recognise that we have some other problems in relation to the administration that is already taking place in the municipalities? Not far from here in walking distance we have Christiania, and we also have lots of homeless people living in colonial garden houses in the Copenhagen area and elsewhere. Does the rapporteur not recognise that the municipalities are actually able to resolve these issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163008-2	Yes, you can say that the municipalities do, but that is also why I say that they do in very different ways, and I just do not think that a campsite should be another tool in the toolbox that the municipalities have to solve the housing challenges that exist. But, as the Minister also did, I would like to conclude by saying that, with regard to drawing up a report, we are open to looking in the report to find some sort of common solution. Now we have expressed what concerns we have about the motion for a resolution that lies here, but if we can find something that can bring us all together, then of course it will be best for the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163049	Then it's Mrs. Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163052	Thank you. I fully agree with what the rapporteur says. It must not become a toolbox for municipalities to simply be able to refer vulnerable citizens to a campsite. Having said that, however, I think that there is one thing that is important in this discussion, and that is that we are also talking about the development of the campsites. Because I think it's being talked about as if it's almost a place where there's a mess, and so on. A lot of campsites have really good all-year cabins, and a lot of people who like to go out to the campsites have good, heated full-year caravans. In view of the freedom that exists in being able to choose within a limited area and within a limited number of units, does the rapporteur not recognise that, since one can now do it in one's own boat in marinas around, there can be good music in that one could also be allowed to stay longer at a campsite than is now allowed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163202	I tend to maintain, both when we talk boats, when we talk cottages, and when we talk camping sites, that the starting point is still something holiday-wise, something recreational. As a starting point, it has never been intended that this should actually be a form of permanent residence. But I also think that in the last speech, like the Minister, I suggested that we are willing to discuss it if we go outside what in this case must be called the beach-building line. If there are some places where this can make sense in relation to the municipalities and the areas, let's discuss it. As a starting point, it is still not something that we think is right, but we recognise that there will of course be some people who think that this is a good way to fit in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163257	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman is apostate. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163302	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he thinks that it is an expression of confidence in people that politicians will decide how to live. So, what right do you have as a politician to dictate how people should live if some people want to live in a caravan? Do you really think it's a politician's right to say: No, you're going to live in a general home, or you're going to live in a house, because I think that's the right thing to do? If those people want to live in a caravan, what is wrong with having that wish, and why should it not be allowed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163340	I am going to repeat myself in saying what was actually the starting point when we made campsites, what was the legal basis for this, and what was the starting point when we made summer cottage areas. It was in this way that it was not to be used for the full year's habitation, but for natural reasons, for leisure reasons and for tourist reasons, the starting point was that this was what they were making these lands for. I just think that we basically have a different approach to this very question. I understand, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen thinks it's paternal that you somehow limit the possibilities for this. I actually think it's very sensible. In my introduction, I also mentioned the Vesterbro thing, where there was some compulsion, and there was also the attitude: why do you have to interfere with this? Well, it was because we wanted to have decent, modern and sensible housing for people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163435	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163437	I now believe that at some point the citizens would probably have stopped shitting in the yard, regardless of whether the politicians had decided it or not. But when it comes to this, one aspect is the area, that is, the campsite, and there may be some areas near the coast and near some nature that you say should not be full-time. But what if you made an area somewhere else that there wasn't that protection? Could the rapporteur then see that if people wanted to live in a caravan, they could live there? You could make a local plan where people could then live in caravans, just as we have local plans on where there should be general housing, where there should be commercial construction, and where there should be parcel houses or other places to be built up according to a local plan. Could we not also adopt a local plan on where people could move in with caravans if that was the kind of accommodation they wanted?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163523	Well, I would say that these must be very, very modern caravans, which I think must somehow comply with some building regulations. I think there are a great many municipalities that have been good at thinking in crooked housing, in flexible housing and in housing for those who find it difficult to stay in space, one can say, in the traditional housing stock, and I think that is more the way we should go. Because otherwise it will be really trailer parks, and I just don't think that's the way we from Denmark should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163553	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163609	Thank you. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution in which it is proposed to introduce the possibility of a derogation from the rules on camping during the winter period, which is currently only allowed for 15 to 20 days. One might say that camping and domestic holidays are perhaps a particularly obvious topic to discuss in these times. I think that we have all felt over the summer how there has been congestion, perhaps especially in Jutland, both at campsites and in summer houses, especially in 2020, where you did not have the opportunity to visit abroad. And then it is nice that there is a great demand for camping opportunities, and that the Danes actually want to make use of them, and that very many Danes actually enjoy spending holidays and for that matter also extended holidays at campsites. All in all, there are a lot of Danes who have taken the camping life to heart. And I can understand what they are doing, because with the freedom that is also about to camp, whether you are in a campsite or for that matter going around from place to place, it is somehow a break in everyday life and an opportunity to both experience the country in a good way and not least to be close to nature. In fact, I think that this resolution has some good things. And it is in this way that we in the Left are prepared to see whether there could be a good opportunity for a joint report text to be produced for this resolution, because I think that an attempt should actually be made to open up more. We know about someone that there has been a development, including in the Danes, in relation to wanting to be more out in nature. We know that among other things. Something like winter bathing is one of the things that is increasing. And I have to say that I really think that we should allow this to happen and, for that matter, try to have a joint report drawn up so that we can move forward. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for bringing the debate up here today. And I look forward to discussing this further in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163839	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112163904	Thank you. I really think that this is a pretty cool resolution to be allowed to discuss in this Chamber, because there are a lot of things that are mentioned when we discuss this. We are discussing nature and the environment, we are discussing housing conditions and we are discussing socially vulnerable areas and where municipalities can place their citizens under a motion for a resolution on campsites. I think that's actually pretty cool. I understand from the acting Minister for Economic Affairs that, overall, one is sceptical. I think that is what was said. I think that, overall, we should be quite positive about this motion for a resolution, and that is not because I do not hear all the concerns that may be, because there are clearly also some things that I think are major obs-points when we look at this motion for a resolution. In fact, I think that there are some areas that can give rise to major concerns, or at least some things in relation to nature and the environment that should be brought with us when we look at this. And as the Minister himself said in his review, there are already some existing rules for camping in certain areas, and there are some campsites where camping is not allowed in the winter season either. I am also very aware of all this about the fact that it must not be a form of alternative housing where the municipalities can send the citizens to whom they have little difficulty in getting them located. In fact, I think this is a really important point which we should be very aware of when we discuss it here, namely that this must not be an easy solution for the municipalities, so they can now say it roughly • get rid of some troublesome citizens. I do not think that the municipalities want to get rid of their citizens, but I say this a little harshly to put it at the forefront. For God's sake, I don't think it should be. But I also think we should be careful not to think too much in boxes when we sit in here. We tend to think that everyone should live in the way that we ourselves understand as the good way of living and living. I think there are a lot of other ways to live and live, and I actually think that as far as the documentary series is concerned, or what to call it, which may have given a little inspiration to this motion for a resolution, and which has been mentioned several times from up here, namely "Trailerpark Denmark', it does not show a rosy or romantic image of living on a campsite, but I think it shows that there are some people who have some other preferences and a desire to live in a different way, and I just want us to find an opportunity to accommodate from in here; that we are a little cooperative in finding solutions where we naturally look after our environment and our nature and look after vulnerable citizens so that they do not get into trouble, but so we also meet those people who want to live in a slightly different way. That is why I am very pleased that more people are positive about looking at how we can proceed from here. There will certainly be a positive approach to the work of the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164248	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164306	Thank you. I hadn't thought in my wildest imagination that I should be allowed to stand here again after 5 months, but Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen is good at having children, so she continued, and of course I am very happy about that. I come back to a coronatide, of course, but that's also what I come from as a teacher. Out in the real world, I was allowed to taste the way things stand out in our day care centers, even while I've been away. I wish I could tell you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby of the Danish People's Party that we are in favour of motion for a resolution No. B 77. After all, this is about dispensing from the rules on time-limited camping during the winter months. The purpose of camping is for individuals to be able to stay for less time and in connection with their holidays, in other words in a holiday area, and we in the SF think this is how it should continue. We do not want a split, as we see in the United States, a trailer park where citizens live in caravans and in tents and in other things that may not be intended for residential use. Of course, there may be citizens who, for one reason or another, find it difficult to live in an ordinary home, but we think that should be solved in another way. The municipalities had the opportunity at some point to seek some pools for the skewed homes of the heres, but the pools were not used in full. This summer we actually saw how these open-air options were used and it was suddenly hyped and cool to get out into our nature, and we hope that it will continue to be, and that is why we are also afraid that we will start taking the seats that are being set up here, perhaps there is not the space that needs to be used. We believe that campsites should be an attractive resort for people who want to camp, and therefore SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164520	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164522	Thank you. Well, first of all, welcome back. I wish the SF had the same balanced attitude, if you can call it that, in relation to what you have to do elsewhere. For I have the impression that SF and other similar parties do not have so much objection that we have a Christiania and everything else here in Denmark. I have never experienced SF as those who have opposed that there are some who want to live differently. That is why I am a little surprised that we have to see SF talk about a campsite having to be something like Morten Korch, because it shouldn't be; it should be a place where people thrive and where people are happy to be in their spare time. That must be the very first thing. So, when the rapporteur goes in and makes this a debate about trailer parks in the United States, would I like to ask: is the rapporteur not aware that the alternative for many of the people who unfortunately live and stay in trailer parks in the United States is to be homeless? Well, it's that simple. Does SF really think it's better to be homeless than living in a trailer park?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164638	I think that Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby says so fine: that campsites are places where people can spend their spare time. I think campsites should be, and they won't be with this. This is something that works towards a perennial residence, and that's not the plan. That said, of course, SF does not think that if this is not possible, people should be put on the street. No, then the municipalities have an obligation to help them find a decent place to live. And having said that, there has been a pool for crooked homes, where we have the opportunity to do something built for the purpose and that pool we could see if was used or if there are some options that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164724	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164725	In other words, the comment was in relation to the American situation; it was the one the rapporteur used as an argument against this proposal. This is equivalent to mixing sour herring with Danish nylon socks. In other words, these are two very different things. This is not a trailer park for Americans, for whom else the possibility will be that they will be homeless. No, then I would like to ask the rapporteur about the fact that it has to be a place where you are on holiday. But what about the many Danes who can afford to buy a leisure home? Should we then also decide when to stay in your leisure home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164804	I do not think my purpose was to mix sour herring and nylon stockings, I have to say; it was not. But I say again that we have the opportunity to look at the pot for the crooked homes and find another solution. We would like to take a look at this solution, but not to go in and take the campsites at our campsites.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164824	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164826	Thank you. I shall just try to find out a little more about what the SF's rapporteur really means. As I see this motion for a resolution, it is really an opportunity and, for that matter, also a reasonably managed opportunity to open up more days in the winter period, and I would like to ask: in recent years it has been the way that, among other things, there has been. is also built more and more shelters around where a lot of Danes enjoy spending the night, for that matter also year-round. Does the SF's rapporteur think that we too, for example, should be in favour of the creation of the single market? for the shelters are about to make some restrictions on when to spend the night there etc.? Because that's really what worries me a little. I have always thought that SF was in favour of there being room for everyone and really also room for diversity. Then the rapporteur thinks that among other things. Something like that that heroes don't have to be something people can just come and spend the night in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164929	I think that the rapporteur is right here mixing sour herring and nylon stockings, and that is because you cannot have a fixed address and that sort of thing exactly in shelters. Shelters lie out in nature, where we can go out and have an experience and move on to the next one, so I don't think you can mix that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164955	Here you go, Anni Mattiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112164956	But then let me give you another example if this was too much acidic herring. What about the houseboats? What about the boats? All Danes may have an opportunity to buy a boat and in this way also choose to spend very, very many days, even during winter, if that is what you want. What does SF think about this compared to the campsites?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165021	Before I go in and learn about houseboats, because I really don't know much about that, the rules are a little different. There's talk of dispensing for 10%. and not for an entire period of time. So I shall be the rapporteur's answer to what is the difference between houseboats and campsites.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165043	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur, and then we go to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr Gundelach's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165110	B 77 is, of course, a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on a derogation from the rules on fixed-term camping in the winter months just to clarify it on top of the debate that has been going on lately. The proposal seeks to grant a derogation from the rules of the camping regulations on the limitation of winter stays on campsites to short stays. The derogation is intended to make it possible to spend winter time in campsites and thus to make it possible for campsites to live for a full year. That is how Enhedslisten reads the proposal, and that is what we are dealing with. There are some groups of people who want that opportunity, and some find that this is a cheap solution in relation to the rent for a regular accommodation. Enhedslisten has a great understanding of this problem and sees it as an expression of a basic lack of cheap housing in Danish society and at the same time for far too low social benefits. But is the way forward to allow for a full year's residence in our campsites? As a starting point, the campsites have been set up to provide a cheap way of holidaying in Denmark. It is to be feared that the proposal will open up the possibility that more people will use campsites for specific residential purposes and thus exclude the group of people originally intended for the campsites for leisure and not for residential purposes. In addition, there is the problem of the quality of housing. We have a view, there's 10 degrees of frost one night here in a very short time. What's it gonna be like living in a trailer that night? I think it is reasonable that we should have a building code which sets standards for what kind of housing we have in Denmark. And there I do not think camping habitation can live up to those standards. I think it is important to discuss how to ensure more cheap housing, and it is a good thing that the last Green Housing Agreement made it clear that the New Construction Fund should be set in motion by taking an increased focus on building more general, low-cost housing. I also note that there is a tendency in society for some people to want to minimize their housing square meters in terms of Tiny houses and work to develop it. I also note that there are people like myself who appreciate living in communities where you try to have a smaller dwelling, in return for having a few square meters in some common houses and having some common facilities that can make you have a good life there. So we are not there where we want to go in the direction of the municipalities being allowed to grant dispensation so that you can stay for a full year at a campsite. We believe that it is a slippery path for some people to be pressured to choose it as an emergency solution, and we do not like that. You can probably find examples of some people who think it is a good solution and it might be interesting to ask them that morning, where there is 10 degrees of frost, whether they are still gone there at 10 o'clock. 9 a.m. considers this to be a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165448	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165452	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur then used his speaking time to turn this into a debate on full-year or not full-year, and I would just like to arrest and draw attention to the fact that it is not as such the subject of this motion for a resolution. There is an increased municipal autonomy to decide individually, but it is not the case that we are going in here and suggesting that there should be a full-year residence in caravans. The rapporteur also mentions the building regulations. I am well aware that caravans are not covered by the building regulations; they are a rolling dwelling, and therefore they are subject to other legislation. And then I would like to ask the rapporteur something, because now the rapporteur mentioned that it will soon be 10 minus degrees, and when the 10 minus degrees come and the frost passes through all of us and we think of the little girl with the sulphur sticks and everything else, the rapporteur thinks that we are over at Christiania, here next door, we are complying with the building regulations and have good insulation and good heat on, etc. and comply with all the rules and regulations as there are, or is Enhedslisten also prepared that the rules that you want to apply to these campsites should also apply over Christiania?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165609	Christiania, as far as I know, is not a campsite, so you can't make that comparison. I know that the standard of living at Christiania is different, and I also believe that it has some negative consequences in terms of health for some of the people who have lived in too poor housing for many years. So I really think that the example that is being pulled forward supports the fact that it is essential that people have a decent accommodation to live in. And the rapporteur says that this is not, of course, a whole-year residence issue, but in practice, if a municipality is allowed to grant derogations, so that some can live on a campsite throughout the winter, we know that this is a housing situation which seems to be of a slightly more permanent nature. So it may well be that, in relation to some regulation, it cannot be regarded as a permanent residence, but it is, in fact, a life so that, with a municipal permission, you would like to see from the proposers that you can live all winter on a campsite.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165717	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165717-2	Thank you. Now it was the rapporteur who spoke about this as a discussion on building regulations, and then I just thought it was a little funny, because a caravan I know is something quite different. Furthermore, I would also like to say to the rapporteur that it is the case that if you take many of the caravans that some choose to use for what is called a full-year habitation or a full-year farm, these are people who, for example, heat their caravans with quite safe energy sources, typically with ovens, i.e. with gas ovens, etc. So it can easily be done, even at a significantly higher level of safety than what you experience, for example, over in the harbor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165759-2	Well, I actually thought that this proposal was about the municipalities being allowed to grant a derogation and not a great Christiania debate. We do not think that the municipalities should be given an opportunity to grant derogations to allow people to live throughout the year on a campsite. As a starting point, we think this is a bad solution. Now I come from Aarhus myself, and there you use the campsites at the start of your studies to make sure that some students rent themselves into camping cabins and the like, and in summer this is an excellent temporary solution to an acute housing problem, but I don't think that opening up camping sites all year round is a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165836	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112165902	Thank you. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution on a derogation from the rules on temporary camping in the winter months. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for making the proposal. It is good to be out, and especially in these times, when fresh air and new outdoor spaces can provide room for social gatherings under safe, corona-proof conditions. Camping is freedom, it is fresh air, it is experiences for the whole family, and it is a presence with nature. It's a popular holiday form, and it's a holiday form that my family and I love very much. For many years the tourism industry has worked hard to extend the season, and with the milder weather and more modern caravans there is a good opportunity to create more life and get more guests in depopulated areas throughout Denmark and thus also secure more jobs locally. Today there are some 450 campsites, and about 150 of the campsites have a winter camping permit. With the resolution, there is a desire to introduce a derogation from the rules that, during the winter months from 1 November to 28 February, stays at campsites may only last up to 15 to 20 days. Although many people, both Danes and tourists, see camping life as something that belongs to leisure time and holidays, there is also a group of people who want better opportunities to camp throughout the year and thus also for longer periods of winter. So far, the municipalities have had to instruct the citizens concerned to stop their stay at a campsite when the stay has lasted longer than 15-20 days. The municipalities usually justify the injunctions by the fact that the legislation does not allow for longer stays. There are resourceful people who want closer contact with nature. These today have no opportunity to spend the night close to nature all year round. A derogation is a good idea as a starting point, but in the story of the good life on the Danish campsites we must not forget that unfortunately there is also a darker chapter, which deals with children growing up at campsites. For the Conservative People's Party in it is important that campsites are not used by municipalities as a storage site for vulnerable citizens, and certainly not their children. It is important that the municipality takes their responsibility and ensures an outreach social effort and thus also another offer of accommodation for these citizens. That is why we would also like to table an amendment to the motion for a resolution in order to ensure a good balance where a trial period is opened, a special arrangement whereby the municipality can allow full-year camping at campsites authorised for winter camping for a smaller number of units in each place. At the same time, we must ensure that resourceless families do not settle on campsites in the absence of better accommodation, so that children do not grow up in a awning and an uninsulated caravan. The children's conditions are the back of the outdoor life that many outdoor enthusiasts associate with camping. I hope we will do the same in the future. But it must also be a future where children in need families are written out of the story because we have given them a safer and more stable life. It is important for the Conservative People's Party that the camping regulations are complied with so that winter camping takes place only at campsites located outside particularly valuable areas, including outside the beach protection line and dune protected areas. It is, and has always been, a conservative matter of heart to improve the conditions of the most vulnerable citizens, and children are of course particularly important here. That is why this proposal for a business policy also has a social policy side which we would like to make sure is even sharper in the proposal. We are therefore in favour of the proposal as a starting point. But it is on the understanding that we can adapt the wording so that we can take care of and protect our children as best we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112170302	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur, and then we go to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and that is Mr Beazley. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112170311	Thank you. Well, it's a nice discussion about trailer parks. Now I've been living in the United States and I've seen some of those trailer parks. I like American history, and without it going to be a long story, I'd like to go back to their story. Because it is true that they came in the early 1900s where they were used because there were not so many hotels. And then it happened in the 1930s, after the crashes 1929, that there were many who had to find cheap housing close to their work, so that they could still fit it away. But it wasn't actually that large a number. The great boom actually came in the late 1930s and early 1940s, around World War II, where a great many soldiers needed to be mobile. The state needed this, so there were a lot of these mobile homes that the soldiers could live in so that they could be transported around the bases. Then, when World War II ended, we had this problem with what to do with all the mobile homes. But then all these soldiers came home, and in the United States it is so that if you are singled out in the army, then you get paid your college: You get the opportunity to go to university. But they didn't have enough houses to house all those who were pulled into the universities afterwards, and then they just moved those mobile homes to the universities. You can see this at Stanford and other places where they had made these big trailer parks, as they were then called, with mobile homes, where the students at the universities lived. In fact, in the 1950s and 1960s, it was a period in which the income index could be seen that people living in trailer parks actually had a higher level of income than people living in normal houses. It's just to give a picture that this trailer park thing might be a little more nuanced than you might think. Then it is true that in the 1970s and 1980s this shift happened around trailer parks, where some of them went to be what you call affordable homes, because you simply couldn't afford to settle in other homes, and then you chose it. And then there were some social problems in relation to the mobile homes. Then there is the second part of them, i.e. the ones you call recreative homes. There you can still see to this day that there are trailer parks called luxury trailer parks, where there are what are called gated communities, where there are simply guards outside, and there are theatres that are swimming pools and all sorts of other things that people can use, gyms and everything else. But they are simply being used today as a way to downsize your economy. You can compare it a little with that Mr. and Mrs. Denmark has a large parcel house of 230 m2, and when the children leave home, what do they do? Then they move into a small apartment. In American society they move so often in a trailer park because they feel that it is a more free life where a smaller degree of their monthly income is to be spent on housing, and they also do not need so much space. So it was just a story that it's a little more nuanced with trailer parks. When you see the program on TV 2, which is then called "Trailerpark Denmark" and which focuses very much on one part of it, i.e. in relation to some of the people who have social problems and have some things that they work with, I think you should remember to look at it as one unit, and then you should look at the other unit: that there are actually people who choose it out of their own free will, because they think it is right for them to do it in their lives and their lives. So we basically think that this is a good proposal from the Danish People's Party. We believe that politicians should meddle less in the Danes' lives, and this is a good example of it. And then we think that civil society can solve that. I am not afraid that there will be such a huge explosion of what we can then call trailer parks, where socially vulnerable people will settle in these campsites. A camping manager probably wouldn't have that at all, and there he would say: No, goodbye and thanks I don't have to have any trouble, because it's very, very bad for my business in the long run. I do not think this will be a problem, so we think it is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112170706	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. I cannot see the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance just now, so we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112170733	Thank you. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to sign the debate we have had on this motion for a resolution. It is true, as we have also clarified in our motion for a resolution, that it has its roots in the television programme that has been on TV 2, the Trailer Park Denmark, and the advantages and disadvantages that are here. And I actually think that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen well illustrated his historical background in relation to the American way of doing so, so you can't just say, "Gone, don't do it." One has to look at things individually; one has to assess: is this positive, or is it not positive? After all, the rapporteur from the Radicals said something of the same about this. Mrs Katrine Robsøe mentioned that, overall, it was positive but, of course, it was necessary to look into whether there were some places where it would hit socially wrong, for example, and there was something about nature and the environment and coastal problems, etc. Of course, we also share that concern in the Danish People's Party • we think it is common sense. But what is not common sense is that today we have a rigid system which makes it impossible for local authorities to give priority to local authorities. There is a good framework, but they cannot be allowed to give priority to whether, in the specific cases, it gives a good and sensible balance to offer, for example, some kind of derogation in relation to having more people on the campsites during the winter season in order to make the season longer and also to be able to increase earnings. Does it matter if you do something more flexible? Do you mind if we get something closer to the citizens? Do you mind if we give people more rights? Yes, it seems to do so at least when you listen to others. The government and others in this case. Then you do not want to listen to the citizens and those who want to use, for example, to stay in a caravan on a campsite longer than 15-18 days, or whatever it is, out of the 4 months. Several rapporteurs mentioned this with the Danish holiday patterns. Yeah, but what's in that vacation pattern? In the old days, I had almost said when I was 30, it was said that people were off work for weeks 27, 28 and 29, or it was weeks 28, 29 and 30. That was the flexibility that existed. Nowadays, people are taking vacations across the seasons, and a lot of those taking vacations are folk pensioners, they are pensioners, and they are the people who deliberately choose to take their vacation at other times, partly in order to get more tranquillity and partly in order to get lower prices. In fact, I think we need to take care of the fact that there is actually a change going on in relation to what kind of a way Danish citizens choose to spend their leisure time, including in terms of holidays. Now in today's discussion we have discussed when to stay in a heated and even very modern and often well-equipped caravan on a campsite. But the fact that people are wandering around the Fedade over here for lye and cold water and a little hash, nobody talks about that, you think it's quite fair. You also think it is quite fair that people take advantage of their summerhouses across the seasons. There are a lot of people who spend an extended weekend in their summer house... they leave Friday when they get off work, and then they may come back Monday. A lot of people do things differently. This motion for a resolution should be seen as a positive one, at least that is what we intended, so that people should see that here we actually have an opportunity to organise people's opportunities to choose to be on campsites a little less rigged than what you are experiencing today. We have even said in this specific proposal that we just want the Folketing to be involved in the introduction of a derogation so that local authorities, technical committees or the planning and environmental committees, or what the various committees are called in the municipalities, can go in politically and say: we have an application from x campsite; they want to use eight seats a year for them and the purposes we can agree to, or can we not agree to? Then we just think that we should not start to see all the problems looming up on the horizon and say that it is awful that people will not sit in their apartment all week; at least they shouldn't be living in a caravan, for if it should happen that they got a little more fresh air. Then there has been a discussion that there is not enough isolation and that they do not comply with the building regulations. Yeah, well, you don't do that either, with a villainy place, there's no building regulations, I'd like to say, and are we going to introduce building regulations for tents or caravans? Well, there are some people who have decided that they will be against municipal autonomy in this area, and then you will find such small hairs in the soup. There are also places with a little more hair in the soup, I would say, and it is quite reasonable, as the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Bergman, said, that we should of course be safe in relation to those who may live there and have children with them during the age of authority, etc., because there is of course good sense in doing things about it. I have also said that I would very much like to take part in the text as it now appears in the report, whether it is a report or what we can do about this motion for a resolution. But with regard to how to define it here, I would say that this is not something we do because we want to kick people into social poverty and poverty. This is something we have done because we can actually see that the patterns that are in people's way of spending their spare time have changed. You don't just spend three weeks of industrial vacation, as it was called in the old days. Remember that? It was called industrial holiday, but that's not what it's called anymore; now it's just called vacation. Then we should also remember that when people get older on average that is why the retirement age is increasing in Denmark, it also means that some people have to work for several years. Yes, we have found that out, but it also means that some people are given more free time and that some people are given more money. Does it matter that they spend the money in Denmark rather than go on a charter trip to Costa del Sol? Wouldn't it be better if they spent the money on having a full-year campsite on a local campsite and took advantage of a caravan for that? That is what could happen if this resolution came into being. Unfortunately, some people do not think the time is right. We must, of course, regret this. I just think it's awkward, and I also think it's a little weird now we've been discussing shelters, yachts, houseboats, colonial gardens, flex accommodation and everything else, and all these places there is a local municipal authority to grant flex accommodation permits, for example, but just exactly in relation to camping, the Folketing just doesn't want it. We cannot really understand that in the Danish People's Party. We think it's kind of lame. But things have to mature. It takes time to get something adopted in the High Things, and that's why it's probably not the last time we're going to discuss this. I'll almost promise you that. However, as I have said, it is a pity that for four months of the year we have these very narrow and rigid ties on all the campsites in the country. Many of our campsites have actually invested in cabins and everything else that meets a wide range of improved requirements and specifications, precisely in terms of height, insulation and application at all. So they could also be used if you gave these permits and were a little more flexible. So the Danish People's Party would like to appeal to us to find a common text that can also embrace some of those who were a little more critical. I would like to interpret it as saying that the motion for a resolution itself has not read so much. Let us now, in committee, try to find a report. And then I think we can actually come up with some kind of model where we can give our municipalities a little snart municipal self-determination more. It is funny that not so long ago, when we had the opening debate of the Danish Parliament, it was quite a big issue on the part of the Prime Minister here on the platform that you should give the municipalities some freedom rights, and there were some municipalities that were appointed for various experiments on very far-reaching experiments, I would say ^ in relation to day care payments and all sorts of other things. Couldn't this be just a tiny little attempt to make things a little better? It is certainly the appeal of the Danish People's Party. But we are now sending it to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, and we hope, of course, that we will come up with a model. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112171647	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112171650	It's just that I'd like to make a comment about the caravans. There are modern caravans today. There are simply winter caravans that are isolated. The Swedes are experts in making caravans, so there can be minus 10-15 degrees. They are much better isolated than some of the old summer houses we have, or some of the full-year homes that we have around the country. So that is not where the problem lies. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Now he's saying the thing about passing the competences on to the municipal politicians. Could you not give out the skills to the chairman of the campsite, so he is the owner of the campsite who can decide if he wants it? Then it is not the local politicians who have to decide it, because then you just trade some politicians for someone else. Why should it not be civil society that decides this at a campsite?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112171733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112171734	You could say that, but that is not our approach to it. We still believe that it makes good sense for things to be clarified. Among other things, they do. in a political investigation in the municipalities. If you place the competence of the individual camping owner, then it can be very extensive compared to what it is, for example, for an owner who is at the campsite in question. I do not know all campsite owners in Denmark, but I know some of them. And they're very different. That is why we cannot have a model in which there is no form of municipal procedure. There are some demands to be made, and we have also tried to get them into the motion for a resolution under discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112171816	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112171818	Campsite owners are very different, but so are politicians, and I have also seen many fun local politicians out there who have all sorts of different views. So if you put it in one place or the other, it's gonna be okay. There's a difference. Can we not just say that in this area of exemption, the campsite owners have the opportunity to do so? Can we not have faith that they actually want the best for their campsite and that they will not do anything that just destroys the value of their site, but will actually do something that benefits their business? Is there really a need for some local politicians to run this in detail? Can't you also show confidence in these camping owners?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112171853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112171854	Now perhaps the rapporteur should be reminded that we are actually involved in the conciliation that is in this area, and I have no intention of going out and going against the settlement that the Danish People's Party has agreed to to get some of our own things with. But that does not change the fact that if you are to have a safe hand in granting local permits, you also have to show a guilty regard for the local elected people who sit in the municipalities concerned. It must be quite logical to have that approach to it. If you simply transfer the entire competence to the individual landowner, who happens to own a campsite, and that should be wild west and free play, then I do not think it would be a success, even to attract future tourists to the local area, which is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112171940	Thank you. There are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112171955	The debate is open. The President-in-Office of the Council has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112172052	Thank you for that and thank you for the opportunity to come here today and co-examine the two motions for resolutions, B 74 and B 97. Both resolutions are about giving municipalities increased opportunities to demand more general housing in their local plans. Today, municipalities have the possibility to set requirements of up to 25 per cent. general housing in local plans for new residential areas. New residential areas mean areas that are not already legally used for or are locally planned for housing purposes. With motion for a resolution B 97, it is proposed to amend the law on plans so that municipalities are able to demand 33 per cent. general housing in new residential areas, compared with the 25% that the Planning Act currently allows. At the same time, motion for a resolution B 74 provides for the municipalities to be able to demand 33 per cent. general housing in the context of new local plans for the congestion of existing urban areas. It appears that 33 per cent is required. general housing in this context should only apply to the new floor square meters, which are made possible by a new local plan. The requirement should therefore not include housing flooring meters, which the existing local plan already allows. Overall, this is an extension of the existing rule so that the requirement for general housing can generally be raised and can also be imposed in situations where the municipality in a local plan increases the residential area of an area already classified for housing purposes. Let me begin by saying that I have great sympathy for the desire to secure more mixed cities. If we are to ensure cohesion and cohesion in Danish society, mixed residential areas where we meet across social and ethnic divides are crucial. General housing plays an important role here. It is therefore also the government's clear ambition to secure more general housing, especially in the larger cities. Local authorities' ability to impose general housing requirements in local plans is an important tool. The possibility for municipalities to require 25%. general housing in new residential areas, was introduced by the then Social Democratic Minister for Housing, Carsten Hansen, in 2015 with agreement among others. the party of the proposers. And when the agreement was reached in 2016, it was a top priority for the Social Democracy to maintain this opportunity. We in the Social Democratic Party have also proposed before the elections to provide even better opportunities for municipalities to give priority to general housing in their planning, and this is also part of the understanding paper "Righteous direction for Denmark." Both motions for resolutions tabled will require a change in the law of plans. The Plan Act is settled with the agreement •Danmark in better balance sheet •Danmark from 2016. Any amendment to the Planning Act therefore requires agreement within the Conciliation Committee. It is the Social Democracy, the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party. I have checked in the conciliation circle whether there is support for the proposals. That is not the case, however. Of course, as part of a settlement, we in the government will respect if the entire conciliation group does not support a resolution. Against this background, the government cannot support the motions for resolutions either. In this context, I would like to note that we are currently in the process of evaluating the Planning Act, which I expect to be published in spring 2021. In the evaluation we see among other things. Broadly on the balance of planning legislation, including how the Planning Act can better support the municipalities' work to ensure a mixed and sustainable city. In this respect, we welcome all good proposals in relation to the rules of the law of plans, so that we can have a comprehensive political discussion of the law this spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112172459	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112172505	Thank you for your sympathy for the proposals, and that is all it lacked, since it is something that the Social Democrats have worked for before the parliamentary elections, and since it is also part of our common understanding of the government, that is to say, that we have to rise to 33%. in relation to new local planning areas. Now the Minister has also done a preparatory work and asked the conciliation parties whether they are involved in this at this stage. And it is a pity that they are not, because I see it as more and more people think mixed cities are a good idea. That is why I am also looking forward to the evaluation of the final legislative proposal, and the Minister now refers to the fact that this will only happen in spring 2021. I think that is a pity, because the text of the conciliation says that it should be done before 1 July 2020. So I think it's a shame it's obviously late. Now it is not because I expect the Minister, who has inherited the law of plans today, to go down in detail with it, but I think that, in fact, when we work on this with mixed cities, we should look at what the tools are. I hope the Minister can see that this is something that is important to proceed with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112172610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112172611	Yeah, I can certainly see that. And I'm quite interested in looking back into the history, in terms of what's agreed, in terms of when this evaluation is going to be. We have to get back to that. We think it is extremely important, as the proposer, that the municipalities have this tool, and that is why we do not just have sympathy with what we support in this way. However, as the questioner will know, there is a conciliation, and we respect that, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112172644	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112172646	Well, I see this as a commitment from the Minister to take this back to the Ministry of Industry and say: there is in fact another evaluation time in the conciliation text that the Minister would like to put forward to be loyal to. So I look forward to taking it back to the Department of Business. I know they've been busy with a little mink, but there are other important tasks that you have to deal with. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112172709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112172710	Yes, as I said, I am not quite familiar with the history, but in the government we are always in favour of keeping what we promise, so we look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112172722	There are no more brief comments. We are grateful to the Minister and then we start with the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Tanja Larsson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112172740	Thank you. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that municipalities should be given the opportunity to demand that up to one in three homes in new residential areas should be general. In addition, we in the Social Democratic Party are not only interested in a greater share of new residential areas being universal. We also have a goal that there should be greater opportunity and incentive to continue in existing residential areas. That is why the government has also put forward a bill which we first dealt with here in December. The aim of the bill is to strengthen the opportunities for general housing units to build more cheap housing in existing general housing areas. This will not only ensure more cheap housing for Danes with ordinary incomes, but also ensure more mixed residential areas. That is why we would like to thank Enhedslisten for focusing on the objectives here. Indeed, it is essential for the cohesion of our societies and for the fight against inequality that we live together across social, economic and ethnic divides. However, the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution calls for an amendment to the Planning Act, as the Minister has just mentioned, and this is the subject of a conciliation. Therefore, we can only amend the Planning Act if the conciliation parties agree on such a change. As the Minister also stated just now, there will be an evaluation of the Planning Act in the spring, and this evaluation will look at how we can better support our objective of building more cheap housing and ensuring more mixed residential areas. The Social Democratic Party does not support the motions for resolutions, but I would like to thank Enhedslisten very much for focusing on the social democracy's main objectives in the area of housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112172948	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112172952	Thank you, and thank you for your reception. I sometimes think that such conciliation is a bit too blocking, because I note that 25% of that is true. public housing in new local plans is something that is covered by the conciliation text. But I think you can read it in a different way. In other words, when you look at what to say about local plans with existing buildings, where the municipality wants a sealing, you might ask: Why should it be tied to a settlement? This is not, of course, a subject which has been discussed in the conciliation procedure. So I would actually like to challenge in committee whether these are all changes to the planning act, which you can sort of tie up with an agreement from 2016, which the more focused on construction on the coasts and such things. Should it then lock a majority in the Folketing from being able to do sensible things where you change at a corner of the law of plans? I don't think that's fair. I mean, I sometimes think that the regime of so many things being bound by the conciliation is limiting the parliamentary work. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173057	Thank you. Yes, I can well understand the rapporteur's position on this. I also have to say that I think that, most of all, you have the opinion if you are not part of the conciliation or if you do not just go in the direction you want to. I also think it is important that we shake hands with each other that when we have an agreement, we have an agreement. But I think it sounds really exciting that the rapporteur is taking it into the committee's work so that we can sort of have a look at it, because I am not going to be able to reject it so well here I do not know the law of plans that there may be some possibilities in the law of plans that I am not familiar with today. So I understand perfectly the frustration. Even in the Social Democratic Party we also want to focus on the area of general housing and on creating what can be said to be a better basis for getting more non-profit residential areas in Denmark, where you can live together and where people with different needs, young people, old people, families etc. can live together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173156	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen apostates, and then there are no more brief remarks. We thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go. Tanja Larsson I have to clean off). It's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173222	Thank you for that. It was thorough and effective cleaning up here on the platform. In the Left, we believe that there are many benefits to us as a society by meeting across upbringing, age, education, yes, the size of the paycheck. It is an advantage that we live more mixed, so that we avoid unnecessary prejudice and ensure that people with small and ordinary incomes, for example. students, young people, families with children and the elderly can afford to live in and around the larger cities. It's about ensuring a Denmark in balance. It is about the housing being seen in relation to a life cycle where people's needs change from cradle to grave. The left is, of course, in the 2016 agreement. However, it is also important for me to stress that we politicians must be careful how the Danes live; the Danes can find out for themselves. And to be honest, I think that just as many people dream of a home that is affordable, so there can be money for other things, just as I know that many people dream of being able to buy a home themselves, an owner's residence that is affordable. The prices of owner homes have exploded in the larger cities. It's not durable. It is not enough to focus on the general public who must also pay attention to other types of accommodation if we want the mixed city. In addition, we should be concerned about the quality of construction if we push 33%. general construction in. Here the maximum amount is a challenge, as I hear it. In the Left we believe that we are wise to ensure quality, good maintenance, low rent in general construction. General construction needs to be sensible, attractive construction. At the same time, we should perhaps also start to think a little more out of the box. They already know this in many municipalities, where the municipalities work to make the suburban areas more attractive and talk about what the areas can and give the many who are happy to live there. We cannot support the Enhedslisten proposal. Those were the remarks from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173437	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173439	I listened that there was such a slightly positive attitude towards mixed cities. There I just note: If you go to Aarhus and look at the extent to which you use the delegate builder model and ensure that there are general housing in new urban growth areas • e.g. If you look at the rent afterwards, it is thought-provoking. If you look at one of the new buildings in Aarhus, where some blocks are built, where you can't see from the outside what are common homes and what are owner-occupied homes, and the owner-occupied dwellings are then rented out as private rentals, then I think, if you look at the rent level, that it is very thoughtful that you can get a general housing of 60 m2 to 5,512 DKK, while the same housing, if you have to rent it as private rentals, costs 8,200 DKK. Does the rapporteur not see that there is someone who can see an advantage in living in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173543	I think it is important that we have this mixed housing stock, and I also think it is important that we ensure that those who want to buy a dwelling can also have a housing for reasonable money, including inside the big cities. And it just brings some challenges if you choose to say that an too large part must be rental accommodation • whether it is private rental or general rental. So we would just like greater emphasis to be placed on the fact that the word mixed also takes account of the fact that there is also something called owner-occupied housing. It could be good to focus on it too. But I don't think that when you're a tenant you have to find a place to live, you can compare it to what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen comes here because it's also a question of the quality of these homes. I'm not sure that when you compare one to the other in terms of square meters, that's the same quality that the residents get in the two homes, but it may be that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen can answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173636	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173637	Now I'm the one asking questions. I've been inside looking at it, and it seems that both homes are without balcony it could have been the difference. So it is essentially two comparable dwellings, where there is just the difference that in relation to one housing the housing association should not earn from it, and in relation to the other housing there is then an owner who must earn from it. I think we should be much more obs on these moving patterns that we need through life when our housing situation changes, so you have the opportunity to move there, instead of being locked in relation to an owner's residence that you might not be able to sell. In fact, there are people who buy an owner's residence and who cannot sell it because the price has been too high. Does the rapporteur not see that there are also disadvantages in owner-occupied housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173713	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173715	Well, I don't think I should be judging whether it's one or the other type that's best for the individual citizen. We in the Left believe that the citizen himself is capable of doing so. I don't have to decide if anyone's going to live in an owner's residence or if they're going to live in a rented residence. I think they know best for themselves. But in relation to this comparison of qualities, I just have to say that you have to be careful about that. Well, it's not like that, is it? Søren Egge Rasmussen can look into the homes and see which kitchens and bathrooms are stuffed into them. But it's fair enough to try to make such a view. I think you just have to be careful about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173749	Then it is Mrs Tanja Larsson, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173750	Thank you. Right now, there is a lot of focus on owning your home, and the rapporteur wants to ensure, like, the possibility of owning. Last time I looked at the web in terms of renting, the market was far from saturated, both in the larger cities, but also in the province and out in the countryside, where I myself come from. There is also a lack of leases. So I am a little interested in two things. One is whether the rapporteur does not recognise that there is a need to rent, in other words, as the rapporteur says we are different. There are some people who do not want to own, but who actually like it to rent and not be obliged. So the question is about the recognition of it. The second question I would like to ask is in relation to the private rental. We are currently dealing with some piecemeal legislation. At first sight, therefore, where I come from, and also when I lived in Copenhagen, my opinion is that most people actually want to live for rent in general, where they have some rights and are guaranteed a low rent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173857	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112173859	I have to be careful that I don't use the PM's words, but that's a funny question. I think it is quite obvious that when we say that we think it is up to the citizen himself, we also think it is a good idea to choose to live for rent. Because we believe that there are different needs depending on where you are in life. I do not think that most young students could dream about or otherwise afford to buy an owner's residence. But the reason why we speak ownership housing is not that it is such a form of religion in relation to rentals. It is simply because it is a natural pattern of movement. It is clear that if some of them, for example, are to be found. If you live in a general rental house or in a private rental house, you will have the opportunity to satisfy your home dream of buying a home because more is being built and prices are falling, it will also allow some others to have a more attractive accommodation. Well, this is a cycle, in terms of how we live, and in terms of how construction is connected. So there is no such religion in relation to one thing or another. We think it is good that there is general construction. We think it's good that there's private rental. And we also think it is good that there are owner-occupied housing and co-operative housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174006	Thank you. Tanja Larsson, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174008	Thank you. Once again, I think that the rapporteur, like the rapporteur, has the premise that everyone wants to move from rent to own as long as they can afford. No, there are some people who just want to rent, and I'm interested that these people have proper conditions in the market. I think that the rapporteur ignores this and I think that the rapporteur is talking about owner-occupied housing rather than housing rentals. When you live in general, you are now guaranteed some rights, and you have a lower rent. Does the rapporteur not want us to have cheap rents?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174043	Thank you. We'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174051	Well, I hardly know what to say about this, because I simply think that the Social Democrat rapporteur is trying to put some words into our mouths. I cannot say more clearly: we are in favour of all these forms of housing. We do this because there are different needs at different times in life. There is a time when you stand and have an owner's residence, for example. if you have become lonely after a long marriage and your mate has died, and you may need to get into a rental home and that is the dream. So we think it is important that we have the whole range of housing, and that is what we are concerned with. And so it is good if people can get cheap housing, both rentals and owner's homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174130	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174146	Thank you, President. The case we're discussing is settled. The minister has told us that he has reached out to the conciliation parties. He has not spoken to the Danish People's Party, so now he must be interested in hearing what the Danish People's Party thinks about the resolutions. The Danish People's Party is in favour of diverse and mixed cities. We want good quality housing to be built. It is crucial for a city that many different people live and live together. It's not good for you to cram along with your own. This is detrimental to the composition of pupils in schools and day-care institutions and will ultimately affect the sense of community in Denmark. I know all about that, because I live in a town where the problem has been that many have lumped themselves together. However, I am not sure that it is the intention of the Enhedslisten when the party makes its resolutions, even if they say so. Rather, I believe that it stems from a deep dislike of private landlords. I sense that if Enhedslisten had power as they have been watching, they would ban private landlords. I am also unsure what the consequences of the proposals will be. These proposals do not set out any economic impact on private builders or on the price formation of housing. It is quite crucial that you deal with it. It has not been so long since the current 25% limit. was introduced. It doesn't seem obvious to raise it after such a short time. On this basis, the Danish People's Party will follow the discussion in committee and we will probably vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174335	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174338	It is possible that one of the proposals is such a conciliation because it is a question of raising the percentage from 25 to 33 for the new residential areas that are written into the settlement. However, the second proposal, which concerns existing urban areas, where there is a congestion, and thereby also ensures that there are general housing, I think it could well be outside the conciliation, so that it should be tested. What is Enhedslisten's intentions is to provide housing for the Danish population, and there is the consequence of this just now being asked about the economy in it • that we will get more apartments for a lower rent, also to some of the voters of the Danish People's Party. So that is the economic consequence of the proposal; it is quite clear. Then there is also the question of whether there should be restrictions on what can be earned on a building site and, indeed, I think that there are limits to that and that restriction would be there if we had a high demand for more general housing. We are fully aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174443	In other words, my appeal was that any price formation had not been taken into account and that it would simply be much more expensive if the limit was raised from 25 to 33 per cent. And I would also like to question the fact that new general housing will be cheaper than private housing. Actually, I'm not sure. I am familiar with Kolding and Odense, and the price of new public housing is often at the same level as private housing. It is clear that old general apartments in general housing are in some cases cheaper, but then the standard is also then. I also know that a large number of non-profit housing companies are renovating, and it will be quite expensive when they modernise the apartments fully. That's up to 2,000-2,500 kroner. per apartment, if it's a little bigger apartments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174553	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174554	Well, I think that's interesting. This is something we need to examine in a committee procedure, in other words in relation to new general housing. Then you can do it in those blocks where you have built both ordinary homes and private rentals in the same settlement. This type of building exists in Copenhagen and in Aarhus and perhaps also in Aalborg. Let us then check if there is no price difference, because in the specific examples I am aware of in Aarhus, the newly built general housing is significantly cheaper than the private rental homes located right next door. And it may well be that you can find some where there is a balcony that makes the difference, but not so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174631	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174632	Let's finally get this figured out. Let us finally learn more about it and not just in Copenhagen and Aarhus, where Enhedslisten houses, and which one really cares about most. Let us look all over the country, and let us also look at the quality of construction, because it is also essential for price formation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174652	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Halime Oguz, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174715	I would like to begin by thanking the Enhedslisten for bringing forward these two motions for resolutions which are now being considered together. In SF we support Enhedslisten's proposal to allow local authorities to plan, so that they can demand 33 per cent. public housing in connection with the construction of new urban areas and existing urban areas in the event of congestion. As Enhedslisten himself mentions, such a change of law will give municipalities better tools to support mixed cities, which we support in the SF. We want a mixed housing mix in our cities, as we believe there should be room for everyone: both the old and the young, the rich and the poor and the black and the white. We do not want cities where only the surgeons and career cannons live, while the garbageman and the sosu helper must commute from far away to service the citizens who live at the most expensive addresses. We want a society where bridges are built between different groups of people so that we can create a strong sense of community and increase tolerance between people from different environments and with different backgrounds. It is important that we Danes know each other and that we meet people with a different perspective and a different understanding of life than the one we have. This is particularly important at a time when we are increasingly seeing Western democratic countries plagued by extreme internal divisions. Recently, we have witnessed catastrophic developments in the United States. We see a country filled with division and a marked decoupling between the elite and the workers. This must never happen in Denmark. And we should, from the political point of view, ensure that cohesion between the Danes is strengthened. An important tool in this work is to let people with different resources and backgrounds live side by side, as a general housing facility allows. By allowing municipalities to demand an even higher proportion of general housing in local planning, we help to ensure a higher diversity in our housing composition. Of course, we in the SF would like to back that up. With these comments, I can inform you that the SF supports the two co-reading motions for resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174945	There are brief comments, first from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112174948	Thank you. If the rapporteur is now talking about ensuring that there is crime and something like that, could the rapporteur not confirm that there is a higher proportion of crime in general housing than there is in general in the rest of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175001	It is true that there is more crime in these general housing buildings, but it is on the basis of a failed integration in which we have allowed people of the same background, the same social poverty, to live side by side. That's what's made us have this failed integration and this crime in these residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175036	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175037	Okay, well, it's fine if the SF has a position that you want to force people who live in some ghetto areas. That's fine, that must be SF's attitude. I would like to ask: if you want to build even more general housing, will you not get even more crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175052	I just forgot the first question, and that's whether we want to force people to move. That's not true at all. We'll give you the opportunity. That's one. Secondly, we want to create more crime: we want to dismantle the fact that there are people with the same social problems, so that we have more residential areas with different backgrounds. Because that is what has made integration impossible so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175134	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175135	Thank you. I'm gonna go with Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen ask a little bit about the general housing and the areas where they are. For Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is absolutely right that the more general housing that has clumped together, the higher the crime rate. Now I myself live in a neighbourhood which is interesting because there are both general housing and private housing, and where crime is greatest is in general housing, and this is, of course, due to the fact that there are a great many residents from Muslim countries. So to come here in the Chamber and claim that because you build many, many more common homes, you want to save the United States and you want to create happy paradise conditions is not right. What is good is that you mix it so that it is both private and public private rental and the non-profit. That is good, and the current 25% limit. I'm gonna make sure. There's no need to raise it to 33 percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175247	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175249	So this resolution is primarily not just about combating crime in this society, but about ensuring that there are more general housing, so that the ordinary Dane can also afford to live in these areas. That's one. The second is in relation to this crime: I simply do not understand that the rapporteur cannot recognise whether, in these areas where the rapporteur is talking about and living in and where I come from, it is not precisely because people with the same background have been managed to lump together in one area where they have not had an opportunity to look up to some role models? That's why there are these problems. Because there are no role models in those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175347	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175348	I really only dispute the rapporteur's premise that the more general housing you get in a city, the better it will be, because that is not true. It's the mixed relationship that's good. In Odense, for example. Up and up. They're very expensive, just like the private ones. So the price formation has not been taken into account here in this resolution and I will look forward very much to the discussion of the resolution itself in committee so that we can clarify that particular part.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175430	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175431	In relation to the price, and I also heard the rapporteur ask the same question to the proposer, since the rent is not necessarily cheaper, I have looked at it and this refutes BL, and they clearly write that the rent in general housing is cheaper than in private housing. At national level, rents for a general family home have been built in 2000 and onwards on average, for example. 932 kr. per square meters, whereas it is DKK 1,221. per square meters when it comes to private people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175518	Then it's Mrs. Heidi Bank, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175519	Thank you. Now it has been mentioned several times by the rapporteur, with the major problems of crime in some residential areas where there is very general construction, and I would like to know what percentage the rapporteur thinks will be optimal in those residential areas in order to have a varied housing stock. So, for example, the housing rapporteur believes that the percentage of general housing should be reduced to, for example. 33% in these residential areas, or what does the rapporteur think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175603	I think that these residential areas, Mrs Heidi Bank, should be as mixed as possible. I do not have a real percentage and I can be open to several different proposals. But I think it is important that we meet each other across social divisions, across cultural divides, across ethnicities. I think it is very, very important that we see each other with the differences that we have, so that we and this is actually what makes Denmark so beautiful a country that has this cohesion force. So we don't have that in these vulnerable residential areas, and we have to ensure that by building more general housing, so that an ordinary employee can also live in the big cities. In Copenhagen it is practically impossible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175709	Mrs. Heidi Bank, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175712	That's also why I get curious about this, that is, when you have that ambition, and we share it 100%, about the mixed city, and that we're going to live with each other. I would say that I also think it is important to address all the good examples that are and that it does not necessarily have to be forward-looking, I think, that we need to put stereotypes on each other, depending on whether we now have one suit or another, or what kind of upbringing we have had. At least that's what I'm hoping for. Therefore, it is also interesting where SF stands in relation to a percentage in the areas where there may be, would some say, because So, how far down in percentage does SF think you should go in those areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175754	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175755	As I said, I do not have clear figures on how far we should go down the percentage. For us, it's just important that we meet each other across these backgrounds, so that we actually do away with this alienation, which Mrs Heidi Bank is also talking about. I think we can actually get rid of this etiquette better if we do away with this alienation that we are unfortunately experiencing in some of these residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175831	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112175904	Thank you, sir. President. The Enhedslisten, with its motion for a resolution B 97, makes proposals to allow municipalities to demand 33%. general housing in the context of local planning and in B 74 the possibility of requiring 33 per cent. general housing in the context of congestion. And we in the Conservative People's Party are not in favour of that. In the negotiations on the Plan Act in 2015, we helped to decide that municipalities could demand up to 25 per cent. This requirement is systematically used in Copenhagen alone, where a 25% policy has been adopted. in most major new local plan areas. Despite this, Copenhagen has an overall goal of maintaining the current 20% share. general housing in the city, and this must then be matched by a private housing stock, which I believe is at a share of about 18-19 per cent. The current policy gives rise to criticism from builders who want to build in Copenhagen, who find it difficult to fit the demand for 25%. general housing and at the same time create an attractive building. For example: a developer of the lighthouse in Copenhagen's northwest district wrote that the northwest does not need more general housing and that the project area is geographically located in an area with a very high concentration of general housing with a particularly close geographical connection to the Mjølner Park, which is categorized as a exposed residential area, where the proportion of general family homes should be reduced to a maximum. 40% By 2030, because it's a ghetto. We do not want this project to be instrumental in working against an already existing development plan for the surrounding areas, nor do we want to keep the northwest district in a story of a socially burdened and weakened residential area without any additional potential. In addition, we should also remember that there are already 7,000 general homes in the school district of which the Lamp is part. That's what the developer writes. So we are already running the risk of having a share of general housing of up to 25 per cent. is instrumental in developing weak residential areas and thus reinforcing a ghetto effect. It was something that we wanted to avoid and not reinforce. Part B 74 contains the possibility that condensation in ghettos can also be done with general constructions, i.e. to tear down general housing and build new general housing. And it doesn't seem right. So the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180142	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180144	In other words, the Enhedslisten has not tabled this proposal for congestion in ghetto areas. It has been proposed that up to 33 per cent may be required. general housing with the additional building option that may be in an existing local plan. So it's completely misunderstood. With regard to where this 25-percent rule is being applied, the rapporteur refers to it as if it is only something that is happening in Copenhagen. I asked the Minister for Housing back in 2017 how many people used it, and I got an answer where it was said that there are ten municipalities that apply the 25-percent rule to the construction of general housing. These are Frederiksberg, Furesø, Gladsaxe, Gribskov, Copenhagen, Middelfart, Roskilde, Rudersdal, Tårnby and Aarhus Municipality. And it was in 2017. I think this is actually quite impressive, i.e. there were ten municipalities at that time that went in and, what is to be said, took advantage of this great opportunity to ensure that there are general housing so that we can have a varied housing stock. Does the rapporteur not see that this is obviously something that has been welcomed in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180242	I said that this alone was systematically used in Copenhagen. Now I have a thorough knowledge of Furesø, where I myself have been chairing urban development and housing, and the rule is being used, but not systematically, and that is the systematic use which I am highlighting here may be problematic. And then I also think that Enhedslisten should consider that the current claim of 25 per cent. In any case, some developers will have to look at whether it's the right thing to do, whether there's enough potential in this. At the same time, there's all that coloring. If we have a school district that already has 27 percent. Is it so right now that I know that it is a municipal requirement to demand that there should be more general housing in the school district? The discussion that I hear around the country is, of course, that we want balanced residential areas, and they will not be, if it is the case that there is an overweight of general housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180350	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180351	It's not like it's overweight to charge 33 percent. In general housing, for then you can risk being the kind of people like me who will live there, is it so bad? This debate sometimes sounds like you become a Muslim and a criminal if you move into a general home, and that is not the case. There are a lot of people who want to live in a general home because they think it is a really good housing form. In other words, we are talking about extending local self-government, and the municipalities themselves can choose to what extent they want to use the opportunities here to give priority to general housing. That is what the two proposals are about. And then it is up to the municipalities to choose.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180428	You may not become a criminal, but then a member of the Enhedslisten by moving into a general housing company. But summa summarum is, of course, that we are in favour of balanced residential areas, and there we think that an imbalance is being created, an unfortunate imbalance, if it is the case that we increase the percentage of general housing. So that's the answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180449	Then it's Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180452	Thank you. The question now arises as to whether the income of Members of Parliament has been taken into account when we talk about small and ordinary incomes; but I can then understand from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that this is what we are talking about when we talk about the need for general construction. However, my question to the rapporteur from the Conservatives is actually about clarification. As I understood what was being said, that is to say, the ghettos are being sealed up, the more the area in the northwest is facing some areas that are already having problems. That's actually what I understood, so it was just a clarification of what I wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180528-2	Well, thank you for that, I'll tell Heidi Bank. It is quite true that it is up to Mjølnerparken, and it may not in itself be a ghetto area, but it is so close that there is a risk of a spill-over effect if you have to use that expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180544	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Would the rapporteur like to speak out? You need the green rags there. Thank you so much. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180615	Often, when we come up here on the platform, we start by thanking you for a sympathetic proposal, but we cannot vote in favour. I think I will just say that we cannot vote in favour, because I do not think these proposals are very sympathetic. And that probably won't make the big difference, because we're very, very disagreeable in this area. I believe that even more general housing will give even more coercion and even more clientisation to citizens, and I think it is a completely wrong direction to go in relation to these things. I don't mind people wanting to live there and choose that form, but why do other people have to pay for them to live like that? I don't think there's any reason for that. So if people want to live in general homes and live close and make resident associations and such things, they must absolutely be free from them. I just don't think tax dollars should be mixed up in it. And when you do this where you're going to get 33 percent, it's just even more people who become completely dependent on the good will of politicians. It is certainly not a society that we in the New Citizens' Party want, so we cannot vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180711	There is a brief comment on Mrs Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180713	Thank you. The rapporteur asked me, after my speech, whether I believed in reducing crime by building more general housing. Now I know that the rapporteur is a schoolteacher, and I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur recognises that good role models for children, especially for children, are crucial in relation to their subsequent manifestation of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180751	I do not know whether this is essential, but it is of great importance, at least, and I fully acknowledge that, and therefore it is also a major problem that we have as much unemployment as we have in general housing, because it does not create proper role models if that is the context that the questioner sees. Therefore, in this area too, general housing is extremely harmful in terms of creating good role models for children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180808	Mrs Halime Oguz wishes to speak again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180811	I think the rapporteur is talking a little bit twice here. In other words, the rapporteur recognises both that children naturally benefit from growing up in an environment where there are some people they can look up to, while the rapporteur is against general housing. Are we talking about only the children of the elite? What about the children of ordinary Danish employees? should they not have the opportunity to live in some areas that are more resourceful than they are at present?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180853	Yes, but the general housing areas are not resourceful areas, and building more of them does not make them resourceful areas. In places where there are many general housing, there is a high unemployment rate higher than in the rest of society. And there is a great risk of this if you build more general housing in the neighbourhoods and ghetto areas, which you then want to keep quiet, and where there is room to do so, because then you will also have increased unemployment in those areas. So I don't think it's necessary. Then I know that there is the tale that general housing is taking on some social task. If they do that, they are certainly not doing very well, because it is in the areas where we have the greatest problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180935	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112180937	I think it's a bit of a skewed debate. I fully recognise that we have areas which are socially vulnerable and which are general residential areas. But we have 600,000 ordinary homes and a million people live there. There are plenty of such residential areas, which are quite ordinary residential areas and where there is no high unemployment. I think that if you look at it statistically, you will probably find that there are relatively many elderly people living and some of the elderly do not have a job, so it will probably live out that way. And it is quite natural that older people, such as the elderly, should be able to do so. on their older days it does not seem good to have a large garden and to have to clean gutters, have the opportunity to move in a general home and live there, and many of them have thus seen resources. I think the rapporteur speaks too much of general housing. I recognise that there are problems in certain areas, but there are a great many common residential areas out there where people have a quite ordinary and good life. What we really want to give priority to with these motions for resolutions here is to allow municipalities to build more general housing in mixed housing. In other words, we are not talking about building many thousands of ordinary dwellings in the same lump. This is the mixed city we are working for, with the proposals we have put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112181042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112181043	But it will be such a two-edged sword, unfortunately, because when the socialists talk about the need for more general housing, it is most often because of the social aspect of it; then it is because we have to mix the housing stock. Now you say it's because the elderly need a good place to live. Well, I don't mind them doing that, and I am sure that if the market is such that there are more elderly people who want to downsize and live like that, then there will be people who will build the homes in which the elderly will live. In no way do I object to that, nor do I want to talk down. But there's a problem with the basic construction. Because if you think that general housing has to lift a social area, it doesn't help to have a building of general housing where it's about how long you've been on a waiting list. So we have to say: what is the task of general housing? Is it a social task in society that we want to solve by means of a particular form of housing, or is it not? But this one with the two - edged sword I just don't believe in. And there is no indication that general housing around the affected areas has solved the problems. But I don't mind people wanting to live in a certain way. That's what I said. I'm a citizen, and I could never decide where to live.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112181147	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112181148	General housing is first and foremost housing, and that is what people are asking for. We could look back at Aarhus, for example, because what happens when all the students have graduated? Then what are they gonna do? Yes, if they want to stay in the city, they are forced into a market where some of them buy something that they would actually rather not have bought. They would rather move into some kind of lease where they are not so bottomed and where they might just clarify where they needed their education. So it is also the case that more general housing can be used to ensure that there are more flexible patterns of movement, and that is, in fact, the intention behind our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112181222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112181223	It is true that if we take Aarhus, we see that there is the biggest move, it is between 29 and 35, because the housing prices are so high in Aarhus. You can solve that by drawing out more landmarks, because then you are beyond that problem. It doesn't have to be ordinary housing at all. So it's simple correct that that's the way you can solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112181238	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112181300	First of all, I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they support both proposals, and I am very pleased about that. Thank you to the SF for supporting the proposals. Thank you to the Minister for having great sympathy for the proposals, thank you to the Social Democratic Party for having sympathy for the proposals. What we really want with the proposals is to increase municipal autonomy. It is a bit impressive that I have 15 minutes, I just want to warn you about them, and I would like to take full advantage of them, so I think I need all my notes. I also believe that we are standing for a year in which there is a municipal and regional election and there are some major cities where housing policy will fill something. That's one of them. in cities such as Copenhagen, Aarhus and Frederiksberg, there will be a debate on how to provide affordable housing for ordinary people. That is why it is gratifying to see that the Social Democratic Party has so far included in its housing policy that it wants to build more general housing. It is gratifying that in the government's paper of understanding we have a common understanding that we have to have 33 per cent. general housing in new local planning areas. So with one motion for a resolution we are simply striving for it, that is to say, to try to help social democracy. We want to help the government, which is busy with many things, and then it is good to have a parliamentary basis to help them achieve things. Then there is the second proposal, like looking at the existing local planning areas, where municipalities in many parts of the country want to create a congestion. That is what happens in many places: building closer. There the municipality does not have a tool to ensure that there will also be more general housing. That is, of course, the aim of our proposal: to ensure that if there is to be an extra building opportunity, then there will also be general housing there. Otherwise, we'll just keep going, and you'll find that there are some former industrial areas and harbour areas where the municipality has this tool to secure 25%. general housing, while there are other parts of the municipality, of the city where you do not get the mixed city. I mean, it's kind of a funny debate we have, where more and more people are in favour of us having these mixed towns, and then there's a lot of focus on it when you look at the general residential areas, so it's so important that these so-called ghetto areas get mixed, but when you go outside the urban areas and look at the more uniform city where there's mostly owner-occupied housing or private rental, you're not so quick to come up with a more mixed city. I think that this debate is important to ensure that we continue, and I think it is important that we secure mixed cities in all parts of our municipalities and our communities. Does it matter? Yes, it has, that is, that there are general homes in many places. I can't help thinking about my mother-in-law, who stayed alone in her 140 m2 parcel house and found out that it was probably best to try to sell it, and fortunately she managed to sell it to a family of children who can make use of every square metre, and she had the opportunity in the same small town outside Silkeborg to move in a common home where there are quite a lot of older people who she has known a large part of her life. It is a real sunshine story, and it can only be done if there are common homes in the small town of Kragelund. And this is the debate that I would like to see spread out, so there are several municipalities that see the quality of having public housing not only in the larger cities, but also in smaller communities, where people have to recognise that during a long life you have different housing needs, from perhaps starting to leave home and being single, until you start a family and have more children who later leave home, and you may end up being alone again. It is therefore necessary in a modern age that we have a varied housing offer for the population, and that is what ordinary housing can help to secure, among other things. know that, as with an owner's residence, you are not bound to keep it until it can be sold. There, general housing has a huge quality. I can give you an example from Aarhus, which I think is a little thought-provoking and where I would like to help ensure the quality of the information. It is a former commercial area where the municipality, through a delegated builder model, has required, has ensured that there is also general housing. You can't see it from the outside on that block because they are built at the same time, but there is a housing association that has been given the opportunity to own a housing department in that block, and when I go in and check the rent, I can see that a 60 m2 general dwelling costs DKK 5.512, and I can then find a corresponding accommodation of 60 m2 in the private rental, i.e. in the same block, but which costs DKK 8,200. I checked that there was no balcony in either of them. So that's a rent difference of $2,700, that's an almost 50 percent. higher rent. I think that's pretty crazy. It may well be that by checking it we find out that there is a slightly better kitchen in one of them, but I think it is interesting to look into how much the newly built general homes are cheaper than those via private rentals. I think we have a big problem about this with mixed cities and that we do not have an answer to how to secure general housing in the congestion that can be noted in larger cities. We're running the risk of getting these new rich neighborhoods where there's only condos. I think it is necessary to achieve an increase in the percentage of general housing and to allow municipalities to secure it. I can see that some of this is colliding with a plotting agreement that some parties are bound by. I think it is a little special that the Left also thinks that they would like to stand by the 2016 agreement, despite the fact that the Left is actually not in the agreement. I think that is a little too much of a loyalty to an agreement that the Left is not part of. I look forward to that agreement being evaluated. I note that it is planned for the summer of 2020, and the Minister has referred to the fact that this is something that is planned later, and the Minister has promised to take it home to the Ministry of Business, so they have some tasks to deal with when they are finished with the mink, business packages and such things; yes, there is just an evaluation of the law on plans, which lies as a bottom-up task in terms of living up to current agreements. So I have such a small hope that, in the context of the evaluation of the planetary law agreement, we will also look at if there is no reason to allow more changes to be made in relation to something that is outside what has been specifically agreed in the conciliation text. I think that would be fair. Otherwise, I think it's too much innovation. So I would like to thank you for the debate and I look forward to a committee procedure in which we may be able to get some of the prejudices grounded and perhaps we can confirm our bias with some facts; I look forward to that very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182047	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Heidi Bank, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182051	Thank you. Although we do not agree, I think we should at least be thanked for having a good debate on these matters. I think this is important, in other words, that we should discuss the needs of housing. I do not think we will agree on the comparison that the rapporteur continues to make: that you can compare one by one from square metres. Well, I can also give examples from Roskilde, where I can say that there is certainly a huge difference between general construction and private construction, it is built straight up and down. So it's just to say that I think you have to be careful with this kind of comparison. However, where I think we might be able to try to talk about some things in common, compared to everything that is about us having a huge need, by the fact that more elderly people need a home. Because there are a lot of people who are going to have a desire to move in something less, and I would like the rapporteur to explain a little or perhaps give some answers as to whether one might be interested also to go into looking not only at the general but generally to open up that it can be easier to set up housing for the elderly, in other words, both in the private and in the general sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182206	Well, compared to what I think with comparisons, it would be really good if we tried to make that comparison between general housing and other newly built private rentals in the places where they have been built at the same time. This kind of thing is found in Aarhus Island, it is found on Loksvej in Aarhus, and it is found on Tulipgrunden. In other words, there are some good examples, and there are also some blocks in Copenhagen that have been built at the same time. Let's then go in to see what the rent level is then after, and let's get some notes about whether it is, because then there is a little more expensive kitchen that there is so much difference between it. In relation to the elderly, I think it is very differentiated, because we have some elderly people who are so rich that they can buy themselves for what they want, and then we have some elderly people who have a poor economy and perhaps higher medical costs and such. That is where I think it is important for us to be open to what the elderly are asking for. I also note that there are a number of older people who want to live in something that has suffered from community behavior. There are private actors involved in this, and I hope that the Green Housing Agreement will help to ensure that we also get the work done on housing communities for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182311	Heidi Bank, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182313	It may well be that I have to ask the rapporteur to explain it a little again. Because what I also hear is that there are major challenges in relation to the fact that some of the elderly who have a little better economy, like the example given by the rapporteur, with the rapporteur's own mother, sell a owner's residence and therefore perhaps have a little better advice to go in and spend some money on another accommodation, so that you might have to open up to make it easier. But it is certainly positive if it is something that can be worked on widely in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182350	My mom's fine. It was my mother-in-law who became alone and moved into a general home, and I think it is very good that she is moving somewhere where she should not clear snow on the sidewalk and clean gutters and have such considerations. There is thus a certain amount of service when living in a general home. However, it is good to have increased focus on different groups in society that have a housing need, and I think that there are many places where older people have good choices, but we also have parts of the country where, if you own a dwelling, you can't actually sell it. So there are some bindings that I think make it difficult for some older people to move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182432	Sir. Egil Hulgaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182434	Thank you. It is actually a very short question: can you get too many general housing? Well, can the percentage get too high? What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182445	It's different, depending on where in the country it is. I am aware that there have been times in history when general housing organisations have built small units far out in the countryside and where problems have been encountered in having them rented out. So I think it is quite fair for a municipality to look at what kind of housing provision should be. Well, we're not going to impose coercion with these two proposals... it's about giving the municipalities some extra opportunities to plan more general housing. I think there are very many municipalities that should build more general housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182519	Egil Hulgaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182520	I was actually fishing for something else, namely the rapporteur's position on the concentration of general housing. Now, in my rapporteur's speech, I mentioned this issue with the Lamp and the school district around the Lamp, which has 27 per cent. general housing. Could it be 100% if it were up to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182540	I am a great supporter of general housing, and I think we should build much more, so if it were up to Enhedslisten, it would be up to the municipalities if you would drive up the number higher. I think it's dangerous to build these very large units where you have offices with thousands of homes and you almost need a parish council to run them. I am in favour of having smaller units. And you can easily make a mixed town where there are elderly homes somewhere else, youth homes somewhere else and family homes somewhere else, and there may also be some cohabitation rentals that is the second best form of accommodation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182617	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210112182631	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 13 January 2021, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
