ParlaMint-DK_20210311100002	The meeting is open. Today I have the following announcements: The Epidemic Committee has submitted: Report on the reopening of all school leaving classes in the country's primary schools and all school leaving pupils in youth and adult education from Monday 15 March 2021. 6). Report on the reopening of the primary school for all pupils in the 5th-8th class throughout Denmark from Monday 15 March 2021 at 50 per cent. attendance. 7. Report on the reopening of liberal professions and major stores from Monday 15 March 2021. 8. Report on the reopening of youth and adult education with specific measures to prevent infection. 9). Report on raising the ban on outdoor association sports to 35 and drawing up concrete models for reopening indoor association sports. 10). Report on significantly strengthened preventive action in relation to the covid-19 epidemic in vulnerable residential areas. 11). Report on liberal professions. 12). The reports will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Conservative People's Party Parliamentary Group has informed me that, with effect from 1 April 2021, it has appointed a member of the Folketing, Mette Abildgaard, as a state auditor instead of a member of the Folketing, Mai Mercado, for the remainder of the current term of office. The person concerned is then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100037	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100103	Thank you for that and also thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. After all, it is the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party that have tabled a motion for a resolution on the setting up of a committee of experts to promote business-democratic companies. The motion for a resolution proposes the setting up of a committee of experts to clarify various areas of business democracy in Denmark by December 2021. I would like to start by emphasising that it is important for the government that more is done to promote democratic ownership in companies such as the United Kingdom. employees-owned companies. First, however, we need to have a more basic knowledge of democratic companies, so that we have a basis for how to promote and support these companies politically. The government will therefore strengthen the knowledge base on democratic companies in Denmark, and that is why, in the Finance Act, we have, by the majority that has concluded the budget agreement for 2021, set aside funds to investigate the area in detail through a set up expert working group. The government does not believe that there is a need to set up another committee of experts to carry out a parallel investigation of democratic companies, and I would, of course, like to clarify why. It has been decided that the expert working group should examine and describe the situation of democratic companies, including employee, producer and consumer-owned companies. The group of experts shall, inter alia: identify and compare democratic companies with other forms of enterprise. We need to highlight possible barriers to creating new or developing existing democratic companies and transforming existing companies into democratic companies. Following this, the expert working group will have to make recommendations to remove inappropriate barriers and improve conditions for democratic companies, including also removing potential barriers to the creation of new democratic businesses. The expert working group will also have to compare the rules in the selected regulatory areas in relation to the regulation and taxation of other EU and EEA countries, and there is therefore a significant correlation between the conditions to be examined by the expert working group and what is stated in the resolution. The Government cannot therefore see the purpose of two working groups responsible for examining the same situation. We are already well in the process of preparing, so on this basis the government does not support motion for a resolution B 99, as it has already been decided in the 2021 Finance Act that an expert working group should be set up to strengthen the knowledge base on democratic companies in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100357	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100401	Thank you for your statement and thank you for agreeing to do some of the things contained in this proposal as part of the financial law negotiations. If we have not drawn it, it is because it is not exactly the same thing in the proposal put forward by the government and also because we believe that we have actually been instrumental in bringing it up by the government. For this proposal has been put forward on 1 December, and it was sent around to some rapporteurs long, long before, and it is good that the government should take it up at the request of a support party. That's fine, but wouldn't it really have been a good idea for there to be a little more breadth around a matter as important as this, a little more breadth, where you would have talked to the parties that actually took the initiative?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100502	I can confirm that I have very broad support for, I would have liked to say, the concept of democratic companies and eagerness to do something. I now see a great deal of coincidence between the two approaches here, I would say. So I think that is only positive. In other words, there is always the possibility of achieving a very large political breadth, including about a financial law, but of course this presupposes agreement on the full content. I would say that the matter here is so important to me and we in the government think it is good that we get started. It is good that we are now getting the working group started, and it is then a majority behind the financial law that is doing so. And it could have been a wider majority, but now we are getting started, and I think that is going to be very good for modernising our cooperative movement, for the employees-owned companies, because everything that I experience there in the Folketing is a desire to continue working on. So I am confident about the breadth of the concrete start-up, and I hope, of course, that there will be even wider support for any initiatives that follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100605	Sir. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100606	Can the Minister clarify what is wrong in the committee proposed in the resolution we are debating today? And can the Minister explain why he does not listen as much to Andrea Pinstrup and the think tank he represents as the proposers do? Because I think we all have to give that think tank part of the credit that we are here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100640	So, what I think is, I do not want to say wrong, I am sorry, a wrong expression to use but superfluous, is to set two more or less parallel tracks in motion, which must uncover much of the same, and which at least have the same purpose, namely to see where there are barriers that stand in the way of developing existing or creating new democratic companies. And I am very aware of this exciting think tank that has contributed so far, and I can imagine nothing more than that they should also contribute from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100713	Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100714	Now I have both discussed this issue with the Minister, but also with Mr. Bertel Haarder, and I am just glad that across the blocks there is a common interest in strengthening both the cooperative movement and the cooperative movement generation 2.0. I have a question for the Minister. Now this think tank is being put into the world, but does the Minister have any thought about how, until that think tank comes out with its conclusion, we can still keep the debate going? And are there any further initiatives that could be taken while we are waiting for the conclusions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100751	Thank you, too, for Uffe Elbæk's commitment to this matter. I've felt that over several laps, so it's only nice to feel this today. But I do believe that the question is twofold. How do we keep the debate going? There I think that the working group itself, in some of the debates they have there, will certainly play out in the public debate, and that will be something that we will have to discuss as major themes. I'm not so worried about that. On the other hand, I think I would be a little concerned if we were to anticipate the work of the working group by starting initiatives before they had uncovered the knowledge base, which is not supersolid in this area, and had made their specific recommendations. So I am sure that the debate will continue, and I will only welcome that, but I think that, in respect of the work that is now being started, we should wait for it and see what they might recommend by concrete initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100845	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100846	Now I know that there are different wishes for who should sit in this group of experts, and what I am so aware of slashing is that it becomes the usual suspects, that is to say that you get some representatives from the major organisations. So my question to the Minister is: how do we ensure that the new votes, when we talk about cooperative movement and cooperative movement, get into play? Sir. Bertel Haarder has already mentioned Democratic Business as a new initiative, but there are also good initiatives such as Logik & Co. or Analysis & Numbers. There's a whole series and a whole new generation coming. So what's the minister thinking about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311100929	I think, Uffe Elbæk, that it is a common focus of attention both within the government, but also among the parties responsible for the financial agreement, that we get both the right competences and professional skills, but also different views on this concept of aggregation, the umbrella concept, which is also quite wide-ranging. This is, of course, one of the things we are discussing in the circle of parties that is behind the Financial Law Agreement. But I feel confident that we will also see new eyes on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101002	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101006	Thank you, Madam President. Now I know very well that the Minister for Industry is not the Minister for Animal Welfare, but there's some copycat about this. There's some copycat about it. You could also keep saying a little funny that even a blind chicken can find grain. This isn't something that's grown up with the Social Democrats. In fact, this is something that has been under way long before the government has completed its financial law. I cannot, of course, document it, but I am quite sure that, in relation to the proposal we are discussing here today, the Minister has also been aware that this project was under way. Now the Minister is very concerned that this is not a group of experts, it is a working group. I would like to hear what the Minister is saying in the difference, which clearly must be • one must hardly say the word 'committee of experts', I could see. What does the government put in that difference assessment? And does the government insist that there should also be a concrete proposal for initiatives in this area by December?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101116	In addition to talking about both chickens and cats, one can also say that one should never sell the skin until the bear has been shot, and that is perhaps why the resolution has been maintained today, in other words to make sure that one gets there, that a committee has been set up. For my sake, we can call it what we want, it's not so much the words I'm sensitive to. I take note of the fact that we are in the circle of finance agreements setting up an initiative which is incredibly similar to what is wanted here. That is why I believe that there will be a basis for a broad political debate afterwards. It is, of course, the parties behind the Financial Law Agreement that have the discussion on the concrete initiatives, but I would hope that there can be broad political support for the initiatives afterwards when they are considered. In this way, of course, we can create a broad political basis for the future of our democratic companies. We are also discussing the timetable, but it will be something of the same. So we expect it won't be long before we can make policy on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101218	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101220	Now the Minister for Business came up with something with skin, and I think the government should leave that a little in the drawer. It has not been such a very great success so far this year, at least for the government. I also think it has been a rather expensive pleasure, but leave it at that. This is something else, of course. But the Minister will then, as I hear it, raise this matter with his circle of conciliation in relation to the Finance Act, but at what point does the government intend to bring in other parties, that is, those who have been concerned about this at least considerably before the conclusion of the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101259	But that is something we need to talk about when we get there, that a knowledge base is beginning to be established and that is also beginning to form a basis of concrete political recommendations. I think it is a perfectly normal process, whether it is a social democratic government or another government, that one is, of course, loyal to one's circle of agreements, not least the one behind the Finance Act. So that will be where we discuss things first, and then it may be that we discuss how we can spread the debate as well. Now I anticipate the course of history, but I could easily see that it was at least a talk we had.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101330	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Minister for Industry, so we are now embarking on the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, sir. Orla Hav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101356	Thank you. I would like to say that B 99 covers a beautiful thought. I would like to commend the authors of the motion for a resolution, perhaps mostly the Left, in order to revive some of their roots. Denmark has, of course, greatly benefited from the fact that companies with democratic ownership have been strong and developed to be economically strong and sustaining. The cooperative movement has fostered some of the most important of these, and the principle of voting by head and not by head emphasizes the principle of equality regardless of the size of the holding. In fact, we think this is a beautiful idea, and we would like to help to revitalise it in the form of studies of the new democratic forms of ownership that could emerge, because there are still positive effects here. We would like to remind you that democratic ownership has had a bit of difficulty. I should just like to mention the latest example, where it has been very difficult and where there has been a heated discussion about whether one should stick to one's original form of ownership, namely when it comes to one of the major mortgage institutions, which was close to moving to an a/s size, because in a/s thinking it was considered most profitable. I am delighted that Nykredit managed to maintain its status as owned by the borrowers and lenders and thus be a democratic form of ownership, which has helped to secure Danish economy and a great many homes in Denmark. It is gratifying that some other winds are now blowing from a largely unified Parliament, which will help to see how we ensure good effects of democratic ownership. This deserves the sober review that the government is proposing when setting up its committee. The background has been that the government has wanted to clarify how democratic ownership forms can be placed in the counsellors' world in line with the more traditional forms of ownership. We also hope that the financial sector will take democratically owned companies as seriously as a/s, aps and others. We hope that one of the top examples of democratically owned companies, the consumer-owned ones, will have a renaissance with this. The consumer-owned companies have also had quite a strain on some of the winds that have blown here from Christiansborg. We welcome the fact that we are now almost united in trying to revive the democratic forms of ownership that have been so strong in Denmark. And I have not really had the need to read foreign literature, to which I can see reference is made in the motion for a resolution by the Left, because if you have listened a little in your history hours over time, you know that this is the lesson of the cooperative movement and the cooperative movements over the years in Danish society. So we welcome the fact that we are now almost united in promoting what the government has made a committee around, but we are not voting for the setting up of committee number two on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101753	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101756	Sir. Orla Hav has understood the proposal quite correctly, and I thank him for the kind words he has said here, except that we are therefore three parties behind the proposal. I can also see that we will probably not have two parallel committees, but that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur if he does not think it would be reasonable if the agreed committee now makes its position, so that the proposers can be invited to speak. It could be that we could have a broad consensus on such an important matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101834	With my democratic attitude to things, it will be a natural conclusion to make, but I also recognise that this is how it is at Christiansborg and has been practiced for a very, very many years, that the majority behind a financial law also have the right of server and initiative. But I take it as an outstretched hand from the Left rapporteur that there is a desire to be a part of this, and we will then have a discussion on the extent to which it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101907	Sir. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101908	I understand, sir. Orla Hav cannot decide who should be invited to talk about the outcome of the committee work, but could he not promise to speak to his minister on that matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101923	I'd be happy to speak to my minister. I am happy and happy to talk to my minister about a great many issues, and I think it would be natural that, when we come to the follow-up to the proposals that might be made in the Committee of Experts, a broad circle would be involved. I'd be happy to talk to the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311101940	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, so I would like to ask you, Mr President. Orla Hav prepare for the next rapporteur, who is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102014	It is a proposal that has been under way for a long time. In fact, we started with the preliminary discussions on this almost before the last parliamentary elections, and that was also in a different time and during another government. But that does not change the fact that, fortunately, reason is included in the resolution we have tabled here. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that it made great sense that back in 2019 the privately funded analysis of how much the member-owned, business-democratic companies actually fill here in Denmark, what they generate from growth, what they generate from apprenticeships and internships, turnover, taxation and everything else. Some may think that it is amazing that they make up 10%. If you look at how big Danish exports are, how large our service industry and turnover in Denmark are at all, 10 per cent. Of course, also very, very many billions. But what has been characteristic is that if you look at the surrounding countries, not least Sweden, but also Germany and England, you will actually see that the business-democratic companies are filling up in many of our neighbouring countries. And if you look at the benefits they generate at the same time, you can see that the dividends stay in Denmark • it actually stays with the owners • the money comes out to work; they don't go down into some big money tank in some foreign system, they go back to the customers. There is a high degree of social responsibility, which is a high degree of desire, ability and willingness to establish on average more internships than other companies. Divisions 1, 2 and 3 were not outsourced during the financial crisis 10 years ago, just as other Danish companies unfortunately did. A lot of jobs went to Hungary, Poland and all sorts of other countries. This type of enterprise is typically not the business-democratic ones. At least that was one of the lessons we learned when we look back at the financial crisis. I am well aware that Coop could not move their stores to Poland, and I also know that loan & Spar Bank would probably not move a branch to Budapest, and I do not believe that GF Insurance would sell very many policies in another country either. And then we have Arla, OK Gasoline and all sorts of others. But in many different industries we have a number of companies that have shown for many years that they can both grow and generate momentum from a democratic point of view. It is an angle that other companies do not have the same loving approach to, unfortunately. This isn't supposed to sound like a kind of disavray of all the other Danish companies. We love Novo Nordisk and lots of exports, lots of jobs and everything else, but there is just something characteristic over the business-democratic companies, and we must be good at exploiting that potential here in Denmark, and this is something that the Danish People's Party clearly believes we can actually do better than we have done so far, and we can also do so by a number of good concrete initiatives. In the proposal we have presented here, together with the Left and the Conservatives, we give some good examples of how to look at it in terms of adapting the business promotion system and the powers of armament to all the public authorities. There are also discussions about challenges and opportunities in terms of being able to provide growth-oriented capital and better conditions for sales, transfer, etc. All those incentives are, of course, some that can make it better for these companies to be in Denmark. That is why it is also important, once we have started, that it should not just be some sort of sleeping pillow, and that is why we are a little worried that we will not, as it were, go in and say when to make a public statement of what we intend to do, so we have said in this resolution that it should be at the beginning of December 2021, or at least in the period up to the end of 2021, that there should be such clarification. That is why, of course, I also hope that the Minister of Industry will take this into account in that, on the one hand, a slow working party will not be set up slashing commission slashing committee of experts calling it what you want but that it will also contribute concretely as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102532	Thank you. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The first is from Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102537	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. I have some questions. I very much agree with what the rapporteur said about us taking advantage of the opportunities that exist, and I am thinking: how about being inspired by the way Sweden does its business promotion system? There you actually have a determined effort to try to support democratic companies, so you think in terms of both finance, capital, the legal and sustainability of these different parts. Will the Danish People's Party take part in looking at the business promotion system, so that we actually also ensure that it supports the potential there is?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102620	After all, it is not long since we reached an agreement on a new structure for our business promotion system, and it must of course be allowed to work, and it must also be evaluated, not least so that we can see what it has contributed. In fact, I also believe that business houses can provide advice and guidance to these types of companies in relation to the advice they offer. However, it makes very good sense, as the rapporteur proposes, to be able, of course, to provide specific guidance on cooperatives, cooperatives, cooperatives and so on, and if it can be one of the sticks in which the business houses operate, it will of course make a great deal of sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102703	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102705	I think that sounds very good, because now we have had a hearing, and when I meet with the various democratic companies, they are actually quite frustrated that they cannot get the help they want and that sometimes they are looked at with such a big eye when they ask for something that they think should be trivial that they can get help with. So I think that sounds really nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102725	It was at least one of the congruencies of the new business promotion reform that one had to have the specialist business promotion counselling at business houses, where, of course, they also had to be able to handle these types of companies. I think they can do that in many of the areas too, but it is clear that there is another way, as the rapporteur also says, to attract capital for development, etc. On. There, of course, they are in a different situation than if you can just sell some of the shares, or whatever it is called, in other companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102754	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102757	I want to thank you for a very, very good speech. It was really motivating and encouraging to listen to the rapporteur's arguments. Some of the arguments that are emphasised are social responsibility, democratic approach and, incidentally, also that it is a solid economy. My question concerns what the rapporteur sees as the most important thing about our cooperatives and our cooperatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102831	That is a good question, and I also thought I was trying to answer it a little, in relation to what it is in some places, we see a difference between these cooperatives and cooperative companies and ordinary Danish limited companies etc. That's one of them. In relation to the way in which the proceeds are managed. For example, money goes back to customers; they may not exactly do that in all companies. There is the part about social responsibility, apprenticeship and internships and, of course, also the discussion, as one could see when evaluating the financial crisis, which these types of companies actually got through better and where they did not outsource a lot of different tasks and services to other countries. I am not saying that they are protectionist, but there was only a greater degree of willingness to sacrifice because you did not have some investor who was sniffing out for some money that he would like to have on 1 January. There are some very clear advantages to these types of companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102938	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311102939	I simply agree with what the rapporteur says on the subject of words. Now we are in a right, I think, a positive situation, although it may seem a little paradoxical that this proposal is now before us and that decisions have also been taken in relation to the Finance Act. But if we do not think about teasing each other with who came first and something like that, how can we exploit the fact that there is a real interest in these democratic companies across the parties, so that we go in much more massively and support it, both in the debate as such, but also in the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311103014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311103015	The legislation is, of course, somewhat political. There will, of course, be some regulation in relation to it if you agree on something. But one way to do that is, we in the Danish People's Party at least think that we recognise in remembrance that this is a broad wish, which has been long along the way, both from one side and from the other side of the Folketing. That is why we think it makes good sense that, in solidarity, we go in and find a model for this together, rather than it being some crateries and some stickjacking over by the government, which has to make a little feinschmeckeri with their parliamentary hinterland in a finance bill. There we would like to see a little more transparency and openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311103055	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311103110	Thank you. Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 99 is actually a very good proposal, and we are pleased that in the SF there is agreement to look at the opportunities to promote these democratic companies. SF has been advocating this for many years, and I know that Lisbeth Bech Nielsen has stood on the platform many times and spoken this out. There are not many employees-owned companies in Denmark and there are fewer of them than in comparable countries. This is despite the fact that research shows that in some cases employee-owned companies can be more productive and robust than capital-owned companies. Of course, we need to set up this committee of experts and a working group, and that was also stated in the budget law for 2021. We must set up a committee of experts that is not just prepared to investigate the advantages and disadvantages of democratic companies. We already have plenty of information on the specific nature of the sector. We want a group of experts to make recommendations on how to promote conditions for democratic companies. This means that the working group must at least work to identify current barriers and create equal opportunities for this. We also want to look at the possibilities of raising risk finance, because it turns out that this can be difficult when we look to other countries. All of this is something that a committee of experts has to work on. You might then ask yourself who is going to sit on this committee of experts, and we hope, of course, that it will be widely represented and that you look at what the industry can contribute today. We would like some representatives of some organisations and associations, as well as some people from the research community who can help work on this. We look forward in the SF to get started and support the initiative launched by the Ministry of Industry, which is why we do not support this proposal, but support the initiative that has already been launched.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311103320	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Mrs. Katrine Robsøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311103345	Thank you. It is always nice when you stand down here in the Chamber and there is quite a good atmosphere and a good deal of agreement that what we are discussing is, of course, a very good proposal. Because we would also very, very much like to help ensure a good framework for democratic professions. As many others have also mentioned, we in Denmark have a long history of the cooperative movement and cooperatives, which is why it makes great sense that we now have a look at how we create the framework for how this kind of company can also create growth and development in the future, and for Radicals it is particularly important in the green area. I have also, as I think many others in this Chamber have, had some very good talks with the Think Tank Democratic Business, also long before the agreement on the Finance Act was concluded, and they have highlighted a lot of relevant challenges. That is why I am in any case pleased that funds have been set aside for this in the Finance Act so that we can have an expert working group on democratic companies. That is why, of course, we support the work being done there and, of course, we are voting against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311103508	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311103516	Thank you. More democratic ownership in business is a very important tool to counteract the rise in economic inequality, ensure good working conditions and, at the same time, increase the democratic influence of citizens on society. However, companies owned by consumers and employees are also more productive, long-lasting and resilient than traditional capital-owned companies. Despite a long tradition of democratic ownership, Denmark lags behind international developments in this area in these years. I hope that will change now. I remember, and it's just a little funny, you know, this whole thing about who came first, and whose ideas it's the first coffee meeting, when mr. Simon Kollerup became Minister of Business. We were actually talking about this subject there. And at my very first meeting of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I remember that Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt from the Left warmly backed up that this was something we had to look at. I think that is absolutely fantastic, that is, there is broad support and that there is now also action behind the words. In Enhedslisten we have a number of proposals to create better framework conditions for the democratic business sector in Denmark, and we warmly welcome other ideas. The rapporteur from the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group, Mr von der Vring (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Bertel Haarder, had an important point, because we can have enough ideas in here, but we have to acknowledge the huge importance of actors outside Christiansborg, which means that there has really been air under our wings. Thank you so much. When we in the Enhedslisten have raised the proposal for the expert group both by the previous Finance Act and by this Finance Act, where we have succeeded in getting it through, it is with the desire to create a new wave of democratic companies in Denmark. I hope that we can have broad support for the recommendations that are coming, so that we can see whether we can have a completely new democratic form of company that makes it easy for entrepreneurs to start and run new democratic companies so that we can see whether we need to set up a registration system for democratic companies that can allow democratic companies to benefit, for example. In relation to public procurement we are about to negotiate the Procurement Act in a little time and in relation to special tax benefits, so that we can see if we can create a new branch in the Business Promotion System, which we also mentioned before together with the Danish People's Party. I think it was nice that there were open arms to look at it, that is to say that we can make such a branch that specially targets democratic entrepreneurs and businesses, and that we can look at whether we can support generation shifts where the owner sells the company to the employees or consumers, among other things. by means of advantageous tax deductions. After all, there are a great many ideas already, and I hope we can get even more ideas forward and get broad support for the recommendations that are there. It would also help to ensure better access to capital for democratic companies by setting up, for example, public sector-funded investment funds or support for democratic crowdfunding. These are some of the things that some in this Chamber have also been involved in developing, i.e. some of these ideas, which I hope will come from many more. So I would certainly very much like to have a talk and not just here, but it is also about inviting the important players to whom we owe a huge thank you into the engine room. And I think we should also make a lead in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, where we may not only have a hearing, but also, in fact, when we have to, come out and meet democratic companies from Gore-Tex to the Spanish cooperative Mondragon, which is Spain's fourth largest company with over 75 000 employees. In my view, this group of experts, which we have decided to set up by means of the Finance Act, is just the first step. So I look forward very much to the many more steps to be taken, and I hope that a lot of people will be on that journey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311103957	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311104001	I just want to say thank you for a good speech and also thank you for the efforts that Enhedslisten has made in relation to this agenda. Anyone I've discussed with your former colleague, sir. Pelle Dragsted how we can strengthen the whole area of democratic professions. So thanks for the effort, I wanted to say. My question is how we can strengthen this debate, including in here at Christiansborg. Now, we see that everyone would like to go into it much more ambitiously than I have ever seen before. So one thing is that we are now running the debate into a group of experts, but does Enhedslisten have any suggestions on how we politicians can keep the agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311104050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311104052	Thank you very much for those words, and I know I should say thank you the other way from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, also generally in relation to the ideas that have come to the water that comes on these sprouts so that they can grow and grow high. I think there are many things we can do. Well, I actually think we should go with the Business Committee and try to meet some of these companies. It could easily be some of those who are in Denmark. Perhaps we can also ask the expert group to make some open arrangements along the way, where we can involve more than just us. I also think it could make sense in relation to some of the committee trips that should be outside the country's borders. could come to Spain and see how it works there and what challenges there are, also because there are different types of companies, if you look at England, the United States, Spain, and there you could look at: what are the advantages and what are the disadvantages? I think we could learn a lot from that. And then we could try in different ways to see how we could spread the debate and make it branch out where each of us is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311104200	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311104201	Thank you for those ideas. I already want to pack my suitcase and then go to northern Spain. However, I think it might be interesting to take the rapporteur at his word and then say: perhaps we should create a network of politicians in here with a particular interest in democratic professions. Because I can hear that there is just as much in this as we have only just started.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311104230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311104231	Well, I'm very excited about that. That's sometimes the advantage of being a new one in here, you don't quite know how things work, and then you find out new ways to go. And then I think it might be obvious that it was under the Enterprise Committee where people could be involved, so we put it into the work we generally do, and so we also think it into procurement law, business promotion and all the other things that I think are obvious to think into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311104255	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Mona Juul, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311104319	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. When I was the owner manager and CEO, I dreamed of one day being able to give all my more than 100 employees an extra monthly salary for Christmas, and you know what? And it was just a really cool day. It was simply the most beautiful thing, and it is one of the coolest things you can do, I think. I also dreamed several times about turning my company into that our employees were part of both good times and bad times and being on board as co-owners, but unfortunately we failed. Nor does it for many others, because there are some obstacles. These are some obstacles that entrepreneurs and start-ups in particular feel, and when you, like me and the Conservative People's Party, are concerned about what it takes to promote more people trying to start business, the conditions for business-democratic companies are, of course, also crucial. I don't believe all that well-intentioned pool nonsense, but I really believe in what I'd call real business policy. That's where we change on terms and make it more attractive to drive and develop businesses, big and small, whether you're Arla or the one who wants to repair bikes, or her who wants to digitize the whole world, and where we take the Danes' minds into the equation, that is, where we don't see ourselves as these bloodthirsty soloists with American blood in their veins, because we're Danes with the cooperative movement as a platform and with the desire to create, also for others than ourselves. Perhaps it is precisely in the Danish mindset, even at the present time, but many other countries are further advanced with this form of company. And maybe it's just because it can also be a good business to run business democratically, because you should never underestimate the Danish mouth for good grocery business. It is important for me to make it clear that Conservatives are absolutely not interested in glorifying or pleasing one form of company rather than another, but the conditions must be equal, and they are not. Business-democratic companies are not like other types of companies. There are problems with taxation, the ability to raise capital and also just to get general advice, among other things. in the business promotion system. But I cannot help but say: imagine if we had an equally bold debate on double taxation in relation to other forms of company. That would be nice, and I'll look forward to it. That is why we want a committee of experts to be set up to clarify the existing barriers to the start-up and development of business-democratic companies. We should also do that for other forms of society. Right here, there's that difference, and we need to figure out how to do something about it so that conditions can be improved, and so that with this action we can also make it more attractive to start and run a business in Denmark. It could also be that the government would choose to include some of the other blue motions. I think it's just nice; we don't have to tease each other with easy's go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311104555	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311104607	Thank you. That is a good proposal, and the government is already doing so, and then we can spend an hour debating it. It is to be hoped that the government will listen to what the Left says, namely that they want to be invited along, and I think we all want to be invited along. So it has to be up to the government to do it, and then we have to find out. My input must be that it is important when we look at what this group of experts is going to look at, that we may also look at taxation, i.e. that we not only look at the form of ownership, but actually also tax, i.e. whether there is anything around, for example. capital taxation in the other countries, which facilitates better conditions for this type of employee. We have a very, very high capital tax in Denmark, and it may well be that it makes investors less risky to invest in employees and in some forms of ownership, which may not be as widespread and as recognised as the types of ownership that so far have been. So that's the kind of thing I hope you can bring in, so you get a whole picture of it. For example: Sweden has very low capital taxation, and also England, and Spain. Some of these places, which have a lot of these types of ownership, have a low capital tax, so I hope that this is also included in the work here. But it's positive. And then, of course, I think that there should be a similarity in one's being guided, that is, that there is no discrimination, in relation to how public authorities provide guidance in the different forms of ownership, and if there is, of course we must have looked at it. But I think you're looking at that in this group too, so we're very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311104732	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. And then the next person to ask for the floor, Mr. Uffe Elbæk, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311104754	When I take the floor, it is to congratulate all of us, because I see that there is a great opportunity to move on to this agenda. We have heard it from the rapporteur on behalf of the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Bertel Haarder, that this is an important agenda, and we hear it from the Minister. So I really hope that those party-political teasings can be pushed aside and that we can have a very ambitious debate on this in the future. I really think it is a huge party day, i.e. when you talk about business policy like that. It is certainly a day of celebration for me, because I think it is absolutely crucial that we place much more emphasis on the benefits of our democratic companies. And what makes it particularly pleasing is that there is not just agreement in here; there is in fact also agreement out there between the established generation of cooperative companies such as Arla and Coop and LB insurance, Nykredi • one can mention the whole series • and then actually the new generation, i.e. Logik & Co. or Analyse and Tal or Copenhagen cooperatives. We are currently faced with a unique opportunity for legislative, but also political, in other words, to create a public presence around this area. This is in every way welcome, and I hope that the Minister will grasp the question that has been raised by Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Bertel Haarder, how the government can involve the opposition in this discussion. And I would just like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for having also raised the debate. After all, I've discussed this before with Mr. Knox. Bertel Haarder, how we can get more attention to it. And it has to be said that today's debate has emphasised that it is now time to seize the moment, as they say a little poetic. When I think this is not just, in quotation marks, in business policy, but also in democracy policy, it is because this type of company makes the employees into authoritative people who can't point the finger and say that they have a stupid middle manager or that they have a stupid employer or that they have a stupid professional representative. Everyone's got their fingers all the way down to the bun, both on good days and bad days. This is one of the things that makes me think this is so important, because this is far more than business policy. This is democracy policy. It is about how to support that we as citizens take our authority to us also at the workplace we are a part of, and that we feel that it is our responsibility, whether it is going well for the company or not. So I am just really, really happy that we have this debate and I take the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten on the floor and say: let us have a network across the political parties that has a particular focus on this whole issue. Because it is not certain that we are in fact politically agreed on a long one. So I am on top of the tall nails today, because I think it is simply a party day.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311105152	Thank you. And that did not give rise to any brief comments, so the next person to speak now is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. Sir. Bertel Haarder, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311105209	The first utility association in Thisted and the first cooperative dairy in Hjedding started a chapter in Danish history, which transformed Denmark from a rather poor agricultural country to what we know today. But we're gonna have to write on that chapter. The story isn't over. Never rest on your laurels. My grandfather was a farmman at Beergod, and he told me what it was like before the cooperative movement: You had to drive far to the grocery store with the butter, and if the price was too bad, there was nothing to do about it. But then they became masters of their own house, and that is what the cooperative movement is all about: that there are more who become masters of their own house. As Minister of Culture, Gudrun Aspel visited me, who is the fire soul behind Skærum Mølle in West Jutland. She had two maps. One showed a single dot at Hjedding in West Jutland, and 10 years later the Danmark map was black with dots, and it was all the co-operatives that had been created. So explosive it was, so epoch-making it was. And it's all about voluntary communities, unlike forced communities, which are called socialism. Voluntary communities are something quite different, and that is also why we can agree so widely that we need to have more voluntary communities in the production sector in Denmark, especially when it has now been documented by the Think Tank Democratic Business, that in fact we have in many ways fallen behind when it comes to co-existence. Therefore, it is important that we collect experiences, good and bad, from Denmark and not least from abroad, where I was greatly surprised at how widespread the cooperative model is in countries such as Sweden, France, Spain and the United States as well. And what the analyses show is that these companies are robust, they are productive, they can easily overcome a crisis, and there is an employee engagement that is important. We have Arla, Coop, Secure Insurance, Norlys and Nykredit and others. They are great and strong, and it is wonderful that they have grown up and become strong. But the story doesn't have to stop here. After all, we should like to get some new companies going, which can become just as big and strong. I was really happy about it, as sir. Orla Hav and Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen and Mrs Victoria Velasquez and Mr. Uffe Elbæk said, because it shows that there are many of us in this Chamber who think that the further process of what the government and the Finance Law parties have set in motion could well be a little inclusive, so that the commitment of a number of parties can be reflected in the broad political support behind what we hope will emerge from it. And I think that Mrs Katrine Robsøe played a very special role when it came into the Finance Act, and I thank her for that and thank the government for taking it up. But the rest of us thought that we were pretty early on with this, and we would very much like to be involved in one way or another, and I hope the Minister will take this seriously. He himself said that the proposal we are dealing with here is very similar to what the government has set in motion. And when it is very much like it, then there is good reason for it to be a joint project. So I would just like to reiterate the call for us to be invited, all the parties when there is something that needs to be decided. I would also like to thank you for a very good debate and thank my co-sponsors for being able to share this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311105755	Thank you, sir. Bertel Haarder. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311105809	The debate is open and the first to speak is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311105830	Thank you. Yesterday we had the pleasure of discussing how to move forward after the Climate Council report with our goal of 70%.'s greenhouse gas reduction by 2030. We agreed that we would not achieve a goal without new technologies. For some, carbon capture and power-to-x may sound like words from a distant future or science fiction film, but fortunately the technologies are much closer to reality than you might think. Because we will not achieve our reduction ambitions without the use of new technologies. So does the Climate Council. With the legislative proposal we are discussing today, the overall aim is precisely to ensure that the legislation supports the possibility of phasing in the new technologies. Our legislation must be prepared for the future that is at hand. We do this first and foremost by specifying that the law applies to all gases that can be introduced into the gas system, including gases from renewable energy sources, such as: Power-to-x. At the same time, it will be possible to build gas infrastructure for industry which needs green gases but is currently not connected to the gas system or is covered by the rules of the Heat Supply Act. The bill will also allow municipalities producing biogas today to seek permission from the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply to upgrade and add biogas to the gas system. With the bill, we follow up our climate agreement for energy and industry by giving the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply the opportunity to deliver, upgrade biogas and other gases from renewable energy sources until 2030. With the bill, we also give the Minister the opportunity to organise calls for tenders and to support the production of fuels or other products from electricity, what we call power-to-x. Because in the future we look into, gases and fuels from renewable energy sources will be crucial and we are in the process of securing the legal framework for that development. With the bill, we are also adjusting the economic regulation where the gas distribution sector will be consolidated in one state company. The regulation must support the green conversion to a much greater extent than at present and at the same time ensure the lowest possible cost. In addition, we shall adjust the retail gas market in order to harmonise the gas market with the electricity market where appropriate. That is why we are introducing a duty to supply to replace the current universal service regulation. This would benefit both consumers and competition. The last part of the draft law provides for the alignment of rules on own electricity production by company separation, so that regions are equated with municipalities. Now we spent the day yesterday discussing the next steps. Today we have already started work. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311110104	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311110121	Thank you. The release of Denmark's climate targets means that the role of the Danish gas system will be significantly changed in the coming years. Towards 2040 it is estimated that there will be significantly more green gas in the gas system and that the green gas will represent a significantly increasing share of the Danish gas consumption. Compared to a decrease in gas consumption, this means that green gas will amount to approx. 65% of the Danish gas consumption in 2030. In 2040 it is assumed that the entire Danish gas consumption is covered by green gas. This requires the adaptation of the natural gas supply law to give greater support to this green transition. Another important element of the bill is the provision of price supplements for upgraded biogas as well as the provision of support for the production of power-to-x. Power-to-x can contribute significantly to solving climate challenges. Green solar and wind power can be transformed into hydrogen or hydrogen based products such as ammonia, methanol, methane and diesel products and replace fossil fuels in those sectors that cannot run on pure electricity or battery. Wind and sun power can thus become climate-friendly fuel for aircraft, ships, trucks, and industry. Power-to-x has the potential to deliver important parts of climate solutions for Denmark to meet the ambitious climate targets by 2030. In those words, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311110242	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. Could I just ask the rapporteur to prepare a small alcohol cloth for the next rapporteur? Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311110306	Thank you, President. We in the Danish People's Party also want the green transition in the transport sector and the heating sector in particular, i.e. housing, to take place as smoothly as possible, but above all it is also the case that it will be with an economic sign. There is little vision for the future in that Denmark alone is doing a whole lot to become incredibly green if it doesn't happen with a technological starting point that can inspire realistic inspiration and get other countries to join. That is why we are very concerned about what the previous rapporteurs have said about how we can use all the power that we now agree to produce with both offshore wind turbines and solar cells and the like, in a way that we can replace some of the fossil fuels, but in the long term also in a competitive way, so that it is not only small Denmark in the north that becomes a green island, but that it is hopefully technology that can spread out to the rest of Europe, hopefully also the rest of the world, and become a really good business. It's the only way the world really changes; it's if these technologies become a good business. That is why we are in many of the agreements that have been reached. There is one small thing that puzzles us in the draft law put forward by the Minister here, but it is mostly in relation to the time perspective. One will first allow the power-to-x offer to be started for 2022. We are in March 2021. Is there any specific reason why we could not imagine that this could happen this year? We'd like to do something faster. What is our great ambition, the Danish People's Party, is that Denmark can become a leading country in the development of ccu, that is, where you take CO 2 To be very specific, we would like an area at Avedoors to be selected as a ccu test centre, namely the Avedoor plant, which every day supplies heat and power to many households and also emits CO 2 So it is like something that has been taken up while the photosynthesis allowed the trees to grow, and then it is released again when we take the energy. So if we can take the CO2 2 it could be a real green energy development center. The same can be imagined in Esbjerg, where there is a great deal of industrial development and where there is a need for new fuels, both for inland transport southwards, but also for aircraft capacity, ships and so on. to service our oil platforms • which we fortunately have up to 2050. Just as long as the world is looking for oil, it is a good idea that it is the countries that produce it with the lowest climate footprint that also place it on the world market. So we're glad about that. This is also true in relation to being a service port for the future offshore wind farms and islands that may be in the North Sea. So we put all this together, and so we are in the Danish People's Party. Then there is the part of the bill here that concerns the 2017 gas agreement, which, as you know, Dansk Folkeparti is not part of. This does not necessarily mean that we disagree with all the elements. Among other things: We are very concerned about the current ideas about biogas deliveries to Nordic Sugar on Lolland. We think that is a good thing. So we are also looking with undogmatic eyes at the part in which we are not a conciliation party. It may be that in committee we will raise some issues. But I think I'll let it hang like a cliffhanger. The tension must be excruciating to the Minister. So in those words, I would like to thank you for this bill, which the Danish People's Party therefore welcomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311110757	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311110809	Thank you. The bill has, of course, like two main focuss, and one is around gas, and the other part is around solar cells. Overall, I think it is worth noting that in the draft law there is a change of name from the natural gas supply law to the gas supply law. The initiated here know that it is a rather large shift compared to the gas area, because we are going to go away was the fossil-based natural gas for new forms of gas production. It is both gas that is made via pyrolysis, and it is naturally biogas, and it is also everything else that comes with power-to-x. Although it is a small line about a change in the name of the supply law, it is actually quite crucial that we shift focus from natural gas to gas in general. SF is part of all the agreements implemented in the gas part of the bill, and can generally support it. However, I think there are two things that are important to underline. One is about the speed of the tenders that can now be launched. After all, we have a lot of players out there: business owners, farmers, etc., who are ready to get started with biogas production to a greater extent than we already have, but in fact very, very many large Danish business companies are ready for the next step in terms of power-to-x. If it is possible to bring forward the offers to be able to start this year, that would be very, very good. Then it is the case that in the legislative proposal there will be increased powers for the Supply Inspectorate, and this is a discussion we have actually had before in relation to the electricity supply area. Once again, in the future, the Supply Inspectorate will have to design and control both the regulation that must be in the gas sector. Just as I was curious about why the Minister is proposing to move the authority in the electricity sector from a political level to the Supply Authority, which is not under political control, I have the same wonder here. It is basically very close to me that we must have political control, including with the regulation of the gas sector, in this context, not said that we do not have it, but it is in relation to this link. Then there's the part that's about solar cells. I believe that all the energy rapporteurs in here have a warm heart and a green heart for the municipalities' commitment to putting solar cells on the large roofs. We also have to say that we have been in the situation of allowing municipalities to set up more solar installations on large roofs with the tax exemption that would then be to pay the electricity tax, so it has to be said that in politics it also follows that you have to find the tax loss that will then be. So it was 1.7 billion. kr. We have not been able to find this in the SF, which is why we must also say that it is fair enough that there is a requirement to separate companies in the municipalities. I would also like to say, however, that I think it is important to stick to the fact that, although there are many municipalities who know about this with companies for energy production, in other words the utilities, at least there is still a task to help the municipalities for the separation of this company, and I would also like to mention that focus here. We have also discussed this in the negotiations on the solution in the area of solar cells, but it is important that the municipalities, when making companies, also know exactly how to do it. Then it is also important to remember that it is not per. PV installations. As long as you have one company, you can have more plants inside it. In SF's view, it is positive that exemptions are granted to the already existing PV plants that are in the municipalities from this corporate separation requirement, and there are also some other exemptions. So, overall, we think it is a good and reasonable compromise that lies here in relation to solar production in municipalities, but also in regions and also for the state. It's the same with the gas area. Overall, we support the bill with the fallen comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311111229	There are no brief comments, so we thank the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311111249	Thank you. Like the previous rapporteurs, the Radical Left can support the proposal. It is good that we are taking into account in the legislation that there will be an increasing proportion of non-fossil based gas in our gas pipelines. And, of course, we also support the supply in relation to power-to-x. All in all, we are very pleased with the draft law and support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311111309	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311111325	It's one of these technical bills where the written submission can't even be on one page. It's rare that it happens. If we look at matter in this, it is quite natural to change the legislation. And I think it's interesting that we come up with some offers on power-to-x. We had a hearing in the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee recently on the potential of power-to-x, where it was outlined that it was perhaps 2 million. And that's what we're gonna have to take into account in that fight to get to CO2 t. But I also think it's worth mentioning 'cause it's often the case that those solutions close to 2030 get a lot of attention... that we also need to focus on what the potential is in it. I would like to see the future work really relate to the fact that the energy waste associated with power-to-x must be incorporated into our district heating systems. So it requires a good planning of where it is, you place it that you not only find the cheapest building site, but also look at how there is the best access to the district heating system, and that you also consider what it is for a downstream industry that can arise. Yesterday we had a paper in the agricultural study group which is running, and there was a paper which clearly indicated that there could be a future protein production which needed oxygen in their production and that it would make sense to place in connection with some power-to-x plants if it were some processes which, like, had plenty of oxygen available. So in further planning it is important to take all aspects into account when making good planning that it is not only putting power-to-x so that we can connect it to the district heating system, but that you also have other aspects in it. Then there is the part of the bill that concerns solar cells in regions and municipalities. After all, it is a pity that the conditions for solar cells in the regions should be reduced, and I welcome the fact that a number of large solar installations have been successfully installed in hospitals. It has then been made clear in response to the consultation that the installations set up are operating under the conditions that existed when they were set up and that the regions will have to set up only one energy company per year. region. I always find it a little funny when there is such secondary legislation, because it has been overlooked that there is something called regions in Denmark, because that is what is the fact about it, i.e. that the regions were driving under the radar and thus had a lot of solar installations set up. And we have it in the Enhedslisten that we think it is very good that regions and municipalities are involved in the sustainable transformation, and I am sorry that when you read comments on the consultation answers, there is, as I read it, a different attitude. I think it is quite fine that the public sector will reduce its energy costs by being involved in the sustainable transition • I do not find that so difficult. Then it may well be that we should find the money elsewhere, but I actually think it is very important when we talk about renewable energy that we cherish that popular support should be grown, and it is there for me to see that popular support is also there for municipalities and regions to take part in that conversion. Overall, we can support this bill, and we think it is appropriate in committee to discuss what the SF is discussing about the Supply Authority and how we handle it best and ensure political control it is an important aspect. So that's where we'd like to take a look at whether to make changes in that field. But in spite of that little thistle for the regions, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311111733	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Egil Hulgaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311111751	Thank you. After all, this draft law shows that we have seen the blessings of the gas. A few years ago, when following the debate on gas in Denmark, it was felt that it was something to be phased out. And that goes for the natural gas. Fortunately, there is another possibility in the biogas, and this bill is precisely an expression of the fact that we see some options in gas in Denmark, also in the future, because it can become CO2 I will make a few cuts in relation to the bill, which contains quite a few elements. The first is whether it is sufficiently far-reaching in relation to gas forms other than biogas and hydrogen. What about carbon dioxide, what about oxygen? Is there any need in this draft law to take account of the fact that, as other rapporteur has said, we are moving in the direction of power-to-x and carbon capture, and that there is some transport of gas that we have to take into account here? This is not quite clear to me, and I hope that will be reflected in the further examination of the draft law. One of the things that is part of the legislative proposal is the introduction of the obligation to supply gas, as is the case in the electricity sector. And in the electricity sector, there are some problems with the obligation to supply, and let me address a corner of the problem: that landlords will have to bear the bill if a tenant does not pay for the supply of electricity and gas. I do not think that the draft law takes sufficient account of the fact that there are bad payers out there. There are payers out there who are wondering about this. Some in my company have been stationed and rented their house and have come home for a bill. Apart from the fact that the tenants had not paid rent, they had not paid for electricity either. They had paid for the gas, because you could shut it down, but you couldn't do that for electricity. And we are now getting into that problem in relation to the gas. So I think we need a closer drilling of the negative consequences for non-professional landlords to make a duty to supply the gas. Specifically: How do we ensure that landlords, including non-professional landlords, do not pay for the consumption of tenants, where the obligation to supply is abused to obtain free electricity, and now also gas? In other words, it is important that we use our housing stock properly, and if it is the case that we do not counter the abuse that exists, then there will be potential landlords who do not rent their property and that will not be an effective use of our housing stock. So I would like to clarify that. BL also mentions it as a problem and makes a proposal in relation to what is not answered in the consultation answer, i.e. when the landlord does not have sufficient scope for action. And we'd like that part too to be bored out. The last part has also been commented on, and it is about the agreement on the installation of solar cells in municipalities, and we have landed on the agreement that has now been implemented here, and we endorsed it by Conservatives. I still think that there is a discussion about where we are setting the cut in relation to the fact that we want to inspire municipalities and citizens to invest in renewable energy and when it will be economically profitable for them to do so. As the SF rapporteur said, we did not just have 1.7 billion. kr. to the municipalities in this round, but it's still gone a discussion we'd like to have: Where do we put the cut? In those words, Conservatives support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311112200	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311112218	The draft law we are discussing today is a single proposal, and it consists of a number of elements. The main purpose of the bill is to ensure the phasing-in of gas from renewable energy sources into the existing gas system, the regulation of Danish gas distribution companies and the adjustment of the market design for the Danish gas retail market. And it consists of a number of elements. The Act on natural gas supply supports the integration of gas from renewable energy. This gives the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply the authority to organise the provision of upgraded biogas and power-to-x by adjusting the economic regulation of gas distribution and adjusting the rules of the gas market and similar regions to municipalities in relation to the own generation of electricity at corporate separation. The draft law entails certain additional costs for business, although some of these will only be assessed in connection with the issuing of notices. And it also involves public expenditure, although it is not specified in the draft law. This applies, among other things, to: in the form of authorisation by the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply to provide price increases for upgraded biogas and other gases from renewable energy sources, as well as support for the production of chemical fuels or other products from electricity. This is a very comprehensive and technical draft law with many comments from the consulted consultation parties, and New Citizens will take a position on the draft law in connection with the committee work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311112351	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. We are through the rapporteur's line, so now we have reached the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311112412	Let me start by thanking the rapporteurs for their good speeches and good comments. It is absolutely crucial that we develop and adjust the regulation of our gas supply in Denmark so that the rules become more up-to-date. At the same time, it is important that we integrate green technologies into the energy sector, which are important tools for achieving climate targets. The government, by a broad majority in the Folketing, has concluded several political agreements showing the direction of the green conversion of the gas area. The ambitious 70-percent objective of the Climate Act means, of course, that we need less natural gas in the future than we do today. With the climate agreement for energy and industry, we agreed that gas for the individual heat of households should be phased out. With the forthcoming biogas supply, we are getting significantly more biogas into the gas system, which will thereby crowd out the consumption of fossil natural gas. In addition, the forthcoming supply of power-to-x helps to launch a new era in Danish energy policy. With the agreement to stop oil and natural gas extraction in the North Sea by 2050 at the latest, we will end another era in Danish energy policy. With these marked changes, there is a need to ensure that the regulatory framework is in place. Among other things, it has to be done. This bill helps to secure. The draft law contains the following main elements: firstly, the draft law contains a number of technical adjustments to clarify that the law applies to all gases that may be introduced into the gas system, for example: renewable energy sources such as biogas, hydrogen and pyrolysis gas. The adjustments also need to ensure interaction between distribution systems and transmission systems, so that we have an optimal transport of green gases. This should be seen in the light of the fact that more biogas is being produced around the country in the future. In addition, it will be possible to build new gas infrastructures for industry that needs gas. Secondly, the draft law empowers the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply to organise invitations to tender for the period 2022-2030. The details of the tenders shall be determined later after discussions within the conciliation circle. I think, too, sir. Morten Messerschmidt asked whether it could be speeded up. We would, of course, like to look at this in the negotiations with the parties. First, there must be political clarification, a political compromise. Then it must be approved by the European Union. We have done so little with the probes with the European Union, but we cannot seek a final solution until we have the agreement, and we know that from experience we are taking some time. Therefore, the best offer is probably 2022, but let's take a closer look at it. It is about the supply of upgraded biogas and other gases from renewable energy as well as the supply of fuels or other products from electricity, also called power-to-x. The tenders will contribute to the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030 and on climate neutrality by 2050. Thirdly, it is proposed that the financial regulation of the gas distribution should be adjusted in the light of the fact that in the future the gas distribution companies will be brought together in one company, Evida, rather than in three distribution companies. It is also proposed that the details of the regulation be laid down by the Supply Control Authority. It is after inspiration from the bill on new, forward-looking economic regulation of Energinet, adopted by the Danish Parliament in December. There were also a few critical questions about this. I also propose that we should, of course, go further in the committee procedure, but what I just want to emphasise is that when we talk about monopoly activities, it is quite necessary that we have an independent authority which can go in and ensure that the things that are going on are also done in the interests of the Community. I think we all agree on that, so of course we have to find a proper way of doing that, without prejudice to Parliament's ability to set the framework for it. The adjustment shall ensure that the regulation takes into account the expected development of the sector with an increasing share of biogas in the gas system and a decrease in gas consumption for households in particular. Fourthly, the regulation of the retail gas market is being adjusted for the benefit of consumers and competition. In addition, a gas supply obligation is introduced to replace the current universal service regulation. Such a supply obligation has already been introduced in the electricity sector. This means that in the future all household consumers will be able to purchase all marketed products. It is also proposed to give the Supply Authority the responsibility for owning and operating the price portal for the Danish gas market. They are already responsible for owning and operating the price portal for the electricity market, www.elpris.dk. Fifthly, the draft law ensures that regions are treated in the same way as municipalities in relation to the fact that own electricity production is to be carried out in companies with limited liability. The VE2 Directive requires Member States to guarantee the right of all consumers to consume self-produced electricity, including local authorities. It is considered that the requirement for the separation of municipal companies can be maintained, but at the same time it is considered that regions are to be treated as municipalities in relation to the fact that own electricity production is to be carried out in separate companies with limited liability. This will help to ensure that PV expansion takes place in the most socio-economically appropriate manner. In its entirety, the draft law contributes to the setting of the framework for the green transition. The draft law also follows up many of the agreements we have concluded together recently. I would like to thank you for your interest in the draft law and look forward to the committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113016	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113049	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113057	Thank you. The proposal here involves examining the possibilities and models for making a total ban on wood stoves and fireplaces etc. in Denmark. Firstly, the proposers want to highlight the positive environmental and health consequences that will result from a total ban, and secondly, concrete proposals are being made as to how a total ban can be implemented in the most appropriate way. Finally, it is desirable to check whether households with wood stoves, fireplaces, pellet pine and the like, which have it as primary heat sources, can and should be compensated. On the whole, I can easily follow the concerns of the proposers. Air pollution is a major and well-documented problem. Thousands of Danes get sick or die prematurely from air pollution, and I and the government take this very seriously. WHO has assessed air pollution as one of the biggest environmental and health challenges today, and Aarhus University estimates that the main environmental cause of disease and premature death due to air pollution in Denmark is particulate pollution. At the same time, Denmark is challenged to reach the reduction target for particulate matter, the NEC directive on national targets for particulate emissions, by 2030. Approx. 75% We are not ourselves masters of air pollution in Denmark. It's blowing here from abroad. It is no use, therefore, that we should be putting ourselves in Denmark alone. We must also bring the rest of Europe. The last approx. 25% of air pollution in Denmark comes from Danish sources such as wood burning, including wood stoves, cars, industry and agriculture. According to Aarhus University, 4,600 Danes died prematurely in 2019 as a result of all air pollution. Of these, approx. 400 premature deaths emissions from Danish wood-burning furnaces, wood-burning boilers etc. That is why we must do even more to bring air pollution down than we already do today. And I agree with the proposer that we should also reduce the pollution from combustion. We must be concerned about air pollution, but at the same time bear in mind that in the last 30 years Denmark has experienced a significant fall in air pollution, also as a result of the regulation of combustion. There have been environmental requirements in Denmark for all new wood stoves since 2008. The same is happening now in the EU from 2022 when the EU ecodesign requirements for wood stoves come into force in all Member States. We have had scrapping schemes that have increased the replacement of the oldest wood-burning furnaces, and most recently a broad majority in the Danish Parliament has adopted an amendment to the environmental protection law, which means that old wood-burning furnaces from before 2003 must be scrapped or replaced to a newer model in the case of the change of ownership of fixed housing. As you know, the law was passed in December last year, in other words quite recently, and it is expected that the rules will come into force from 1 August of this year. This is the first time we have ever made it compulsory on the political side to scrap or switch wood-burning furnaces, and this is an important step towards cleaner air. There are also exciting perspectives in filter solutions for wood stoves, which we must have tested in relation to permanent effects. As the experience with filters increases and to the extent that filters are available at a sufficiently low price, particle filters will be able to provide a promising solution. That is why I am also pleased that we are engaged in a very exciting technology project to reduce emissions from wood stoves. The project will include: test and demonstrate modern technologies that can reduce emissions from wood stoves. It is a so-called MUDP lighthouse project for over 10 million. kr., where technologies and among others. filters are tested in full scale in a residential area in Aarhus. A good news is that the latest study of the fuel consumption carried out by the Danish Energy Agency shows a decrease in the fuel consumption in private households of approx. 30% from 2015 to 2019. There are, of course, considerable uncertainties about fuel combustion consumption data, but it is estimated that there is a positive development. So we have taken a number of steps and we need to move on. But a total ban on wood stoves is the wrong solution. It will be possible to significantly reduce particulate emissions by other, less intrusive means, and it should also be remembered that burning in some places is the only source of heat. Stove ovens are also subject to EU ecodesign requirements and, in this context, the product is generally considered to be the most restrictive measure that a Member State can apply. So instead we have to go other ways. First of all, we need to implement the change of ownership scheme, which bans wood stoves from before 2003 at the time of the change of ownership of real estate, and that work is in full swing. We have stated in the past that we would like to look at whether the municipalities can have more tools and how they can better use the opportunities to limit combustion that is already permitted. The municipalities, for example, have... even today the possibility of introducing delimited combustion restricted zones, if that is environmentally justified. The government focuses on combating air pollution both in the large cities and on the villa roads in all parts of the country. As I said, I share the concerns of the proposers. The negative effects of air pollution from wood stoves are serious, and we have taken the first steps to ensure cleaner air in Denmark, and we must move on from here. However, a total ban on kilns, on which the proposal is based, is the wrong solution, since, as I said before, it will be possible to reduce particulate emissions by other and less intrusive measures. Against this background, the government does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113633	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113641	Thank you and thank the Minister for the positive attitude to this great challenge that we have and for the recognition that it is as great as it is. It is true that, at the end of October last year, a law was passed requiring that, in the case of change of ownership, wood-burning furnaces older than from 2003 should be outsourced or new ones needed. But what about all those who don't change ownership? Do the government and the minister have any thoughts about what to do with them? After all, it is by far the majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113717	Thank you for the question. It is true that we agree that we must reduce air pollution in Denmark. This is important, and that is why we took the step where, for the first time in this way, we have entered and regulated the wood-burning furnaces that are in the Danes' homes, so that they will be scrapped at this change of ownership. And that is right when the questioner asks: 'Well, there are not other things you can do?' That is exactly what I went through, i.e. both some of the things that we have done in Denmark and that we are looking at, but also that we have to bring the rest of the European Union with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113749	Thank you. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113753	Thank you. I heard that the Minister had many things going on, namely research and so on. But I was actually looking for concrete measures. What is the next step taken by the government? And I'm thinking that one of the places you could look at is all those who have wood stoves or fireplaces etc. as primary heat source. Could the Minister imagine making an aid scheme for the 15 000 owners who have it as a primary source of heat?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113827	I think it is a good thing that the questioner has a look for all those who use wood-burning furnaces as their primary source of heat, i.e. where it is not a question of extra heat and extra cozy in the fireplace, but where it is the heat source that is available. Perhaps that is why I think that the proposal that has been put forward here today is wrong, so that we do not have a look at how intrusive a proposal it really is when we can solve it in other ways. And there it is in the Folketing that we look at it differently from party to party. So we agree on the challenge, but we disagree on the means.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113901	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113905	The Minister said that we have to move forward, and that is quite right, because when we dealt with that small bill to tighten up, compared to when there is a change of ownership and there is an old stove, we got figures on how little it was part of the solution to comply with the NEC directive by 2030, so more needs to be done. So I would really like to hear the Minister's next step. I myself think that it should be phasing out more furnaces in the areas where we have district heating. Why should there be 16,000 wood stoves in the City of Copenhagen? When the municipality has its energy supply from the burning of chips and wood pellets and waste, why is it that there are 16,000 wood-burning furnaces that have to slip? Can the Minister not see that it is reasonable to take action there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311113956	Now I could hear that there was a slight difference between the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and the government, in relation to whether we believe that what we have just adopted together is a very small step or an important step on the way, and peace be with it. However, it is a step towards air pollution. I also believe that we have always been completely open and honest about the fact that it does not bring us all the way and that we therefore need to move forward. That is also what the rapporteur has said. Then it is true that there are different ways of moving forward, and that was some of the points I raised here. Among other things: There will be some EU regulation that will also help us. One of the figures I mentioned at the outset was that 75%. of the air pollution that is in Denmark comes flying here from other countries. That is why, of course, we also have to deal with the countries around us. So that's one of the things that's coming. We'll take a look. on these filter solutions, which I have also listened to there is a lot of interest in here in the Danish Parliament. What we are discussing today is, of course, the question of a total ban on wood stoves, and we do not support that. But should something else happen? Yes, I think that many of us agree on that in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114103	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114107	In other words, if the Minister again visits the annexes of the legislative proposal we were discussing, the Minister will see that it was a small step that was taken at the time, which does not comply at all with the NEC directive, and that is why something more needs to be done. I would really like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is aware of the fact that there are some municipalities, some town councils, which in such a way demand that they have more tools to prevent so many kilns in the areas where there is a district heating supply. Now it says 41 seconds left on my screen here, and that's great. I have the impression that there are larger municipalities, including city council members and citizens' representatives in Copenhagen, who have come to the realization that more needs to be done to reduce particulate pollution. When we have these dense cities, where there are many people living together on a small area, it is of extra importance that we have reduced particulate pollution. In the Enhedslisten we differentiate a lot when we look at it. It is something quite different when we go to the countryside and there we should deal differently with the wood-burning furnaces that are there. However, in relation to addressing those areas where there is a dense population and there is a district heating system, there is another heat supply, can the Minister not see that we should respond to some city councils which, as such, have a desire for them to have more instruments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114218	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114221	Well, if I am going to start where the rapporteur also started, I really do not need to go back to the annexes, because, as I said, one can look at it a little differently. But that is a contribution to reducing air pollution, and I think it is an important step on the way. Does that bring us all the way? No, it doesn't. In relation to what is being asked about, i.e. with the municipalities and their tools, I would say that yes, I am aware of several municipalities that have raised this. I have also answered a number of questions that have come from this, and we also have socialist members of town councils around the country, not only in the large municipalities, but also where it can be a limit on the villa roads with a lot of air pollution, and that is why we need to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114308	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114310	Thank you, Minister. I quite agree with the Minister when she says that this proposal is wrong in relation to what needs to be used. I would like to follow up on this with the municipalities: is the government willing to allow the municipalities to be able to tighten up the requirements in relation to environmental zones, etc.? There has just been a suggestion from SF's members of the city council in Aarhus to make some restrictions. Will it be given access so that we can protect those places where there is otherwise access to heat sources and thus also create that differentiation? For other places there is clearly a need for wood-burning furnaces and there are places where they do not give the same genes as we see in the larger cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114356	First of all, I would like to say that I think it is important to proceed in a nuanced way, as the SF's rapporteur has said here, so that you have a look at both where it is the primary heat source, where there is district heating and where it is a major problem. The Social Democratic Party already said before the elections that some of the things that need to be looked at are whether you can give the municipalities more tools for this. So that's one of the things that needs to be looked at. But it is not necessarily something that is quite simple. There are also various legal rules that are important in this respect, but I would also say that I have given the answer in the past that it is some of the things that I think it is obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114434	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114437	This will also allow local ownership of decisions and a vision of the challenges that may be facing the various neighbourhoods, etc., as the Minister has said. Then a receipt that the minister will look into it. I think this is something we should move on relatively quickly, especially if it is as complex as the Minister says in legal terms, because then I know that sometimes it can take a very long time. So let us get started giving municipalities the opportunity to create proper environmental zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114504	I just want to sign for the green, constructive impatience, which I know applies to many here in the Folketing. It is wonderful, because we have been elected on a historic green mandate, and there are also expectations that we will address all the environmental problems that exist. I think that we have already made a good deal of progress, including in the area of air pollution, but it is clear that we must also move forward together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114524	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the Minister. Then we come to the rapporteur's line, and that is first Mrs Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114535	Thank you, President. Thousands of citizens in Denmark die prematurely each year because of air pollution. This means that we simply have to take air pollution seriously. One of the very large contributors to air pollution that we have in Denmark is, unfortunately, wood-burning furnaces, old wood-burning furnaces. A few months ago, we adopted very broadly here in the Danish Parliament, as the Minister mentioned, a bill requiring new owners of a property to replace a wood stove or fireplace action if it was produced before 1 January 2003. It is therefore a requirement in relation to the change of ownership of housing. I am, in fact, pleased that we have already taken the first step in combating air pollution caused by wood stoves and fireplaces, because I have to say that although the crackling fire is so cozy and can give cozy moments, especially a day like today with rough weather, it is therefore important that we limit the emissions of particles and the stove crackling should not be at the expense of other people. Our legislation therefore requires the replacement of the old wood stoves within 12 months, and it is our hope that it will ensure that more than 40,000 thousand wood stoves are torn down and removed in the homes until 2027. At the same time, we know that new models of wood stoves emit far fewer particles than the old models. So this is a really good place to start. With regard to the resolution before us today, it is a good thing that we want to do something more about the pollution of wood stove, but that goes further than the rules we have already adopted, and that goes too far. A total ban on the use of wood stoves and fireplaces in less than four years' time is disproportionate, because we have not yet exhausted the possibilities, as we could also hear some of the comments that have been made in the past, for further restrictions on air pollution by less intrusive means than a definite national total ban. Having said that, we agree that heat sources in our homes must be made greener. In addition to the rules for wood stoves, we have looked at other sources of heat, and billions have been set aside for the replacement of oil and gas burners in the coming years. We can and we must do more to reduce air pollution. We must ensure better air quality. We do, for example. in traffic with several electric cars, various bans and environmental zones in the larger cities. But a total ban on the use of wood stoves and fireplaces in a few years' time does not seem to me to be the way forward at this stage. The proposal is sympathetic, but it is too intrusive. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114947	Thank you. Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311114950	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I fully agree that there are many measures we can take, but how long do we have to wait? So what will the rapporteur's answer be to a family who lives in 15 minutes, perhaps with small children, where there are wood stoves all around and where you can feel that smell and it is not good, and you know that, and that is dangerous for the children you have? What will the rapporteur's answer be to them? How long do they have to wait?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115025	First of all, I want to say that we take this very seriously. We just made a law. I don't even think it's been able to come into force yet. We have but it's only the first step. We'll move on, and I'm sure we can do that together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115052	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115054	But what is the next step, that is to say, the next step, which really has something to do with those who live out among the wood stoves and fireplaces that pollute the air with particulate pollution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115110	Well, the next step is what we need to discuss. That is what we need to discuss with the Minister for the Environment, in other words what the possibilities are for tightening up so that we can take the next step. I think there is a clear recognition on the part of the Minister in saying that this was the first step. The first step means that more steps will be taken and they should very much be taken during this parliamentary term. That is all I can say at this stage until we have some concrete proposals that are being put forward. But that does not change the fact that it is very important for the Social Democrats and for the government that we do something about air quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115159	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur. Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115227	Now the minister had before a pugga was in his throat, so to stay in the Bornholmian, I would say that it was good for the minister today, in the sense that it was actually a very fine review, as the Minister had done, I would like to acknowledge that in relation to the very actions that have been set in motion and which have also been broadly agreed here in the Danish Parliament. Some of this has not even been implemented yet, as Mrs Gjerskov, I think, said. The proposal states that the proposers would like the government to investigate the possibility of a total ban on wood stoves, fireplaces, pellet pine and other combustion plants. As you know, the Left is a liberal party, and that is why we do not want to deprive private people of the possibility of having such things in private homes. There are also some practical conditions: there may be places, and it is typical in rural areas that you can see it, where it is the only heat source you have, and that means that it will be a very, very major intervention in the possibility of warming up your home if you simply put in a total ban. That does not change the fact that we also have a good sympathy for the idea behind it and, as both the Minister and Mrs Gjerskov have said, we would like more to be done for our air pollution, that is to say, that we will have to combat particulate pollution, which costs more deaths per year. But there are different kinds of grip that can be used, in the toolbox, without having to resort to bans, and we would rather look at possibilities than in limitations, including in this case. There is, of course, everything that I think the Minister has said about technological developments and the projects that have been set in motion and are being worked on in relation to putting filters on which already seemingly very good results are being achieved. And that must be what we are going for, that is, to create a better air and cleaner air and get some results out of what is being set in motion, and then still give the Danes the opportunities that lie in this. As has also been said, we have already adopted legislation not so long ago on the change of ownership to replace the oldest furnaces, those from before 2003, which are, of course, the ones we know the most. So it can be said that in this specific area things have already been set in motion, both in relation to the legislation on a change of ownership and then the whole technological development, which has left some very fine traces, and which is, of course, the way we need to go precisely to create the opportunity for better and cleaner air. There is also the dimension I referred to just before the event, which we certainly notice, namely that there is a town-country imbalance potential here, compared to where we can see there are alternatives and where there are no real alternatives. At any rate, that is one of the things that we, on our part, are also very aware of. So on the left, we can say that we do not support the proposal for a total ban. We do not believe that this affects what we would like to see, namely that we are working towards more technology, filters that work and more voluntaryness, but not with bans and such things in the toolbox. So we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115557	Thank you. Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115601	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a positive approach to improving air quality. I see that in 2019 the Left granted a grant of 30 million. kr. for the establishment of new wood stoves and a grant in 2020 of 16 million. kr. What is the rapporteur's position in relation to volunteering, in other words, in relation to subsidising those who want to shut down wood-burning furnaces or who want to choose the less good solution, namely to set up new wood-burning furnaces with new filters? That was one thing. And the other thing is in relation to giving those people who have stove ovens as the only heat source, a supplement to, for example. establishing heat pumps.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115654	I mean, I think it's always more positive to go the incentive route than to come up with a definite ban. I actually think so. So the fact that you still have it as an opportunity, but that you also give it even better opportunities, even in economic terms, seems to me to be a better approach to it. But here, too, it is about how we get the most effect, you might say, or mostly the environment for the money. There is, of course, always a prioritising discussion about where it is that we can take action in relation to the cost or subsidy that we now have to finance. And I will not be sure of that, i.e. whether or not it is about to give a subsidy of some size. But it is clear that we have experience, so I will be more open to that than a ban. We have experience of precisely the incentives in relation to oil fire replacements and such. So let's talk more about it when, just as several others have said, we have to take the next step and see what is then of different options. But a ban isn't exactly our cup of tea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115753	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115757	Thank you. Now the rapporteur spoke about the concept of freedom and the concept of freedom of the Left, which we know and for which I have great sympathy. There's just one problem with that freedom over where it's located. So, if you live in a densely populated area and do not have a wood stove, but want to have fresh air and maybe have respiratory diseases, and then you are surrounded by wood stove it could be in Copenhagen, it could also be in many other places. Then you can ask: What kind of freedom do the citizens have? Is that the freedom to move somewhere else?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115831	Of course, there is that possibility, that is to say, that you can do it. But I do recognise that there are places where the concentration of furnaces is higher than elsewhere; that is the way it has to be. And that is also why I say that there may be other things. Well, we've just made legislation... we're about to implement it... about replacing the wood-burning furnaces that are the oldest and thus the most polluting. There are also plenty of other sources of air pollution, unfortunately, including air pollution. in the Copenhagen area. We are talking about diesel cars and there is talk of everything else in this direction. So there are plenty of different elements, and there it is just that I say that there we have to put in where we also have the greatest effect. And it is not necessarily by making a ban; on the contrary, it may be by making some possibilities for cleaning the air from wood-burning furnaces and replacing all the most polluting ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115920	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311115952	Thank you. Then we have here a proposal for a total ban on the use of wood stoves, fireplaces, pill pine, in other words, all forms of wood burning in private homes. Parliament is on a strong green mandate, but it is not a mandate that makes us do crazy things, and this is certainly a crazy proposal. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I cannot at all understand why both the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur, and for that matter the Left, too, can speak nicely about this. It seems as if you do not understand at all what is going on in the private homes. I do not understand this either as a person or as a representative of the Danish People's Party. For example, you have in HOFOR, which makes heat for Copenhagen, Denmark's largest city, a green heating system that runs on wood chips and wood pellets, among other things. from the Amazon in Brazil. Then you cut down some trees over in Brazil, and then you process them and sail them to Denmark, and then you burn them off. It's completely CO2 We're on a strong green mandate, and that's why we cut down some trees over in the Amazon and burn them off in Copenhagen because we're on a strong green mandate. But if a citizen goes down in the back of the garden, traps a tree, lays the wood to dry 1 to 2 years and then puts it into his wood stove, then there must be a ban. That's quite awful. As the Socialist rapporteur said, this is where people die. Yes, there is, if you fire completely wrong, I completely agree with that, and there is particle contamination. But listen, you cannot stand up here and say that you are on a strong green mandate, and then we are sailing wood from Amazona to Denmark on the green mandate, but the citizens who do not have access to district heating, who may not be able to afford to buy the heat pump, and who do not just have the means to convert their heat at home, are firing something that is CO2 It is incomprehensible to me that you could come up with such a proposal. This proposal alone is an attack on the province, because it is out there that you do not just have the wood stove as a cozy; it is out there that you have the wood stove because you have to have heat in your home; it is out there where you can have a sensible heating economy because you live in an older house, perhaps also with a slightly inferior insulation capacity, and then you fire with firewood. There are also some who are actually investing quite a lot of money in getting themselves a pill guy that complies with all the rules, is EU-approved and all, is CO2 we simply do not understand that, and we cannot say very well about this proposal that the previous rapporteurs have been able to make. We can only say that we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311120248	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311120252	Thank you. That was a clear speech, and I actually have a great deal of respect for it. I would say that something really, really bad is happening in one place, for example. in relation to importing wood into district heating plants, we can only agree that is totally unacceptable. However, this does not mean that it will be better to make air pollution somewhere else where we can see that 550 people die prematurely a year because of respiratory diseases, cardiovascular diseases, cancer, etc. Does the rapporteur not want to help the citizens who are affected by this and who live in areas where there are many wood stoves and a lot of particle contamination?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311120340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311120341	Yes, absolutely, but that is why we should not have a ban on, for example, pill pine. Today you can buy a pill guy that is fully computer controlled, who has control of the air and everything, how much features there are in the chimney, and who measures it all, completely in the same way that you can fire CO2 District heating is great, and we are the world leader in what we are good at, and where you have district heating, most also choose to do so because it is also competitive. So we would like to do that, but then it is not a ban. Then there is more information, and there could also be a subsidy to replace the old wood-burning ovens instead of the proposal that has been put forward by the government and which, in fact, has now become law, where the sale of a house obliges you to replace your wood-burning stove and where, regardless of whether you sell a house to 10 million people. kr. Or one to $375,000, so I'm gonna need this big investment that's gonna hit the province awkwardly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311120433	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311120435	Thank you. But now this law, which was passed last October, is such that it is the wood-burning furnaces that are from before 2003 that have to be changed at the time of the change of ownership. But what about all the other old guys? Because it is true that you can fire in many different ways and that you can fire with much less particle contamination than with much more. But we have a problem with all the old guys standing there and continuing to emit particle contamination.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311120510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311120511	There will now be a grant to replace a diesel car before 2006 of 5,000 DKK. If we look at an old wood stove where you also fire incorrectly, a wood stove actually pollutes at least as much as an old diesel car from before 2006. Why on earth is there a subsidy to replace your diesel car and not to replace your old wood stove? In the case of wood-burning furnaces, legislation and hammers are put in your hand and hit people on your head either with a ban as there is here, or with the way the government has done it, where it has to be done in connection with a sale. We would very much like to have newer wood stoves and newer pill guys, but we will do that with a carrot with a grant and not with a whip that you put up for here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311120549	Thank you. And then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311120607	Thank you. Some rapporteurs have commended the proposal; the last one was a little hard on it. And one can always choose to approach such a proposal here from different angles, so although I think it is a wrong solution to be proposed, and although I think it is a little too unfortunate in some way to propose a study of a total ban instead of a study of concrete measures which could actually do something, I would like to commend it for addressing this issue so that we can discuss wood stoves and the harmful effects of wood stoves. Because we know that air pollution, particulate pollution is a major problem and we know how serious it is for people how many people get sick and die. It's special in the cities, and there's just a huge role to be played by wood stoves. So thank you for raising the agenda again. After all, this is an agenda that we have been concerned about and concerned about for a very long time, that is to say, with the harmful environmental and health effects that are the result of people having wood stoves. And it's especially in the cities where we live very close, and where it's like reinforced the more people we live together, and the more wood stoves there are. We just do not believe that a total ban is proportional to the challenge, which is less outside the cities. And again: There are different needs, and there are different realities depending on where you live in the country. And I think that is something we need to bear in mind when we come up with such a proposal here. However, as I said in my question to the Minister, we think that the municipalities should have access to tighten up the requirements of environmental zones. This is also something that our city roots in Aarhus have been out to propose and which they have also addressed to the Minister about the possibilities for. It is also to tighten up the requirements in relation to filters, and I think that we have all received a request from Danish Environmental Technology about filters, and that is exactly where I think it is quite interesting what it says about the new filters, which can of course do a great deal. So we are really in favour of constantly improving the possibilities for local action for this, and at the same time lifting the bar in relation to filters and the environment etc. And I think that we really should go into detail on precisely where we are pointing out in relation to these new very efficient filters that the price will also decrease considerably if we create a market, and that is what we do through demands. We think that is a very interesting way to go. However, we should not therefore support the proposal, but, unlike previous rapporteurs, I would like to pay tribute to the fact that we have the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311120913	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311120915	It's always nice to get recognition, so thank you for that. The rapporteur says that it would be a good thing to look at concrete ways of reducing this particulate emissions. Does the rapporteur have any specific measures in mind, in other words something that is quite specific, so that we can say that we are now embarking on something?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311120935	As I said both in my speech and as I mentioned in my question to the Minister, it is quite concrete to give the municipalities the right to make demands in relation to environmental areas. I think that is very concrete, and I really like the decentralized thinking so that it is actually something that can be considered in the municipalities; it is not something where we need to sit and make one arrangement for the whole country from here. And then there's this very specific thing about the filters. We have received a request, and I also think that Mrs Susanne Zimmer has received it, from Danish Environmental Technology, and that is where I think we should have examined very quickly in relation to these filters whether we can get them down in price so that it is not so much a burden. Around DKK 16,000, on which the price is based, is a relatively high price, and if we can get it down by doing something, and if we can see how effective they are, then it is also something very concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311121020	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311121023	Yeah, and that's fine, that's not the ideal solution, of course, but it's fine to reduce emissions from the wood-burning furnaces we have. I also think it is good to give the municipalities the opportunity to create environmental zones that SF's members of the city council in Aarhus want. But what about, for example... a scrapping premium which has also been proposed by city council politicians in the SF? Is this something that could be advocated in national politics?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311121053	Well, I think we should always look at how we do this, precisely in terms of replacing the most ancient wood-burning furnaces. But I kind of think it's ideal to look at it in a nuance. And I do not think it is ideal to propose a total ban in Denmark as proposed. We are very willing to look at all the options that are available, but let us now look at it when there are new filters, as is the case now. Let us get it out, and at the same time bear in mind that there are places in the country where people currently live. has a wood stove as primary heat source. And let's make sure it's the best possible wood stove they've got. I do not think we should impose a total ban only on some idea of what is happening in cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311121136	Thank you. There are no more comments. We need to get a little sprained, and then we can move on to Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311121203	Thank you, President. Zenia Stampe could not be here today, but I should like to say from her and on behalf of the Radical Left that we share the authors' concern about air pollution from wood stoves. We are very shocked that there are 16 000 wood stoves in Copenhagen, because they pollute as much as the traffic in the city. I can add on a personal level that I live in Skanderborg every day, and every time I come to Copenhagen, I am puzzled by the pollution that is in the city. However, in any case, the Radical Left supports a number of measures relating to this problem. We support the government's bill, which will enter into force on 1 August, on the phasing out of old wood-burning furnaces at the time of change of ownership, and we also support the municipalities' desire to create banning zones for wood-burning furnaces. We in the Radical Left are also very ready to see whether it can be made more economically reasonable to demand filters, and the Radical Left itself has also proposed a stove levy in the large cities. The reason why, unfortunately, we cannot support the resolution is our concern that there are parts of the country where there are no alternatives to wood stoves. So, unfortunately, the Radical Left cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311121411	Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311121415	Thank you. I would like to hear a little more about the stove levy if the rapporteur is able to elaborate on it, and if not, it is also quite okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311121425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311121426	Thank you very much for that question. This is, of course, an idea which the Radical Left has put a little bit into, and we are considering how we can link up such a stove levy. It must be directed directly at the large cities, where we know that air pollution is very, very bad. For example, here in Copenhagen it takes about 10 years of people's lives with the pollution that is in the city. So something must certainly be done, and it can be both carrot and whip, and a stove levy is certainly something that we in the Radical Left would really like to bring to the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311121523	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311121555	In the Enhedslisten, we think that particulate pollution is a serious problem and we think it is quite reasonable to deal with a resolution which concerns looking at whether the government should be required to investigate what options and models there are in order to impose a total ban on the use of wood stoves. We think it is quite fine that we look at what sort of instruments might be available. The Enhedslisten does not support that it should be a total ban in 2025. Where we think we should start is in those areas where we have district heating and where it does not make sense that there should be kilns at the same time. Why should there be 16,000 wood stoves in the City of Copenhagen? We are well aware that we are involved in something that is a substance of conflict. When there are 750,000 wood stoves in Denmark, there are some people who think it is cozy. There's definitely a lot of habits about this, too. If you usually have a stove and think that your heating bill is getting lower by using it, even if you live in a district heating area, then it is probably some habits that are quite incorporated. There are certainly also some people far out in the countryside who have some houses where the wood stove is the most important source of energy, and there are certainly also some people who cannot just afford to replace that energy source with something else. That is also why we are opposed to the objective being pursued, that a total ban should be imposed on wood-burning furnaces as early as 2025. However, we note that there have also been studies in the countryside on what kind of particle contamination it is, and it has been found in those studies that there is in fact also a significant particle contamination in rural areas where it would otherwise be thought that the problem, when there is so far between houses, has been resolved. It's not automatic. And we also have summer cottage areas in Denmark, where there are holiday cottage owners who think it is a problem that in those areas too there is firewood. After all, there are people in Denmark who have asthma and allergies and who are actually very bothered by this particle contamination. So we regard this as a very important problem, and we note that what has previously been adopted in the Danish Parliament, which has to phase out some older wood stoves at the time of change of ownership, is not enough. That is not enough to comply with the NEC directive. We also note that the Minister mostly talks about the particle contamination coming to Denmark, but does not really include the fact that there is also particle pollution that comes to the Swedes with the west wind. So we have an international problem here, where we need to look not only at what comes to Denmark, but also at what we are polluting our neighbour Sweden with. So something more needs to be done, and I hope the Minister will take this home, and also bring the input from council members who want more tools in the toolbox to limit the number of wood stoves in the areas where there is district heating. This is a problem. I find it quite grotesque that as a jyde you spend the night in a popular apartment in Copenhagen, where there is a smart recovery system with air, and that's fine, so there is fresh air in the apartment, and then it happens in the winter that there is a smart hotel right next to it that has been installed some fireplaces to create a good time at the hotel. For then there is about once a month a problem in your apartment, for you can't turn off the smart recovery system of air. There you are then exposed to particle contamination, which is in fact worse than where you come from in a little rural environment. It's grotesque. There I think the municipality should be able to intervene and say stop for those stove ovens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122001	Thank you. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122003	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. The rapporteur says that one could look at banning wood stoves and fireplaces in areas with district heating. In fact, I think I have read, and perhaps also on your website, that you have a motion for a resolution in relation to banning incinerators in areas where there is district heating. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122029	I think it is true that it has been put forward, and we continue to think so. We are also listening to the fact that there are municipal politicians who think that this would be a good tool, because the municipalities have a task of planning the heating supply. This is what has been done by deciding where district heating should be and where the settlement is too scattered to choose a district heating solution. So it must also be a natural consequence of the fact that the municipalities have more scope for action to ensure that the homes connected to district heating cannot also have a wood stove. It is a little different if you have arrived at an exemption from district heating, but I really think that the municipalities should have more tools, and I am sure that there are municipalities like Aarhus, Frederiksberg, Copenhagen that would go further.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122122	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122124	I agree with that. Now the rapporteur says that the air can smell as bad in small towns as it can in Copenhagen. And then there are some places where there are no other heat sources. Would the rapporteur like a subsidy scheme to be set up in order to be able to switch from a wood stove to, for example, a wood stove? heat pump to also help those homes where you only have wood stoves or wood pine as the primary heat source?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122206	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122207	There have been such scrapping schemes in the past, which then ran out. After all, it costs something, and I think that we should always think about how best to spend money on the environment. There I would actually think that it is cheaper to implement some bans rather than to grant subsidies. So we are actually more in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122235	Thank you. There are no more comments. The next one is sir. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122257	Thank you and thank you for the proposal to the Free Greens. In general, I think most of it has been said here from the Parliament's platform. The Minister's presentation must say that we broadly agree with the conservatives. We thought it was balanced. Then I have a few comments, but I will start with a personal story. I had a wood stove at home, and we used it in the winter when it got really cold, because the heating system we had couldn't carry to heat houses up alone. So there we had a wood stove that could also heat when it got really cold. We've shut it down because it was old and dirty, and now we're using electricity instead. But we actually miss being able to put a piece of wood in the wood stove and enjoy the flames and the sight of it, for it is quite deep within us as human beings, and it is a thousand-year-old tradition to look into the flames of fire and enjoy it and enjoy the feeling you get when you look into the flames. I think we should respect that; we need it in our ordinary lives too. So that's why the thing about abolishing the wood-burning furnaces isn't exactly the water on our mill here. The problem is not the wood-burning furnaces; the problem is the particle contamination that comes with the wood-burning furnaces. There we are immediately more willing to go in and look at how we can regulate it. We were also in favour of and voted in favour of the proposal we adopted here in December for an injunction. But on the basis of what we're told isn't our cup of tea. We would rather go the incentive path and the motivation path. And we also need to look at the proportions here and what the effect will be of the actions we are doing. As was said by the Minister for the Environment, 75% will come. of the particulate pollution from the outside. And that means that even a total ban will not solve the problem for us. But it is not the same as not doing anything, and we are also looking at what kind of problem we have. And, as has also been said before, we have advocated that we could promote filter solutions as an opportunity to reduce particulate pollution. So we would rather go the path of incentive and motivation than the path of prohibition. With these words, we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122547	Thank you. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122549	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I can fully recognize the pleasure of sitting and looking into a crackling fireplace, but there are always the advantages and disadvantages of some things. And the question is, does the advantage of being allowed to sit and look into that crackling fireplace outweigh the 550 premature deaths we have every year? That is one question. The second is: could it be imagined that bee-fire could be an alternative if you are not allowed to have fireplaces and wood-burning furnaces?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122624	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122625	I don't know what a bee-eagle is, so I'm gonna need you to elaborate on that afterwards. But you are talking about proportions, that there must be proportions between one and the other, and we fully agree with that. We do not think that a ban is proportional to the challenge here, and the deaths we are talking about here are, after all, the total number of deaths caused by a number of factors and not just particulate pollution from fireplaces. I recognise that fireplaces pose a problem, but they do not cause 4 000 deaths in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122657	Thank you. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122659	Aarhus University estimates that the 550 premature deaths a year are directly due to fireplaces and wood stoves. However, I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur is more interested in developing a filter solution. Does the Conservative People's Party have any concrete proposals on how to get these filter solutions put into effect, so that we can proceed quickly? There are people who suffer from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122732	In fact, we also discussed here in connection with the last legislative proposal in December whether filter solutions were an option. At that time, the Ministry did not consider that the current technological possibilities required it to be written into the bill. But there is, of course, technological development and we would like to support technological development. The way I heard it from the Ministry last time we discussed it, we weren't ready. I am pleased to hear that there are attempts being made to see whether we can find solutions that we can bring into our political decision-making process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122808	Thank you. There are no more comments. I do not see the rapporteurs from the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, so that is why it is Mrs Susanne Zimmer, the rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311122836	It is a bit sad when it goes on with the good words in terms of actually having a long-term strategy on how we can get air pollution, particulate pollution reduced. We have heard a lot of people say that now. And in the Greens, we believe that this is an outdated source of heat that we should not use anymore. The environmental and health consequences are far too severe for it to be justified to maintain its use. Fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces, fireplaces stands for 70%. the pollution of the particles and is straining more than the total Danish car traffic, and the pollution from it is likely to be reduced now, because we have more electric cars, but wood-burning In Copenhagen, the city's 16,000 kilns emit more particles during the firing season than the entire car traffic does in a year. And, of course, it is especially the older models that fill in the accounts, as they emit up to five times as many particles as new wood stoves do. And this has some health consequences. Particle emissions are the most harmful form of air pollution, and combustion furnaces are responsible for 66 per cent. of the particles emitted in Denmark. Air pollution can potentially affect all organs in our body, concludes the Forum of International Respiratory Societies, which is therefore about breathing. The potential widespread destruction is due to the fact that inflammations created by polluting particles can unfold and spread around with the blood to the whole body. It can cause and worsen cardiovascular diseases, cause cancers like bladder cancer, and it can cause liver problems, weak bones and damage the skin. And, of course, fertility, fetuses and children are also affected by that pollution. There are over 70,000 scientific articles that actually show that this pollution affects our health. In addition, there is a study in Sweden from Umeå University which shows that the relationship between particle contamination and the development of dementia is striking. In an area where there is much pollution in the air both outside and indoors, it has been studied that the 50-year-old residents are exposed to a strong influence in relation to dementia development. So it's not just our body, it's also our minds that are being affected. Denmark's Centre for the Environment and Energy at Aarhus University, DCE, has calculated that almost 4,000 Danes die prematurely each year because of air pollution, where the Danish source is estimated to cause 1,000 deaths. That's the thing about the air knowing no boundaries. As has already been said, we must remember that we are getting pollution from other countries, but of course we are also delivering something. DCE also estimates that the 550 annual deaths are due to wood stoves and other wood firing. With environmental and health consequences, there are also economic consequences, and according to DCE, social costs for total air pollution from all sources in Denmark from abroad as well as domestic are estimated at 29 billion. kr. in 2013. In Denmark alone, the emissions of wood stoves lead to an increase in social costs of 4.2 billion. kr. a year. That's 14 percent. of the total health costs associated with air pollution. So we are dealing with money in relation to also making carrot measures if we cannot reach a ban. We have alternatives. There was a time when wood-burning furnaces were the primary and most important source of heat in Denmark, and in this situation this would have had major consequences, but now it is so that out of the 700,000 wood-burning furnaces we have in Denmark, it is only 15%. of those that are the primary heat source. And we have plenty of alternative sources of heat that are more efficient and more environmentally friendly and that can replace the stoves. If you like wood-burning stoves for fun, you can replace them with bee-eagle. We also have some international obligations. We must achieve the objective of the NEC directive, which deals with the emission ceiling before 2030, and the aim is to reduce emissions by 55%. in 2030, and a projection shows that we only reach 42 per cent. So we really need action, including from that perspective. Last year, a proposal was made for the replacement of wood-burning furnaces from before 2003 at the time of change of ownership. It was voted through and is now so small to come into force here six months later. But it is simply too unambitious, so the Free Greens did not vote for it, because we will not be helping to stamp out a policy that is flawed. Many measures have been proposed and implemented over the years to support this proposal. There have already been and are already scrapping schemes for old wood stoves, which can be expanded. There is a proposal from the City of Copenhagen for a ban on new wood stoves, actually put forward by socialist Frank Jensen. SF and Enhedslisten suggested back in 2019 that stoves should be banned in homes where there is district heating. An ambitious and long-term plan is needed to deal with our air pollution, and this step is a step in the right direction. Because we need a level of ambition that ensures that we can save the lives of these people. And it is not just death; it is also in relation to all the disease that is before, and, incidentally, also the misfortune that is about to live in an area where you must daily be drawn with stove air. There are far more benefits to this proposal than there are costs. And with this proposal, we'd like to have a look at how we can also make this differentiated, in terms of whether it's in town or in the countryside, in order to get rid of all the kilns by 2025. With this motion for a resolution and its comments, I should like to commend the proposal for the favourable treatment of the High Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123532	Thank you. There are brief comments. Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123535	Now I noted that Mrs Susanne Zimmer said that she voted against the proposal that has previously been in which we went in and restricted and replaced the oldest wood stoves because it was not ambitious enough. So I would like to test where the border is for Mrs Susanne Zimmer. And that was really sir. Egil Hulgaard, who gave me the inspiration for this when there is burning of wood, in this case in the wood stoves, that it can also have a cozy dimension, and that it is a tradition for many. What about, for example, the fire of St. Peter's? It is also a burning; it has no purpose other than that it is a tradition that you have and that it creates some fun. But that also gives rise to particle contamination. What about scout camps, for example? I have a family of my own that's been scouting for a long time. Is that supposed to be stopped? Because it also has a dimension of cozy and of some tradition, but it has no other purpose, and it also causes particulate pollution. So where's the limit for Mrs. Susanne Zimmer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123636	Thank you. And thank you for the question. Now there's a lot of difference between whether you burn off every day or whether you do it once a year at a Sankthan fire, or whether you do it at a Scout camp. So the border does not go where it should be banned. It may be that in the long term one becomes so aware of how large a particle release is at it, and then it may be that it comes. But at this stage it is not the position of the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123701	Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123702	I understand that Sankthans is only once a year, but there is, after all, quite a lot of Sankthansfire that night, so perhaps there could also be a concentration. Going to scouts may be done once a week. Then there's a limit, that is to say, if you turn on your wood stove once a week, and then it's okay, but if you do it twice a week, it's not okay? You want me to understand that it's something about how often you use your wood stove? 'Cause I understand it's okay to have a scout fire once a week, but it's not okay to light up in your stove once a day, so I guess there's gotta be some limit in between, and where is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123733	Well, this is where this proposal is easy to handle, because we don't have to have wood stoves and fireplaces. Because if we are going to differentiate between once a week and every day, we are in a bureaucratic system. And I also believe that it is very rare that you only fire up once a week.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123755	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123759	Thank you. I have a question here on top of the speech, because I thought it was a little different from what I read in the resolution, which is a desire for a study on a total ban by 2025, while I now heard Mrs Susanne Zimmer talking about that there are differences and that it should not be implemented in the same way throughout the country, etc. So is it a total ban by 2025 that the rapporteur wants, or is it really just that we are taking some further steps, in terms of how we can work with filters, and how we can look at zones etc., for which several people have been on the platform and spoke in favour? So where is this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123841	Thank you for the question and for the opportunity to clarify this. When I say that differentiated considerations can be taken into account, there is the fact that there are some methods that can be used in some places in order to obtain a total ban and other methods that can be used elsewhere. So it is really about how the methods of achieving the goal can be different. At the same time, I can tell you that this is not going to get through the Danish Parliament, so if we could agree on a report text which makes us a good step in the right direction in the committee's work, then I would like to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123920	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123922	But I guess the method is a ban, as I read it. With the proposal we are discussing now, the way to put this into practice is a ban that is nationwide. However, I look forward very much to a committee reading which opens up the way for us to look at how we really do something about concrete challenges and not just go the way of bans.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311123946	That is absolutely correct. The method is a ban, but as part of that method it might well be possible to provide a subsidy for the establishment of heat pumps in some places, and there could also be other options. But you can see how you can help this thing get started so we don't leave anyone on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311124005	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311124009	Thank you. It's a little bit of a follow-up on Mr. Knox. Jacob Jensen's question. It's very interesting to hear how to use that strong green mandate. If a citizen, it could be myself, has a wood stove that is only used for fun, it must be forbidden to use it, even if, as I might do, you are not allowed to use it. spends half a to a whole room a year on it. If I go down to the beach and gather 8,000 people around a fire and put 15 houses of fire into the fire and light fire to it, then the rapporteur believes that you can do this at once with 8,000 people, but in a rural area where there may be 5-6 remembers next to each other, you should not fire a little wood every day. Is that how you're supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311124050	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311124051	This proposal goes to wood stoves and fireplaces, and that is what is important, because it is where there is the widespread spread, and that is where it has been possible to measure that particle pollution actually causes people diseases and causes them to die too soon. So that's what I'm dealing with now. I would also like to say that, in relation to the things you do, it is probably possible that at some point we will also look at it, but right now we are looking at wood stoves and fireplaces.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311124122	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311124124	So that means that the Free Greens are not opposed to the fact that it should be forbidden to have a santhan fire, the Free Greens are not opposed to the fact that it should be forbidden to make a fire when, for example, you go to a scout. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311124140	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311124141	Free Greens have absolutely no idea of banning it at this stage. So we stick to wood stoves and not the other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311124152	Thank you. As no one else has wished to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311124209	The debate is open. It's sir. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311124225	Thank you for that, President. The draft law we are discussing here today updates the current fisheries legislation in a wide range of areas. Overall, there are five main elements. I would like to make a few comments on a few of these elements. Firstly, the draft law updates the requirement for Danish fishing by registering as a professional fisherman. I understand that this has caused concern in parts of the industry as to whether it means that foreign fishermen will have easier access to fishing rights and quotas in Denmark. It is not the intention to give foreign fishermen easier access to Danish fishing rights and, as I understand it, it is the updating of the rules on the attachment requirement to bring the fishing law into line with EU law. Danish fishing is a key industry and is of great importance. It contributes to the creation of jobs, the economy, and also to local communities. We have to protect that. That is why we ensure by the bill that it is fishermen with a real link to Danish fishing who live on fishing in Denmark who can register and therefore register as professional fishermen. This is done by requiring 60%. of revenue during the preceding 24 months shall be derived from personal work on a fishing vessel. In fact, it is a tightening up which ensures a real link with Danish fishing, because where it can now be achieved on the basis of 12 months' work in the fisheries sector, this is extended to 24 months. At the same time, it introduces requirements for personal work on fishing vessels and for fishing vessels to be associated with a Danish fishing port. Secondly, it is also proposed to strengthen the possibility of control at sea. The proposal allows fisheries control to call vessels to a designated location at sea. However, it has to be said that the control is of course trying to make it as geline and painless as possible for those who are now being affected by the control. This is very good, because it offers better opportunities for fisheries control, to arrive at and check, for example, vessels with regard to catch reporting in the context of changes in waters, to be able to control them. At the same time, it can operate smoothly as it allows for the fishing vessel's planned route to be taken into account. Thirdly, the draft law also involves action against the ghost networks. In the social democracy we are concerned with fighting the ghost net and lost tools, as they represent a serious problem for our nature and marine environment. The lost nets, nets, and roses lie on the bottom of the sea or get stuck on wrecks or rocks and secrete microplastics in the sea. The European Commission estimates 27 per cent. of the plastic waste found in EU waters comes from lost fishing nets. At the same time, it is a problem for marine wildlife because fish, birds, shellfish and marine mammals can get stuck in the ghost net. Professional fishermen are already obliged to salvage or report lost fishing nets and fishing gear to the Danish Fisheries Authority, but both professional and recreational fishermen fish with nets, and therefore it makes sense that this bill also obliges recreational fishermen to salvage their lost nets and, if this is not possible, to report the loss to the Danish Fisheries Authority. Last but not least, the legislative proposal also contains amendments which simplify the rules for secondary fishing and ease administrative burdens and digital communication, ensuring effective control through digital reporting of quota shares. I do not want to delve into that subject any further, but I would just like to point out that it makes sense to simplify, as, for example, the current rules for secondary fishermen were unnecessarily complicated. With those comments, of course, I can only say that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311124623	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311124643	Thank you for the floor. The fact that we are discussing this bill on a day when the wind is really fresh over the waters of Limfjord and raging outside Christiansborg's thick walls is actually a very good picture of the situation of Danish fishing at the moment. A brexit has hit Danish fishing very hard; the expectation is that it is over 1 billion. kr. In the case of lost quotas, it will have as a consequence. At the moment, there is also no access for Danish fishermen to Norwegian waters, and the agreement on quotas concluded with effect from 1 January only covers the first months of the year, and then fishermen are in an unresolved situation. So there is enough storm, not only outside Christiansborg, but certainly also over Danish fishing at the moment. And the view to end up in muddy waters and good weather isn't just around the corner. So, of course, it would be very good if we could then here today have a lot of great news for Danish fishing. The draft law amending the fishing law probably does not bring about any major changes in the weather situation for Danish fishing. There is no prospect of storms, nor of all problems disappearing like dew to the sun. These are a number of minor adjustments that arise from the work of the National Audit Office and control of the entire fisheries area, and other things are in a position to update in order to ensure that the rules remain within the scope of EU law, and both are quite reasonable, that is to say, that the rules are in place and that there is clarity about the rules. In terms of content, the changes are probably relatively limited. In relation to the change in the attachment requirement, which was also mentioned by the Socialist rapporteur, it is a question of • and I think we all have a very, very strong wish that the Danish quotas as a starting point should be reserved for Danish fishermen, and that is why there must be some safeguards about what it takes to have access to the Danish quotas. The regulatory framework will be updated to comply with EU law. And if you read the consultation answers, you can then consider whether the safeguard measures are good enough or whether there are opportunities to make them even stronger. I think that is something we should look at in committee. I think our political desire is relatively similar here in the Folketing about it. So let's give it a service and see if we can do more about it. It also has some consequences in relation to whether fishermen from other countries can have access to an even larger quantity of fish than we give Danish fishermen the opportunity to do so. Another element of adjustments is to get some more clarity about the income requirement that you make of being an A-fisher. There has been some confusion about how to actually balance fishermen's income, and it is always sensible to have clear rules to administer. The same applies to the proposal to simplify the rules for by-business fishing, where today it is a percentage of income, and instead of having to adjust for whether there is a slight change in the income ratio of a folk pensionist, for example, it is therefore difficult to sit and look at percentages. And the government is setting out to make some, in my optics, reasonable limits of 5,000 kroner. and 2,000 kroner. It's a little easier to manage. Of course, I also welcome the fact that there will be a reporting obligation for lost gear also for recreational fishermen, because I believe that the damage caused by a lost fishing gear is independent of whether it is a professional fisherman or a recreational fisherman. There is enough difference in size, but the potential damage from leaving a fishing gear is independent of who left it. There is also an adjustment on the point of control at sea, but the Socialist rapporteur has also been about this. So, overall, these are quite sensible adjustments which we can, of course, support from the Left. There are even small positive consequences in relation to the administrative burden, and I have to say that I think this is the first time since the elections almost two years ago that I have the opportunity to commend the government for doing so. But when that happens, you have to sign for it too. These are completely new tones from the government, and I hope it spreads to many other areas that would be beneficial to the Danish economy. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that I welcome the draft law. It makes sense that it does not remove the momental salvor for Danish fishing, but vice versa it does not make the situation any worse, in fact a little better, and that is why we in the Left support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311125204	Thank you. There are no comments. We move on to Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311125225	Thank you for that, President. Then we have a proposal for a law amending the Law on Fisheries. The rapporteurs before me have been very well acquainted with the individual elements that are and, as was also said by the Left, some sensible adjustments are being proposed here. There are some things I would like to mention. Among other things: If there is another authority, it is almost always under changing governments that there are always some powers, because it is much easier when you can be over in the ministries and you don't have to come over here and ask the Folketing, and it is the elected representatives who sit over here; the ministers do not have to be elected and that is a bit annoying. But it has to be said that, in relation to the ghost networks, just the authority here, where you can now go in to focus more on the fact that these recreational fishermen and the recreational fisheries will also be part of it, I hope the Minister will then take advantage of it. That is the authority given to the Minister when you say yes to this proposal that you want to measure it as well. After all, we have seen in some places that voluntary organisations have actually been out in our near waters to make some clean-ups, and there are not the large industrial networks that are being found. There it is these eel-rushes and other smaller nets that you find, and there you just have to remember that such an eel-rush that stays out in the water keeps catching fish until there can be no more in it. The fish can't get out again, and so they die. So I hope that the authority given to the Minister, and we will also vote in favour of it, even though we think it is annoying with powers, will be used by the Minister. As the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, there is one thing that we would also like to ask about. We do not see this as a point of conflict. It is in relation to the consultation answers, also from the Danish Fisheries Association, about this with foreign buying of quotas. When you look at the background material, you can see that the Minister and the Ministry have actually tried to answer it sensibly, I think, but it may still be necessary for us to get it in a bit more than what has been proposed. I am sure that we can find out in committee and in good cooperation with the Minister and the Ministry. So, if we get the small things corrected and the minister will also use his authority I will of course ask if the minister will; I am sure the minister will do so then I am sure that the Danish People's Party will also be able to vote in favour of this bill when it comes to the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311125447	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311125511	Thank you. It is, of course, a good set of measures that are contained in this proposal. Now there have been three rapporteurs looking at the various elements, so I shall confine myself to the elements that I think are important to address. And, like the previous rapporteur, I think that it is important to use the opportunities that come with this, particularly with regard to ghost networks, and I would really like to hear the Minister's comment on that. Because that is something we must act on. Everywhere, including in relation to recreational fishermen, we need to do much more with regard to producer responsibility and we need to do more with regard to business fishermen. We have to keep looking at how we're going through a lot about these ghost networks, and there's this whole thing about registering where you've lost and when you've lost something, the really important thing. Then we are also pleased with the control options that lie in this and which would be good to get in, of course also in relation to digital communication, and all in all we can support the legislative proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311125620	Thank you. Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311125640	Thank you for the floor, President. Radical Left welcomes the bill. It contains various elements. What I would like to highlight is the implementation of EU law, so that there will be a uniform approach, uniform rules, for Danish citizens and EEA citizens in relation to the right to be registered as a professional fisherman. There is the common condition now that at least 60%. of their personal income shall be derived from personal work on a fishing vessel. In this context, I should also like to mention that it is not just a question of putting the two groups on an equal footing, but that there is also in that part of the legislative proposal the important part about ensuring that we combat the quota kingsymptom. As agreed in a political agreement in 2017, there is an effort against quota concentration in Danish fisheries, and the efforts of the Radical Left will at least ensure that the work of the committee is maintained, also in relation to the implementation of the rules here from the European Union. The next thing that the Radical Left finds very interesting is about the ghost net, and we think it is very good that the report that should be around the ghost net should also be extended to recreational fishermen. However, in the context of the work of the committee, the Radical Left will also call for the cadence to be set up in connection with the ghost network and for any further action to be taken. All in all, the Radical Left looks forward to the work of the committee and supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311125913	Thank you. There are no comments, so that's why the next sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311125940	Thank you. We support these relatively small adjustments to the Fisheries Act from the Enhedslisten side, and we think it is very good that it has also been observed that the ghost network of secondary fishermen should now also be reported and included in the bill. So Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311130001	Thank you to the rapporteur. It was over fast. Now we'll have to see if Mr. Per Larsen, rapporteur for Conservatives, does so just as quickly. We welcome Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311130025	Thank you for that, President. As several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, fishing is in a rather uncertain and difficult situation at the moment. Brexit has been mentioned, there is also a problem with Norwegian waters, and then the whole regulation calls for a debureaucratisation. The reason why I mention this is a little because we also have a problem of generational change in that it is not always quite easy to attract young, new fishermen to the industry. So there are some things there that you need to be aware of. In this adjustment there are small improvements at the administrative level, for example the possibility of being able to regulate the by-business fishermen, so they have to land for 5,000 DKK. And for $2,000 if you're a pensioner. I think it's quite easy to manage, so it's really fine. There is also a control measure in relation to positions at sea, and this is, of course, linked to the issue of Dutch and other fishermen, where it may be difficult to exercise control when they change waters and so on. So it is quite positive, and of course we support it. Then there are also some attention points in relation to the work effort and income in the last 24 months. After all, there are some of the fishermen who may well have other income associated with the maritime industry. There may be, for example: be some who may have activities by a dock, or there may be some other things. That is why it is essential to make sure that it is taken into account when it comes to regulating work. Then there is also a focus on this here related to Danish fishing ports, in terms of how it can be ensured. For there is a little important that just one requirement out of the requirements of e.g. landing in Denmark, fishing trips from Denmark or permanent establishment in Denmark can be fulfilled. Then there's something in relation to the landings. After all, things are changing significantly in the case of brexit, and it may well make it more difficult to get a proper price for your fish, depending on where you land them. This may give some other catch patterns, and it may result in some very long journeys if it is the case that you have to land your fish. We have examples of the fact that there is virtually a monopoly on receiving fish in Denmark. If there is only one buyer of a particular species of fish, he may be able to determine the price himself and that is not very appropriate. So there we think, at least on the conservative side, that we should look at those species which are perhaps quite difficult to sell in Denmark, so that no one can be felled on that basis. At any rate, I have checked with the industry and obtained a list of a number of species, but we can take that in committee. It is a little important that fishermen are not forced to give their fish away at the end of the season or at times when there may be no demand from a Danish buyer, and then it may be more appropriate to dispose of the fish elsewhere. But basically we are in favour of the proposal and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311130439	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is ready, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311130454	Thank you. The bill is a proposal for a law amending the Fisheries Act. The proposal contains five main elements. Only active fishermen associated with Danish fishing can be registered as professional fishermen in Denmark and have a share in Danish fishing rights. The rules for secondary commercial fishing shall be simplified. It is authorised to extend existing rules on action against ghost networks to recreational fisheries, to permit digital communication requirements concerning ownership of quota shares and to lay down rules allowing fisheries control to call vessels for control at designated positions at sea. The consultations of the Danish Fisheries Association and the Danish Pelagic Producer Organisation express a number of concerns regarding the draft law, including the fact that fishermen from EU and EEA countries will be more easily able to acquire fishing rights; that these will not be covered by the Danish quota concentration rules; that the new rules may hinder existing practices in Danish fishing; that landing requirements in Danish ports may be inappropriate for certain fisheries, and also a number of other factors. At least most of these points of attention appear to have been taken into account in the adjustment of the draft law. New citizens are immediately in favour of the proposal. However, this is an important law with potentially major consequences for the individual fishermen and businesses, so we will first take a final position on the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311130633	We thank the rapporteur. It doesn't look like there's anyone from the Liberal Alliance. Then there will be no more rapporteurs and we will move on to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311130659	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, and thank you to the rapporteurs for a very positive and helpful first reading. It's nice to experience such great support. Fishing has always been an important industry in Denmark. Many Danish cities still depend on the activity that comes from fishing. Life in the harbor branches to the rest of society and helps keep the wheels running. This bill has two main objectives: firstly, it must be ensured that links with Danish fishing are a prerequisite for fishing on Danish quotas. So we do not want to have large foreign shareholders who come and take over Danish fishing. Secondly, the draft law provides for better control of fishing vessels in Danish waters by allowing fisheries control to call vessels for inspection at sea at a position designated by the fisheries control. Finally, there is also an element of regulatory simplifications and debureaucratisations. I am, of course, pleased that the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, signed for, and I am happy to undertake the task of being a kind of bureaucratization minister in this area too. There I am sure that the Left and Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen will keep me in my ears. But there's probably something to be done about that. The first objective shall be achieved by requiring prior personal performance on a fishing vessel when registering as a professional fisherman. In the proposal it is formulated as a requirement that 60%. of the income for the preceding 24 months shall be from personal work on a fishing vessel. In the context of this, there are also demands for the work to be related to Danish fishing. Access to fishing on Danish quotas depends on the status of professional fishermen, and this requires compliance with the requirement of affiliation. The rules ensure that the Danish fishing resources also contribute in the future to the activity of the Danish fishing industry. The more detailed application of the attachment requirement will have to be made by means of a notice. As a fisherman, you can meet the attachment requirement in three ways: either through fishing organised from a permanent establishment in Denmark or by landing 50 per cent. of the catch in a Danish port, or by 50 per cent. of the fishing trips shall be taken from a Danish port. The rules must be implemented within the framework of Union law. Therefore, Danish citizens and EU citizens will have to meet the same requirements. However, the European Court of Justice has recognised that it is a legitimate consideration that fishing rights should benefit the population in areas which have historically been dependent on fishing. That is what we are pursuing in the application of the attachment requirement. The law introduces so-called control points at sea. It allows fisheries control to call fishing vessels for control at a position defined and designated by the fisheries control. Under current rules, that is to say, as it is today, the fisheries control must go to the fishing vessel to be checked. It therefore limits the effectiveness of controls and can present challenges in the implementation of controls far from land and especially in harsh weather. It is also a challenge to check the vessel's catch reporting in Danish waters if they have subsequently migrated to another waters. The introduction of control points at sea is considered to be an effective tool for fisheries control. In addition, in the context of amending the law, we propose simplifications to facilitate both the documentation tasks of fishermen and the management and control of fisheries control, i.e. the simplification and debureaucratisation of rules, and that is something that has long been demanded. It provides for a simplification of the rules applicable to secondary fishermen. The applicable requirement is that at least 5%. the income of secondary fishermen shall be derived from fishing activities. It is now replaced by a claim for an annual landing worth at least DKK 5,000. and 2,000 kroner. for pensioners. In this way, the fisheries control alone will have to deal with information on the landing of fish and not the fishermen's other income. Similarly, secondary fishermen can only inform fisheries control of their fishing activities. In addition, in connection with the introduction of B quotas based on economic differences between fishermen, we are calling for digital reporting to the Danish Fisheries Authority. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that the proposal extends the existing rules on the reporting of so-called ghost nets to recreational fishermen. The fight against the ghost network is something that is really, very much, and I am happy with the focus on this in the Chamber, and I want you to know that as a minister it is a task on which I am very focused, and I would like to make a great deal of this particular task. When implementing the rules, recreational fishermen, like professional fishermen, will have to notify the Danish Fisheries Authority within 24 hours of the loss of gear, e.g.: yarn, rushes, etc., The aim is better to be able to organize action against stray nets which cause damage to, among others, the environment. marine mammals. In these words, I look forward to a favourable committee dealing with the draft law, and I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place so far and also for the kind comments that have been made. But, of course, I'm open to questions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311131231	Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has been asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311131256	The debate is open. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311131313	Thank you, President. We are facing a conversion of the vehicle fleet's propellants, and in the years to come we will have to move from fossil fuels to more renewable sources of energy, for example. el. A car is often a big monthly printing for a family economy, and I think we are all being asked by citizens whether it is worth changing to an electric car. Many are uncertain whether it is at the next change of car that you should take the jump from gasoline or diesel to an electric car. More information and more transparency are needed for future car buyers, and this legislative proposal must, in concrete terms, help to ensure more transparency in the price of propellants. In fact, the draft law must establish the necessary legal basis to ensure the correct implementation of Article 7 (1) of the AFI Directive. 3 on the display of a price comparison sign at service stations, and the price comparison sign shows average prices of fossil fuels and alternative propellants per year. 100 km for selected car segments. The price comparison sign will thus allow Danes to evaluate the price ratio between fossil fuels and alternative propellants, for example the price ratio between an electric car and a petrol car, where electricity can in more cases be a cheaper propellant than fossil fuel. That is why the draft law that we are dealing with here also contains an authorisation to lay down rules on the implementation of EU rules on user information, which include rules on the publication of price comparison signs and requirements on the transmission of data for the purposes of the calculations behind price comparison signs. At the same time, it is proposed that operators of publicly available charging stations should put a small sign on the charging stations referring to a website with price information for propellants. The aim of this is to ensure transparency and a easily comparable price information for electricity as a propellant. The draft law also provides that the rules which can be laid down on user information should apply not only to future infrastructure for the transmission of propellants, but also to the infrastructure for the transmission of propellants already established in the country. The draft law will also provide for the possibility of establishing rules on the right of appeal, including the right of appeal to be cut off. All in all, this is a positive step which contributes to information and transparency for consumers in relation to vehicle propellants. That's one of the things I'm talking about. need to ensure that more people switch from fossil propellant to e.g. a electric car, and that is why the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311131557	I just need to make sure there was a question. There wasn't, because it was a mistake that the button was pressed. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Then we give the floor to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311131623	Thank you for that, President. Like virtually all the other parties here in the Folketing, the Left is very concerned about the transition to greener transport, and in this respect, of course, green propellants play a leading role. It is important that we strengthen comparable information on green fuels, their energy efficiency, prices and so on, which is why this is a very good legislative proposal, which is also an implementation of EU legislation. We are concerned that citizens will have better opportunities to make their choice on an informed and comparable basis, that may well be a bit of a jungle, about the new non-fossil propellants, and that is why this is in every way a good proposal. The left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311131716	We thank the rapporteur. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. The danger of this is that our wives will find out that we can clean up! But thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311131745	Thank you. Despite the fact that this is a bill of authorization, there may still be a reason to support it. It is therefore the case that when we look at these powers for the minister in office at all times, we always look at the content of what is being presented to the Folketing once more. Because we are not really interested in the fact that there is too much authority in relation to some things which may be of vital importance to some minister who is a minister today, or is it in five years or ten years' time for that matter. In this specific case, this is an authorisation that applies to setting out these frameworks and rules in relation to operators who, on the forward-looking track, have to sell energy types to Danish drivers, energy types that change, and where alternative fuels will transform the whole area with lightning speed and mean that we will get less of typical oil and diesel sales and petrol sales and something like that, and that there will then be more electric and hybrid cars and what we will now get from different car models and types, and that is quite reasonable. In the specific draft law it is precisely the design with the publicly available petrol stations where the minister gets an authorisation, and in the Danish People's Party we actually think that some of this will change enormously. It is not the case that the minister gets a change of competence, but the digital solutions offered to road users, we in the Danish People's Party also believe will change before we get a million-large crowd of, for example. electric cars and hydrogen cars in Denmark. It will therefore be the case that when you drive it, so typically you will be able to tell yourself which petrol stations are nearby and what prices they have and how you can compare the prices that they have, so you will not, like today, drive around Sønderbrogade and look at three different petrol stations' light signs, but that you will actually be able to look at your own car and then find out that you will have to tank down at Uno X, because it is they who have the cheapest today. That was a thoughtful example. But these are the conditions, and I believe that this is also the reality that will come before we get to where each minister is going to sit and make these great words about how to organize these things. In fact, we believe that digitally you will be overtaken both inside and outside, and that it will be much easier for drivers to navigate around these price systems. But, as I said, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311132039	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311132105	Thank you. This bill is partly an implementation of the AFI directive and partly some small individual extra powers for the Minister of Transport, and overall SF can support it here. Because it's really nice to have some increased user information, and we also hear that in the industry you support it warmly. However, there are also some concerns in the consultation answers that I have delved a little into and that I hope the Minister of Transport will deal with. On the one hand, there is a slight disagreement as to whether these unit prices or, at least, list prices, after which unit prices can then be calculated, are already available and whether it would be a little too much administrative cost, or at least an unnecessary cost, to impose on the companies which have to conform to this, and I shall not be able to say whether that is true. There are some who believe that it may be possible to make it an automation so that they do not have to report it themselves and like trouble with the administrative about it. There are also some who believe that this is already in the Competition Authority and that there is no reason why they should provide the information again, and I would just like to ask the Minister of Transport to check once more before he embarks on this, and I think he should do so too. It was just to make a brief comment on it. Then we can see that there is a little interest in what solutions you choose when you have to tell us about these prices, i.e. whether it should be such ordinary old-fashioned signs that need to be replaced or whether it should be stickers with a QR code or what it should be. There I can also see that there is a proposal from the Danish Elbil Alliance asking if you could connect this to their existing apps, so it is not the case that their consumers who are used to using their apps also need to access some completely different apps to check prices or access some other websites to check prices. And at the same time, there is also the obvious advantage of making it digital that you don't have to change a lot of signs all the time. So we think that's worth looking at. But overall, I think it's really fine. The only thing that I would like to be so concerned about is this small note on the powers of the Minister of Transport to determine the right of appeal, and we will have to delve a little into that in committee. It is clear that access to complaints must be proper, regardless of which players are then spoken for in this market, and we will be interested in that. And if the Minister of Transport can put a few words on it later, that would be great. But otherwise the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311132407	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311132428	Thank you. The Radical Left, of course, supports this proposal. We think it is a good thing that, as an ordinary motorist using petrol, you can get information about what it would actually cost if you used a greener propellant. Fortunately, electric cars have a competitive advantage when it comes to the pure price per car. drove miles, and it will now be made clear to everyone, and we hope that we can help to push people into some other propellants. So we strongly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311132456	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311132517	The legislative proposal we are now considering must make it easier for consumers to see through the prices of fossil fuels and alternative fuels. We in the Enhedslist are in favour of this, and we see it as absolutely necessary to show the great advantage which, among other things, is there. is about to choose an electric car, namely that the current is a much cheaper propellant. Having said that, there are, of course, also challenges hidden in the bill, which among other things. The Danish Elbil Alliance also points out how to calculate the price per year. 100 km, when a large proportion of customers use flatrate subscription solutions? As the consultation note shows, this is an issue which the Ministry of Transport is aware of, and it is suggested that the price for publicly available charging stations is based on the price without a subscription. Here, the benefits of a subscription will not be seen in terms of being able to give a complete picture. Basically, electric cars have a significant advantage over black cars when we look at the total cost. I am, of course, aware that the cost of propellants is only part of the total cost of owning an electric car, and therefore it is also important that work be done in the future to increase information on the benefits of choosing the green option in general. Against this background, Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311132642	We would like to thank the rapporteur, and then we would like to turn to Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, Conservative, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311132658	Thank you. On behalf of our rapporteur, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, announces the Conservative People's Party's position on Bill No. 167. The bill empowers the Minister of Transport to implement parts of the AFI Directive on the establishment of alternative fuel infrastructure in Danish legislation by way of a decree. This also means that at petrol stations, the price of 100 kilometres of fuel and propellants must be marked. From the point of view of general consumer information, it is important that the indication of price comparison signs should not mislead or confuse, and this must, of course, be transparent for consumers. We look forward to thorough committee work, and I think that Mrs Valentina Berthelsen, in particular, from the SF, asked some interesting and relevant questions which we will also look forward to seeing the answers to. With those words, the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311132802	We thank the rapporteur. It doesn't look like New Citizens are here. No, they're not. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311132817	Thank you. It's a weird bill, I think. It comes partly from Brussels, which is why we in Denmark are obliged to implement parts of it, because we are now a member of the European Union, and we must continue to do so. But I find it hard to understand the idea that when you have a good product, in this case, you can drive a long distance of 1 kWh in an electric car, then it is the duty of all sorts of others to disclose it, and you have to lay down in the legislation where it should be disclosed. Netto can find out that it is cheaper to shop in Netto than in SuperBrugsen, and Wakeup Copenhagen or CABINN Hotel can find out that it is cheaper to sleep with them than at Marriott. Then you want to drive this information to people with political decisions, but I do not think that what is going to hit something is the political decisions we are making here about this. What is going to happen is that those who sell the product want to inform consumers that it is a good product at a good price. That is why it seems a bit like something we often see: there is a development going on, and the politicians would also like to say that they are doing something in this context too. Sometimes the European Union is also looking for areas where one can make oneself relevant to the citizens, and then it is our job here in the Folketing to bring it further into the legislation. We're somewhat skeptical about this. So the starting point is that we're skeptical about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311133019	We thank the rapporteur. That brings us to the end of the rapporteur's line, and we shall move on to the Minister for Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311133039	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments, and then I should like to start with Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen, who in fact very well puts into words what it really is that bats in terms of getting people to drive green cars. It is true that this proposal will not be the decisive difference there. I completely agree with that. And there is no doubt that some of what will seriously battling and will be able to support those who, like Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has already chosen to drive electric, drive green, and those who haven't chosen to do so yet, among other things. is that we ensure that there is sufficient access to charge, in other words sufficient charging points in the charging infrastructure, so there are enough superchargers along our state roads. It's gonna be some of what we're definitely gonna dive into this spring, among other things. also because we have just received the Eldrupkommission's recommendations. In a short time, the Commission will also make itself available to both the Committee on Transport and the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply in relation to a hearing, so that everyone is also well dressed in relation to it. So with regard to the important work and what has already been done in relation to charges on electric cars, it is true that this is a small detail. The background is, of course, Article 7 of the AFI Directive. 3, to increase consumer awareness of alternative propellants and to make propellant prices on the Danish market more transparent. It must then be said that there is now also a need to make prices more transparent and, moreover, to ensure that we also return to this spring that it is easily accessible to roam across the providers that are. The provision requires consumer information on the prices of propellants in service stations to be set up. It is intended that user information can also support a development in which more Danes choose to buy low- and zero-emission cars rather than cars using fossil fuels. User information at service stations can thus, in the longer term, help to promote the development of the market for alternative fuels, minimise dependence on fossil fuels and thereby reduce the environmental and climate effects of transport. With the bill, we would also like to support transparent and easily comparable price information on electricity as a propellant, and we can achieve this by requiring operators of publicly available charging stations to put a small sign on the charging stations. I should just like to say that there were some excellent questions from Mrs Valentina Berthelsen along the way, among others. the question of unit prices etc., and it is clear that this is, of course, primarily a question of implementing a European directive, but it is also clear that the sign to be made must be made in such a way that it will certainly not mislead consumers. That is why we must also ensure that these price comparisons are not used to evaluate the total cost of own car. In other words, this must be understandable, and it must also be the case that, as far as possible, we also make it administratively simple to work with. Then there was also the question of the right of appeal, which was also mentioned by Mrs Valentina Berthelsen. It is clear that the draft law makes it possible to lay down rules on the right of appeal against decisions taken under the law. But it is not the case that the proposed provisions provide for the possibility of revaluation to be removed. The observations made by the Act suggest that it may be appropriate to cut off the right of appeal, since most of the decisions which could be taken will be of a technical nature and will therefore require considerable technical knowledge in this field. The Ministry of Transport does not have the technical insight. If the right to recur is cut off by means of an order, the principle of judicial review continues to apply and there will therefore continue to be an obligation to resume proceedings if a party has new relevant information or if the case has not been sufficiently disclosed. The proposed provisions on the right of appeal do not restrict the general judicial review of administrative decisions under Article 63 of the Constitution, but we can of course come back to that in committee. I would like to conclude by thanking you for the good and constructive debate and looking forward to further consideration, including answering any questions that may come from the Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311133557	There is a question from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311133601	Thank you, sir. President. It is, in fact, just a brief supplementary question in relation to the situation that already exists today. After all, the Minister himself mentions that it is to ensure that there is such an obligation to provide information to the public, of course to consumers. But we already know that there are private companies that use electricity as a competitive parameter to get customers in the store. We have recently seen Lidl Supermarkets, which offer free charging while shopping, and if it's like Fact, where you have to stay 5 minutes longer, then it may be that they stay a little longer in Lidl and buy a little more. So some might see an advantage in competing for the supply of free electricity from some consumer point of view. I would just like to ask whether it is something that the Minister considers will also be presented in the same way in a given city, where you know that there is free electricity over at Lidl if you go in and shop, but that you have to give x number of crowns and ear for it, for example. Over at a gas station.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311133708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311133709	I think I might just need to understand the question. I do not know if the President will allow that. Is the question whether to force those who offer free charging to also sign?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311133727	Will Mr. His Kristian Skibby repeat?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311133730	In fact, I believe that the Minister will be able to answer that without having to ask twice. So I'm just using my second round of questions now. It is simply because there are shops that use it as a competitive parameter to get customers into their shops that have nothing to do with fuel. But when Mr. And Mrs Jensen comes in an electric car and needs a tank, it is also important for them to know that they can tank for free over at Lidl, but that they have to give money for it over at Texaco. And that is just what I am asking: will the Minister, in the presentation of competition as it stands, and in relation to the Minister's authority, etc. take due account of the fact that it is also being informed about the places where it is free of charge?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311133808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311133809	In fact, I should not be able to say on a stand whether the places in question would be obliged to put up a sign on the charging station. I guess they'd do it all by themselves, where it says: The current here is free of charge. At least I would if it were me who had a place where you wanted people to come and load. But the exact requirements that may be in relation to that, I think we should have dive into practice. I certainly do not think that anyone would be in doubt as to where there might be such a kind of free charge. At least I know it from my own local use, where there has been such an opportunity for over five years. In any case, it is not something that is not mentioned, simply because, as Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby so rightly says that you actually want the customer to stay a little longer and thus act a little longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311133915	I think maybe we should ask Mr. Knox. Hans Kristian Skibby to send an in-depth question to the Minister for a written reply. But Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby has the opportunity to speak in the second round. He doesn't want that. Then we'll thank the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311133941	The debate is open. The first to speak is Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311134002	Thank you, President. I believe that there are a great many Danes who are looking forward to the realization of this great visionary project between Denmark and Germany, and I can reveal to people who are listening today that when we transport rapporteurs talk about this project, it is certainly with a great deal of enthusiasm, because it will increase mobility between Denmark and Germany quite considerably and from the rest of the Nordic countries down towards Europe. So it's a good project. Before the Danish Parliament examined and adopted the Fehmarnbelt Construction and Operation Act in spring 2015, the Ministry of Transport had notified the financing to the European Commission and on 23 July 2015 the Commission took a State aid decision on the financing, and by the decision the Commission approved the financing, but the shipowners Scandlines and Stena Line complained about the approval and referred it to the Court of Justice of the European Union. On 13 December 2018, the General Court annulled the Commission's decision as regards the financing of the coast-to-coastal link. This was mainly justified by the process since the Commission had not initiated a formal investigation procedure in connection with the 2015 authorisation. Such a formal investigation procedure was initiated in June 2019 and in March 2020 the Commission took a new State aid decision. In doing so, the Commission approved the financing of the coast-to-coastal link, but a number of new conditions were laid down for approval. And the legislative proposal we have before us must implement the conditions that the Commission has laid down for its approval and that we cannot simply implement with the legislation in force. The main thrust of the draft law is, firstly, that limits should be placed on the amount and duration of state loans and loans with a State guarantee to Femern A/S. Specifically, Femern A/S must have a maximum state loan and loans with a State guarantee of 69.3 billion. kr. at current prices. Fehmarn A/S must have repaid its debt or settled all State aid in the form of loans with a State guarantee and government re-loans within 16 years of start-up. Secondly, a total commission from Femern A/S is to be charged to a total of 2%. for loans with a State guarantee and for government re-loans. The increased commission shall take effect from 1 January 2019. Thirdly, Femern A/S must pay dividends to A/S Femern Landanlæg only after the state aid has ceased. This means that Femern A/S can distribute dividends at the earliest to A/S Femern Landanlæg from the time that Femern A/S has repaid its debt or otherwise settled the State aid. The bill provides that A/S Femern Landanlæg, the parent company of Femern A/S, which is responsible for the establishment of the public landworks, may on-lend state-guaranteed loans and state loans to Femern A/S. The bill also provides that A/S Femern Landanlæg may charge the commission of 2%. from Fehmarn A/S. A/S Femern Landanlæg will continue to pay the generally applicable commission of 0.15 per cent. The aim is to leave the proceeds of the extra commission in the Femernbelt project to ensure that public land installations can continue to be financed by the coast-to-coastal link. Where the financing was previously provided with Femern A/S dividends, it will now be done with the increased guarantee commission charged by Femern A/S. With all these very, very technical approaches, the Social Democrats can support the proposal so that we can realise the Fehmarn Belt link. And I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radicals, who had to hurry to a committee meeting other than transport, and say that the Radical Left also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311134407	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Welcome to sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311134429	Thank you for that, President. After all, this is one of Denmark's most important infrastructure projects, which will increase cross-border mobility and create a whole new link between Scandinavia and the European Union's continent. The concrete reason for the draft law is, after all, the European Commission's State aid decision of March last year. We need to implement it and adjust it accordingly. My Socialist colleague has explained the technique of that decision very well, so I do not want to tire people with that. However, I would just like to say that, with the amendments we are making with the law here, we are following the European Commission's decision so that there is nothing to come by, if I may say so. Of course, there should not be such projects. It is worth noting that this is, of course, one of the infrastructure projects which has been able to open up the EU's treasury in the area of infrastructure support, and that is, of course, because it is something that matters, not only for Denmark, but for the whole of Europe. On the other hand, of course, we must also comply with the rules of the game laid down by the European Community. Do these changes mean anything to the economy of the project? Is the economy insecure? Not at all. Financing remains robust. Solid reserves have been set aside. We are still away in what we call green area in terms of payback time. And just to make it clear once again because sometimes some people misunderstand it and say that now it is the taxpayer who has to pay this; especially over in Jutland I hear sometimes that it is also the Jutes who are going to pay for this project that they are not going to spend very much on no, it is not the Jutes who are going to pay. It's not the taxpayers either. The users do. Now I'm a jyde myself, and I can't wait to take a trip down the tunnel once it opens, and I'm happy to pay for it. But it's a user. It is not the taxpayers who have to pay, even with these changes. In the Left we are delighted that right now there is very large construction activity down by Rødby on the Danish side. Now something's really going on. We look forward very much to the day in just over 8 years, when the tunnel can be opened to traffic on both road and rail for great benefit to Danish society and to the rest of Europe. The left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311134657	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311134721	Thank you. After all, the legislative proposal we are debating today is necessary and also logical, not least in view of the fact that we have started to set up the project. The spade is in the ground, and we are, you may not be able to say well, but we are doing so much work that 28 Russian employees have been arrested down there who are suspected of failing to comply with Danish health and safety legislation and pay and working conditions in Denmark, etc. It is then being examined. It is such a bad thing, you might say, and it must of course be investigated. So it is perhaps a good thing that, after all, we can also raise the flag in such a positive wind compared to the Fehmarnbelt project, as we are doing here today. Of course, it is not a good thing that it may end up with an average of slightly more expensive funding, with a government commission of 0.15 per cent. Perhaps it would have been better for the repayment time of the project than a State commission of 2%, as the European Commission's State aid decision has already clarified. But that does not change the fact that, of course, we in the Danish People's Party agree that this is quite the way it should be. This is something that is being implemented, as we have to do. And we are also well aware that for such large projects this rounds almost 60 billion. kr., when it is completed along the way, also during the design phase, etc., some ambiguity will arise and that there will then have to be corrected in relation to different situations. After all, the trial which the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned has been going on for a long time, and there has also been a considerable interest in examining what kind of agreement was reached on it. After all, we have to go back many years since Fehmarn Bælt was first discussed as a tangible idea as far back as 1936. It was a bridge connection, and it was then estimated that it might cost 0.5 billion. kr. To build it. And it can then be said that the passage of time has made it considerably more expensive, but it will also be more environmentally safe with a sensible solution with a tunnel solution that we are talking about now. We need to look ahead, and we also need to follow the project in the years that will go by there are well over 8 years left. Of course, we must follow this from the political point of view, not least from the minister who is in office at all times. If there are further questions and things that need to be clarified, etc., both about funding and working conditions and everything else, we must, of course, also deal politically with those concerns and what else might come. But the financing side here looks reasonable. In fact, we share the message that was in the written assessment prepared by the Minister for Transport following the European Commission's State Aid Decision back in 2020, as I recall. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135041	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135102	Thank you. I'll be brief. There's definitely been a lot of trouble with this building, and there's probably gonna be a lot of trouble in the future, but just this, so we're gonna get this state aid decision implemented, we're gonna back it up. I do not really have any further comments to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135127	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135140	Thank you. Femern Bælt will be the world's longest sinking tunnel for the nett sum of 52 billion. kr. We have been against this in the Enhedslisten all the way through. We have this for a number of reasons, which have been mentioned in the House in the past, among others. the economy of the project. Now we have a legislative proposal which, in turn, must try to ensure that the economy of the project lasts, following a decision on State aid from the European Commission. In advance, the traffic calculations behind the Fehmarn project have been surrounded by secrecy and have been strongly criticised for not being true. Similarly, traffic researchers have challenged the economy of the project and considered that the repayment period far exceeded the 36-year limit set by the conciliation parties. The 36-year pain limit has been set so that the project would not suffer what is called the death of interest rates, i.e. that the Fehmarn fixed link would not be able to pay itself home in ticket revenues. In addition, there are a number of environmental issues in connection with the Fehmarnlink, including: the impact on the seabed. In addition, there has been massive opposition among a number of German friends. The Enhedslisten did not support the Fehmarnlink when it was decided. We still do not. But, of course, it is clear that the Folketing must follow a decision that has come from the European Commission and, on that basis, the Enhedslisten cannot support or vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135313	There is a question from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135317	It is more a question of the general resistance from Enhedslisten to build. Well, why is Enhedslisten really against everything in this world? The Fehmarn link ensures that the rail network in Europe is considerably improved. Goods can be put on trains and transported from southern Europe to northern Europe via the Fehmarn fixed link. So these are some considerations that one would think Enhedslisten could support, but after all, there is always some reason why Enhedslisten is against. One is opposed to the arrival of a metro in Copenhagen because one has found some reason for it, although it should of course be right to the Enhedslisten that we should have such a fine public transport in Copenhagen. And so too when it comes to rail transport in Europe, there has also been a reason to oppose it. Does it ever stop?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135417	The Enhedslisten is not always opposed, and if the Liberal Alliance rapporteur listened when the Enhedslisten rapporteurs were on Parliament's platform, he would know that we always come up with an alternative to what to do. It is clear that if we were now looking at a project where it was about only having trains on the Fehmarn connection, it was something else, and if we could find a cheaper way of ensuring transport in Copenhagen in a collective way, that would be very sensible. So I simply do not know what nonsense the rapporteur is making.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135448	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135449	You live in the real world, and you have to take a position on the progress and the proposals for progress that come on the table, and there it is just as if, no matter how much progress is made in relation to those which Enhedslisten claims you are taking care of, you always find some detail that allows you to say: 'Ah, what we are against'. One is opposed, although what is being done takes great account of something that the Enhedslisten is concerned with. I'm thinking, don't you ever get tired of being against it all the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135523	I can't wait for spring, so I usually get a little more happy and fresh. But otherwise, I'm in a reasonable mood. One might say that we can choose to give priority to building more motorways, low tunnels, Kattegat connections, military highways and everything else, or we can choose to spend the money on prioritising collective solutions, which are both sensible for nature and for the climate, and which actually have a real effect on congestion. This is the path that Enhedslisten would like, and that is the position we have been on all along.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135550	We thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135606	Thank you for that, President. On behalf of our rapporteur, Niels Flemming Hansen expresses the Conservative People's Party's position on L 168. The bill implements the European Commission's State Aid Decision on State aid granted by the Danish State to Femern A/S, and the approval is a prerequisite for us to start work on the fantastic Femern project, which we in the Conservative People's Party are very proud of and very happy about. That is why, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135643	Thank you to the rapporteur. And there doesn't seem to be anyone from the New Citizen, so we're going to the Liberal Alliance, and that's Mr. Ole Birk Olesen as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135654	Thank you. I would also like to skip slightly the technical background to this draft law presented by other rapporteurs. We agree with the draft law; we vote in favour of it. Then I'll continue for a while in mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's clues, for I also meet the Jutland voters I am also elected in Jutland who say: Why do you spend so many billions on something that should benefit Swedes when they want to get out more quickly in Europe? The answer to that is, of course, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has also said: Well we do not spend any billions on it, because a loan is being drawn up and the loan is being repaid by those who use the connection. The largest source of funding for the Fehmarnbelt connection is user payment from those who use it. And then there is another major contributor to it, and it is the European Union that does not pay for cars coming under the Fehmarn Belt, but which provides a substantial billion grants for trains coming under the Fehmarn Belt. So no tax dollars are being spent in Denmark on this project. On the contrary, what is at stake here, and that is my addition to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's speech is that at some point the Fehmarn Belt connection has been paid back. And then it is not jointly owned by the Danish and German states, nah, it is owned by the Danish state. And that means that if we choose to continue with, for example. 500 kroner. In order to drive under the Fehmarn Belt, even after the loan has been paid back, Swedes and Germans and Europeans will all be pouring billions into the Danish Treasury to use the building we have made • pour The billions we can then spend on building our own roads in Denmark or on some better rail connections or whatever we want. This is going to be a money machine for the Danish state, and it will save Danish taxpayers too much money, which then you don't have to pay in tax because instead we get the money from Swedes and Germans and other Europeans who use the Fehmarn Belt connection when the loan is paid back and there is no longer any money to be paid in instalments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135918	We thank the rapporteur. And then we'll go over to the Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311135937	Thank you. Mr President, the last speech by Mr Seligman... Ole Birk Olesen inevitably made me think of the Øresund Chair • We shall not go into that further here, but we can at least see that it was a really good business for really, very many years for the Danish state until there was something about that there were some wars that you lost. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law and for a good and constructive discussion today. I also recognise that, despite the fact that the proposal cannot be supported, the Enhedslisten is not voting against at least. As mentioned above, the Court of Justice of the European Union on 13 December 2018 annulled the then State aid authorisation granted by the European Commission in 2015 and on 20 March 2020 the Commission then took a new State aid decision with a number of requirements for the financing of Femern A/S with government re-loans and loans with a State guarantee. On the Danish side, we find it fundamentally difficult to see how the construction of a fixed link with road and runway under Fehmarnbelt can be covered by the EU State aid rules, which is why the government has also subpoenaed the Commission for parts of the decision in order to establish that the construction of user-paid public infrastructure is not an economic activity covered by the EU State aid rules. However, it is by its very nature also the case that many years may pass before a final judgment on this matter is handed down, and that is why we have to comply with the Commission's State aid decision here and now, and that is why we have put forward this legislative proposal which we are now considering, which is intended to implement the demands made by the Commission. What is crucial is that we are now in the process of building the link and have the opportunity to finance capital expenditure. That is why I am also looking forward to the further examination of the draft law in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311140144	Then we'll thank the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311140211	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311140236	Thank you, President. It is a good thing that the previous speaker had the platform cleaned up so thoroughly that it was me too! What we are going to talk about today is a proposal to amend the Road Traffic Code with a view to reducing the age limit for the acquisition of driving licences to large mopeds from 18 to 16 years. I am a little surprised that we should have this discussion at all, because the proposal, as I understand it, stems from the wishes of a few individuals. In this respect, we must already note that many people are opposed to the proposal and that the demand for young people is not so great. As some of you may recall, the proposal is essentially a re-submission of a previous bill, L 221, which was under consideration in the spring of 2019 but which, however, was interrupted at that time due to the announcement of the election. However, the difference from the previous proposal is that a clause has been incorporated requiring the Minister to revise the rules during the parliamentary year 2025-26. In connection with the submission of the previous draft law, L 221, the Road Safety Commission has previously decided whether it is advisable to lower the age limit for driving licences for large mopeds from 18 to 16 years, and this position took place, among other things, in the light of the Commission's recommendations. on the basis of a report made by the Technical University of Denmark. Here was a survey of moped driving, an accident analysis, a literature study and a national questionnaire survey. The then Road Safety Commission was presented with DTU's report and there were differences of opinion on whether or not the age limit could be recommended. Nor could the DTU's report clearly conclude whether or not a reduction in age would have a negative effect on road safety. Today there is a new Road Safety Commission which has been set up and, therefore, in the context of this proposal, I also thought it was very useful to have the present Road Safety Commission take a position on the subject and thus also give their advice on the road. Against this background, by the end of 2020, I asked the Commission to look again at the proposal, and this should be done in order to obtain the Commission's comments and recommendations as to whether such an initiative could be supported. The Road Safety Commission has recently returned and it appears from the feedback that 11 of the 12 responding members cannot recommend lowering the age limit. The Road Safety Commission's feedback is justified by the fact that driving on mopeds and motorcycles are the modes of transport with the highest risk of serious injury or of being killed in traffic compared to the number of kilometres driven. It is concerned that it will give the most risky young people greater access to the least safe means of transport, while at the same time risking moving them away from safer modes of transport such as bicycle, bus and car. I am, of course, aware that there is a broad consensus within the Road Safety Commission that this proposal cannot be supported. As I have stated before, there must be an unequivocal conclusion that such a reduction in the age limit will not have adverse consequences for road safety until the government will be able to support such a proposal. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that the government takes the overall feedback from the Road Safety Commission very seriously, just as we note that, on the basis of the DTU report, it has not been possible to conclude that it will not have negative road safety effects. Therefore, I myself and the government do not believe that lowering the age limit for driving licences to large mopeds would be a safe and sustainable solution. I look forward to discussing with the parties how we can respond in the best possible way to the desires for increased mobility and greater accessibility for young people. It is therefore an excellent discussion to take on board, however, without compromising on road safety. With these words, I must conclude that the government cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311140701	There are a number of questions. The first is from sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311140704	After all, a completely similar bill was tabled in the parliamentary assembly 2018-19 and had a majority in the Folketing before a parliamentary election got in the way. Part of that majority was Social Democracy. After all, there was a discussion of that proposal in the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group, and the Social Democrats' Transport Rapporteur publicly said that the Social Democrats intended to support it. What has happened in the meantime? It's not like something new has happened. Those who are concerned about road safety and who say that this is the only important thing in the world still believe that this should not be done, while the rest of us, who are also concerned about other things and who think that things should be balanced, still think that it should be implemented. But what has happened in the Social Democratic Party? It is a pity that, just before the elections, people who care about this proposal say that they want to support it, but then nothing has happened after the elections, and then they have just changed their minds.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311140804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311140806	Something's happened, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. It may be that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, when he was responsible minister, did not care what the Road Safety Commission was doing, but this government does. That is why, of course, I am listening very carefully to their conclusions. And the letter that has been sent is quite clear in its attitude and much clearer than what came from the previous Commission. I therefore do not think that it is possible to conclude, as Mr von der Vring has said. Ole Birk Olesen does, namely that nothing is new. It is very much there. I would very much like to discuss how we can promote the mobility of young people, but let us do so in a way that we also ensure that road safety is taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311140852	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311140853	I'm very concerned about road safety. I care about other things, too. Those things have to be balanced against each other. If you only cared about road safety, we should be moving at 30 km/h. On all roads. But we are also concerned about mobility, which is why we can drive faster on the roads. I just don't understand how it can be that, shortly before the elections, the Social Democrats say that this is a good idea, but after the elections, they have changed their minds. There are some voters who do not know where they have the Social Democracy. Then I just have to understand whether the Social Democrats' position on this has been deposited in the Road Safety Commission and that it is the Road Safety Commission alone that has changed the attitude of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311140936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311140937	I must now find all the inquiries that have come to the Minister from young people who would like to have access to drive like this. Well, there really isn't one! As I also said in my speech, this is something that is driven by relatively few people's wishes. If it is the case that young people's opportunities for increased mobility are to be promoted, I would very much like to look at it. But let's do it in such a way that we get these things into a higher unit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141007	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141009	Thank you. In fact, I had hoped and expected that this bill would receive a slightly more friendly reception from the Minister. After all, the Minister has actually said he was surprised that we have put it forward. I do not think that we should be, because it is less than two years since it was last discussed in this Chamber, in other words a broadly identical proposal, and at that time there was massive support from the Social Democrats for the proposal, and we were a few days away from adopting it, and so the Social Democrats also went to elections to implement it here. That is how the support for the proposal must be understood. This has changed, and I would like an answer to what has changed. The Road Safety Commission was also opposed at that time. It is not new that the Road Safety Commission is concerned about road safety, because they are in fact put in the world for that. So the second question is: what role does the Commission actually have? Is it not the case that they are set in the world to prevent accidents and point to risks, etc., but that it is a political task in this Chamber to choose which means of transport the Danes can use on the basis of a balance of many different considerations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141120	It is my clear view that the very capable members of the Road Safety Commission, who are working intensively to promote good traffic culture, to counteract traffic selfishness, to offer good advice and attitudes to the government, are also extremely competent. I myself have appointed both the President and the Vice-President of the Road Safety Commission, which is why I have only reason to listen very carefully to the Commission, and when so much of the Commission so clearly warns against the introduction of this proposal, I cannot ignore it. And then it should come as no surprise to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, that is the attitude of the government, because we had already pointed out that we wanted to include the Road Safety Commission in this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141226	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141227	Well, it's great to involve the commission, for example. Do we know that electric bicycles are very popular, but we also know that they are dangerous and that there are a lot of accidents with electric bicycles, and should that make us prohibit electric bicycles? I don't think so. That is why I would like to ask you about the fact that the Minister says that no young people are asking for this. I do not know which young people the Minister is talking to, but I am talking to a lot of young people living in the countryside, because I live there myself, and I should like to say that there is a desire to have more mobility, because there are not many buses now. At this moment, you are cutting down on bus routes in Central Jutland Region, because there has to be afford for an expensive light railway out in Aarhus, so there are fewer and fewer bus departures around, and the young people need to be compensated for this in some way by getting better mobility. So of the young people in the countryside, I can guarantee, there are a lot of people who want to do this. Go out and ask here in Copenhagen, and they will answer that they do not want mopeds, because they have nothing to use a moped for, as you can take your bike, you can take the collective transport. So what are some young people the Minister has talked to? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141343	That was the conclusion, in other words, that there have been no citizens' references to this. I myself live in a village in South Jutland where I fully understand there are some who need mobility, and therefore I think we should also look at how we promote mobility outside the major cities when we discuss mobility plans in this spring. I just have to say that it is very important to me that we get this overall assessment from the Road Safety Commission, it is essential to me that we ensure this and that road safety is at the top of the list.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141423	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141425	Thank you. The Minister has now said on several occasions that no representations have been made by young people, and that is quite crucial in the argument. But could it be that the young people do not write in to us parliamentary politicians about it, because they are actually counting on us to implement what we say we want to do? There was a massive majority before the elections, including the Social Democratic Party, who said: we want to do this. So it might well be that you do not start writing to the politicians because you expect them to actually pass through what they have said they would. But should I perhaps understand the Minister's position in the sense that if you now get a lot of inquiries from young people that they think this is a good idea, then you will change your position on it? After all, we have found that we cannot count on social democracy. Then it might be that the young people came and said: Hey, we actually want this. Will you change your mind if you get perhaps 100 or 500 inquiries before we are going to have the third reading of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141514	I understand there is a misunderstanding that the government should not have indicated that we will listen to the Road Safety Commission. I think that is quite wrong. From the first moment I entered the Ministry of Transport, I have stressed that road safety must be improved. There are a number of things that have been introduced over time that have not been properly thought through, thoroughly enough. A good example of this is electric wheels, where there was also road safety that should have been taken before an experimental system was introduced. We have then agreed on this, a broad majority here in the Folketing, makes good sense to look at. I understand that the Danish People's Party is also concerned about this. I think that is very wise and very sensible. So let us make sure that the available knowledge is there. And when it comes to promoting mobility, I would very much like to take a look at that, but it should not be at the expense of risking more young people losing their lives in traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141631	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141632	I mean, it was a good time to talk about it, to say the least. If the elections had come a week later, the Socialists would have voted in favour of this report, and we just needed to press the buttons in this Chamber and then we were on the other side of the election, and then they say: Well now we have not received a lot of requests from young people; now we do not think that is a good idea. Then my question is quite simple: if we now received some requests from young people in committee who say: we actually need this out here in our rural areas; we need more mobility; there are no buses we can take to go to school or to work; would the Minister re-evaluate his position on that? What if 500 or 1,000 young people come and say: this is actually a really good move for us, because we are free to tune our mopeds, we can drive them legally, and we can actually get to our education? I'm not asking for all kinds of extracurricular talk. It's gotta be simple. In other words, if you get a lot of inquiries from young people, will you re-evaluate your attitude to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141725	If there is before the last election, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær asks whether it had first been introduced here, as I understand it, there would have been some kind of review clause in relation to it, which means that at some point I should have decided, with the inclusion of the Road Safety Commission in the assessment, whether this proposal was good or bad. And I would have come to the same conclusion: if so, the government would have put forward a bill to abolish this scheme. It is clear that citizens are always welcome to approach the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141807	There are no more questions, and we thank the Minister. The next person to speak is Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311141830	Thank you, President. With the bill, the proposers will change the traffic law so that the age limit for obtaining driving licences for large mopeds, moped 45, is reduced from 18 to 16 years. We in the Socialist Group believe that this would be a step in the wrong direction for road safety in general and for the road safety of young people in particular. I want to be perfectly honest and say that in 2019 the Social Democracy was not dismissive of the previous bill L 221, which is almost identical to this bill we are debating today. The new thing that has happened in the meantime is that the Minister for Transport has asked the Road Safety Commission to look into the subject and comment on it. In its reply, the Commission has made it very clear that the age limit for obtaining driving licences for large mopeds should not be reduced from 18 to 16 years. Behind that statement by the Road Safety Commission is that 11 out of 12 hearing responses cannot recommend that the age limit be reduced. In the consultation answers, for example, say: The Council for Safe Transport states that two-wheel motorized vehicles are the transport modes with the highest risk of being seriously injured or killed in traffic compared to the number of kilometres driven. The Council for Safe Transport believes that lowering the age limit for large mopeds from 18 to 16 years gives the most risky young people greater access to the least safe means of transport, while at the same time risking moving them away from safer modes of transport such as bicycle, bus and car. The Council for Safe Traffic stresses that reducing the age limit is likely to be both costly and would entail human costs in the form of more people killed and injured. The Technical University of Denmark points out that two-wheeled vehicles are the vehicle type with the greatest risk of involvement in a road accident with serious injury or death. According to DTU, it is well documented that young road users constitute a risk group in traffic, also in Denmark. Young people's age-related cognitive and psychosocial development is a key element in young people's risk in traffic, and among young moped drivers this includes: expression of risk behaviour and strong faith in your own ability to master the vehicle, e.g. at high speed, as well as strong faith in the ability to prevent accident involvement. We can ask ourselves whether the possible introduction of moped 45 for 16-18-year-olds will lead to fewer tuned mopeds, which are of course a major problem in some places, and in the National Police's response, the assessment is that the possibility of obtaining a driving licence for large mopeds at 16-year-olds will not result in fewer illegal mopeds, since the legal speed of the big moped will not be found fast enough in the eyes of young people, for they will continue to tune the moped 30 that can be acquired at 15-year-olds, or perhaps a moped 45 if they were able to do so. In the debate, the argument about better mobility for young people has been put forward, and mobility in general and for young people is, of course, something that is really, really important, no doubt about that, but the truth is that young people will continue to be able to drive on mopeds, e-bikes, regular bikes, so that mobility is possible, and on some electric bikes the speed will be quite nice. In addition, I would like to point out that because, for example, the transport companies, such as the United Kingdom, are not in a position to take part in the debate on the proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the Member States relating to the transport of dangerous goods by road. Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen mentioned in his speech, in Midtjylland, where I myself come from, over the years have also saved because they have been pressured on the economy and have saved routes in public transport away, one should not pretend that with this bill, just like with a fingertips, one can get the mobility back. You also have to stand by your own past sins, in relation to how the economy is in these transport companies, and we are not going to solve that with this bill. From the answers to the questions to the Road Safety Commission, it appears that it is not exactly a public demand from either parents or young people to have this proposal implemented. Finally, I would like to say that the Social Democrats give priority to road safety and do not want to take risks in relation to the lives and skills of young people. The consultation responses submitted to the Road Safety Commission by a large number of stakeholders with a great deal of insight into the issue are very clear: if we are to weigh road safety against an unsubstantiated argument for a need for increased mobility, we must give priority to road safety. Social democracy cannot therefore support the proposal. Once again, I welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, who has other activities here at Christiansborg today, and say that the Radical Left cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142334	There are a number of questions. The first to have a brief comment is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142338	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I have to say that the Social Democratic Party has a completely different attitude to it than it had just before the last parliamentary elections. I think that will surprise a great deal and especially me, because I do not really see anything new in the matter in relation to then. I'd like to ask, sir. Thomas Jensen confirms this: firstly, when there is a serious accident with a moped, Mr. Thomas Jensen then confirms that it is usually associated with illegal activities, for example. That it is tuned and drives too fast, that you are hammering drunk, or that you drive without a helmet? That's one thing. Secondly, Mr. Thomas Jensen confirms that in the rest of Europe you can drive large mopeds from either 15 years or 16 years of age, unlike in Denmark, which is the only country in Europe where you have to be 18 years old? And thirdly, Mr. Thomas Jensen confirms that in Norway and Sweden there are no more road deaths 15-17-year-olds, although you can drive large mopeds in Sweden, from 15 years of age, and in Norway, from 16 years of age? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142450	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen postulates that there is nothing new since this proposal was dealt with last time, namely in spring 2019. As I said in my speech, and as the Minister has also pointed out in his speech, it has therefore happened that we have asked the Road Safety Commission, where Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen himself disputes the Vice-President's position on making an assessment of this, and in fact I think it is good, factual reading, which at least suits me very well as rapporteur to take a clear position on this proposal, because we are dealing with an age group of young people where, if they are given the opportunity to drive stronger, it will also lead to lower road safety, it will lead to more accidents, and this could lead to more people dying in road accidents. It is, of course, from the point of view of where young people are in their psychosocial and cognitive development, as I explained, and we must take that into account when we look at such a proposal, and when 11 out of 12 consultation parties say that this would be a really bad idea, that is something that I, as a Socialist rapporteur, am listening to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142606	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142608	Well then, I have to say that the Socialists believe that precisely Danish young people are less qualified to drive on a moped than young people in the rest of Europe, that is, there should be a special problem here in Denmark. And with regard to road safety: well, everyone in this Chamber is concerned about that, in particular, I have even allowed myself to write a book about it and spend part of my spare time on it. So this proposal has not been made in a fit of gluttonous evil. It has been put forward because we believe that there is a reasonable balance between the increase in mobility on the one hand and road safety on the other. But sir... Thomas Jensen confirms that before the last time we dealt with this bill, there was also a consultation response from the Council for Safe Transport and the police and others with an understanding of road safety who warned against this, but that, on the basis of an overall political assessment, we ended up saying that we are voting in favour and that this was also the case with the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142705	Let me start by saying that I myself was not the rapporteur on the proposal at the time and have therefore not been down in all the documents on which it was based at that time. But there has certainly been something, and I will not deny it, which has said anything about road safety. But I would like to say that when I stand here as Social Democrat rapporteur today and look at the consultation answers that have come to the Road Safety Commission, I think these are serious arguments which emphasise that we should not go out of that path. One of the things I think will come out in the consultation answers is the fact that the young people who want to drive really, really fast will not have their wish met with a moped of 45. Those who tune a moped today will also tune a moped in the future, and that is why we jointly have a great task of looking at what we can do to ensure that those who want to tune the moped do not do so in the future, because that is where we have the huge problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142759	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142800	Thank you. I have to be honest and say that I did not sit in the Folketing at all when this was dealt with for the first time, and I could then understand that the Social Democratic Party has changed its attitude or opinion or something to this. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can confirm that you have to be 16 years old in order to get a tractor licence. That is why I am a little surprised that the Social Democrats take this view when, at the age of 16, you are allowed to drive a tractor or have to drive an electric wheel that can drive 45 km/h.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142834	I can confirm that a tractor licence can be obtained at the age of 16, but I do not equate the two vehicles: a four-wheeled tractor and a two-wheeled moped. It is the case, as the hearing answers also show, that when you drive on two-wheeled vehicles, you are extra exposed; you are more vulnerable in traffic. If you are at high speed or drive a little more risky, you are very at risk and can do damage to yourself in accidents. That is why I think we should avoid comparing tractors with mopeds.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311142917	When you sit in a tractor, you are a much greater danger to others if you do not drive it properly. That is why the rapporteur's arguments are not really coherent. On the subject of the tuned mopeds, I just have to say that I remember my father telling me that he was born in 1953 too. There's always a segment that will tune the mopeds because they want to drive really, really fast, and that's what it is; it's illegal already today. What we are addressing with this proposal is that, as a young person in an outermost region of Denmark, where you don't have the opportunity to just take the next bus and you're not old enough to drive a car, you actually have a real opportunity to get on a vehicle and for example. get to his place of education. Why will the Socialists not support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143009	It is, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, because we already have the mobility option on a moped 30. You can obtain a driving licence for it at the age of 15, and you must use it when you are 16 and 17 years old. So there is a possibility of mobility. It is then a matter of speed, and when we start to address the issue of the speed of two-wheeled vehicles, it happens that road safety is beginning to take off on the road safety of the individual who gets on this two-wheeled vehicle. And if it is the case that you do not have it, or if you take a little too many chances in traffic, it is what you can do to yourself and also to others, and the Social Democrats will not do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143048	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143050	There was just such a thing as this that I stumbled over and which is not really connected with the argument, and it is, of course, that the Social Democrats say that in order to be able to drive 45 km/h. on a moped must be 18 years, because it is on two wheels, and it is too uncertain. At the same time, however, we have legislation that says that you can drive 45 km/h. on an e-bike, a so-called speedpedec, when you are 15 years old, i.e. if you are 3 years younger, and it is also on two wheels and equally vulnerable in traffic. So do the Social Democrats themselves think that there is symmetry in legislation when you have to be 18 years old to drive on a moped that drives 45 km/h, but can ride a bike that can drive 45 km/h when you are 15 years old? What is it that separates Danish young people from young people in other countries, where you can handle when you are 16 years old driving on a moped that drives 45 km/h.? Could it not be that it was just as safe for Danish young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143141	I know that sometimes in the debate we hear a comparison between moped 45 and these speedpeddelec I cannot pronounce it properly, but I think the rapporteur can correct me when he gets the floor again in a moment. But, well, I don't see that it's exactly the same type of vehicle. It's not like you come milling at 45 km/h. with the same acceleration that I have understood the technique is in these vehicles, so I do not think you can quite compare it, as well as I do not think you could compare a moped 45 with a tractor before. But, of course, we must ensure that road safety, also for those on electric bicycles that can drive fast, is in order; and there is, for example, a good deal. also some requirements for them to have to ride with a helmet. However, no, I do not think it is quite the same vehicle as the questioner is trying to draw it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143234	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143235	No, I am aware that it is not the same vehicle, but when the argument on the part of the Social Democrats is that it is the speed that is dangerous, and the fact that you drive on two wheels that are dangerous, then it is strange that you can drive on an e-bike that can drive 45 km/h at the age of 15, but if you drive on a moped, you have to be 18 years to drive 45 km/h. Can the rapporteur himself not hear that this sounds quite illogical? It should almost give itself that if you drive 45 km/h. On an e-bike, which I believe can accelerate many times than a moped can, it is a little strange why one age limit could not be reduced a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143310	As I understand these speed bikes, it's such a thing that the unassisted have to drive up to 20 km/h. in the same way as big mopeds. Well, it's not exactly the same requirement that applies to these speed bikes as the one proposed in this bill. So I do not think that parallelism is entirely appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143344	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143345	In case I admit, sir... Thomas Jensen, that there is a possibility that more people will be injured in traffic if you allow 16-year-olds to drive moped 45, Mr. Thomas Jensen admits that the point of saying that because more people are going to get hurt, we must not do so, is a very, very simplistic way of discussing it, because it would of course set all sorts of limits that we should set for traffic today and all sorts of other places as well? Well, there are more people dying on the highways because people have to drive up to 130 km/h than if people were only allowed to drive 80 km/h. and they enforced it with speed control everywhere. There are more people dying in town because you can drive 50 km/h than if you were only allowed to drive 30 km/h. And there were starling boxes everywhere. So we are always making a balance where we say that we would like to have mobility in this society, and in order to have mobility, we also have to recognise that when you move out there, even at a certain speed, you can also get hurt. But the fact that you can
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143451	I think it is easy to use the argument that I am using simply because, like these consultation answers from the Road Safety Commission, we are also stressing here that we are dealing with a group of young people who are just developing as road users. And if they are going to drive on a two-wheeled vehicle at a high speed, their exposure is both in terms of their own ability and also, unfortunately, of others. That is why we must also try, through legislation, to ensure that these people do not harm themselves and others. And I think that's a fine argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143529	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143530	Yes, but the same thing is true at the moment they go from their bike to a moped 30, a small moped. There is also an increase in the risk of driving, and yet we allow it because we think that young people should have the opportunity to get back and forth. We know that a lot of people benefit from it and that it is a very, very small part that will, after all, be harmed compared to all those who benefit from it. I am simply asking that the Social Democrats have so much intellectual profit that they can relate to such a balance, rather than simply saying that someone is going to get hurt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143609	Well, we've also done that balance because we can see that if you raise the speed, for example. From moped 30 to moped 45 for 16-18-year-olds, the speed increase is 15 km/h. also something that has major consequences if you drive into something or drive into someone. On the basis of all the expert opinions and official statements from the National Police and others that have come here now in connection with the consultation phase that has taken place in the Road Safety Commission, I think there is, in fact, good evidence to say that this is something we would actually like to prevent, namely that some young people are going to get hurt with these moped 45. And I also think it is important to bear in mind that some parents have actually indicated in the DTU study that they would actually be insecure that their young people should be riding on these moped 45.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143657	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur to be on the platform is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311143716	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we are co-authors of this proposal together with the Left, Conservative, New Civil and Liberal Alliance, so we naturally support the proposal. But I would also like to mention some of the history behind it. In fact, it is originally two motions for resolutions from the Danish People's Party which have highlighted this and which have been rejected. In the last parliamentary term, there was then a bourgeois majority who thought it was a good idea, in fact also supported by the Socialists, and that is why I think it is rather strange that we should then opt out today. It was not just the public support in the media; in fact, it had been supported in this Parliament that the report had been submitted, and the only thing we lacked was simply to press the button, and then this was passed through. That is why we thought it was obvious, in other words the parties who supported the bill at the time, that we retabled, and indeed we offered the offer to the Social Democratic Party whether they would like to be included, but that would not be the case anyway, it is now apparent, and we really do find that regrettable. It is actually just quiet that we want to give young people the opportunity to have greater mobility by reducing the age limit from 18 to 16 years in order to get a big moped, i.e. a moped 45, I think they are called out there and also in professional language. It was something that could help especially young people who live in a place where there might not be a bus quite often, or where there might not be a bus at all when they go to work, into technical school, to hobbies or just visit friends at night. This is therefore a challenge for people living in rural areas, and I think this could be a good, great help to mitigate it. This will also help to solve another problem, which is that there are a great many people who tune their mopeds, and that is actually what Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen mentioned in a brief remark earlier, which is responsible for many of the accidents that are happening. Well, it's people who tune their mopeds and maybe also drive drunk driving and without a crash helmet and what it can be. But by giving them the opportunity to drive a bit faster, not so you can just race out there, but so you get to drive a bit faster, i.e. 45 km/h., I think you could avoid some of these dangerous tunings of mopeds and thereby also reduce the number of accidents. In fact, there has also been a review into what was not included in the previous legislative proposal and where we could actually have had the experience of it exactly the same way as we did with a proposal last week for a Tempo 100 approval on a caravan where there were similar concerns in relation to accidents. It was then given the opportunity to have it evaluated and it turned out that there was no road safety to come for. But there's another paradoxical thing in this, and that's that there's no symmetry in relation to the rest of the legislation, because you can buy an e-bike, a so-called speedpedelec... I don't think, sir. Thomas Jensen, that I can pronounce it better than you... who must drive 45 km/h. You only have to be 15 years old to be able to drive one of these with a small moped driving licence, so it has the same speed as the big moped that you have to be 18 years old to drive on. So it seems rather illogical, because if the argument is road safety, I would say that you are equally exposed to a large e-bike that can drive 45 km/h. and are on two wheels without any body or protection around, and where there is not even a requirement for a crash helmet as you are, if you drive on a moped, where there are also requirements for a crash helmet. I mean, is that supposed to be better? I would just like to make one final comment: it is strange why Denmark should have a much more vulnerable youth here. Denmark and Malta are the only countries in the European Union that have this high limit of 18 years, and when you can find out in all the other EU countries that you have this limit of 16 years, some in 15 years, it might well be that Danish young people could also manage this in a good and sound way. I think it is a pity that there does not appear to be a majority, at least in relation to the majority that was in the past. However, in the Danish People's Party we naturally support the proposal that we ourselves have been involved in making.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144056	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144115	Thank you. I think that the advice we have received from those concerned with road safety speaks its very clear language in this. The SF could not support the proposal last time, and neither can we now, and there is a reason for that. I myself am from Lolland, I am from an area where there are open spaces and many young people who find it difficult to move around and who are bored a little, and I fully understand the need to be able to move around freely. I do, but I must also say that these young people are probably doing accidents in advance, sometimes to great harm to themselves when it comes to traffic, and I do not see why we should allow them to put themselves in danger and put others at risk with this when there is not really a demand for it. They already have access to a moped it's so good enough the little moped and let me just say when I can see how they treat the vehicle where I live, that then I don't think I'd be comfortable just based on giving them access to this. And I can see that road safety organizations and various others are in complete agreement with that, and I really think that should be noted. I had actually seen the whole blue block as something that was concerned with road safety, with the exception of Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, I don't know. But this idea that two hell with security, to hell with everything that kind of does good for us to look after each other... In the Assembly Hall it takes place in Danish, so we only use Danish words). Excuse me, Chairman. I will not use the Danish word, I will say. But I do not recognize the blue block in that, and I do not recognise the SF in that, and that is why we will not be voting for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144335	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144338	Thank you to Mrs Valentina Berthelsen for her speech. I would just like to make it clear that in the blue block we are at least in the left, but I am also sure that in the rest of the blue block we do not care about security, because we really care about that very much. However, as politicians, we need to balance security with mobility considerations. Among other things, it has. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen explained that all the time is a balance and we must, of course, stand at the goal of safety. I respect the SF's position in this matter, because I've had it all the time, and you went to the polls that you wouldn't have large mopeds allowed from 16 years, unlike the Social Democratic Party. But I would like to ask SF when it is apparently very dangerous to drive 45 km/h. On a motorized vehicle at 16 years old it is just like what is in the SF's plan to propose the abolition of speedpedec, on which you are allowed to drive at 15 years old, as long as you have a driving licence for a small moped.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144439	I think I'll tell you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen a story that puts his questions a little in perspective. When I was 5-6 years old, I was sitting in the back seat of my father's car with a friend, my father was inside a Bruges to trade, and we two 5-6-year-old girls agree that we want to go see Grandpa. Somehow we get this car started and we're on our way to Grandpa's, and it's quite slow enough for somebody to stop us, and thank God for it. I don't know if sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen can see the parallels, but just because you think that the individual is responsible for his own safety and that there are other drives which are, in fact, also dangerous if the wrong people use them, does that mean that we should also release them? No, of course not. I could never dream of allowing six-year-old Anne to drive for her personal freedom, even if others might be able to find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144556	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144557	I can guarantee that I couldn't dream of allowing a 6-year-old to do that either, but I thought it was a nice and funny story, and it was nice that after all it ended well and that someone stopped the car. But I do not think it is a fair comparison when we speak politically. Because here we have a means of transport where in the rest of Europe you can drive legally from 15 or 16 years of age and where in Denmark as the only country you have to be 18 years of age to qualify to go at 45 km/h.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144627	Yes, but while there are other places where you can drive legally on these, the European Road Safety Observatory also says that the risk of injury when driving on any vehicle is generally much higher if you are young than if you are older and they generally recommend high age limits for driving licences for these things. It is, of course, up to the countries themselves to assess, and there I just think that we in Denmark should take up the responsible assessment that our road safety organisations and others are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144659	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144700	I would also like to sign for the speech, and after all I think it is a good thing that we think the same thing was done before the elections. The Socialists could then learn from that. So it is not really to criticise that one is against it. Well, that's kind of expected. I was a little more upset about the speech, in the sense that it was so indicated that we should all be indifferent to road safety, although we are actually just quietly proposing what we do in virtually all other EU countries, namely that we allow you to drive on a moped that can drive 45 km/h when you are 16 years old. So I just have to understand whether the SF rapporteur thinks that all the politicians in Europe are simply irresponsible, because they mean the same thing as the proposers. I mean, it's not so reckless that you can drive 40 miles an hour. on an e-bike without a crash helmet... that's not even required when you're 15 years old? But if you drive a moped, you have to be 18 years old and wear a crash helmet.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144751-2	I think that the analogy expressed by the honourable Member here, in terms of how we should decide whether we should be for or against things, is a little strange. In other words, it is pointed out that other countries allow it here, but we do not want to deal with the road safety organisations and others who have said that it is only in the Danish context to advise against it. In other countries of the world, women are not allowed to stand for parliament. Should we listen to them just because other countries feel that way? Even if that was true of many countries, I do not assume that the questioner is of the opinion. So why is the questioner not going to deal with the professional judgement that lies rather than just saying that our neighbours feel this way, so why can we not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144836	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144837	Well, I actually think it's SF that looks very one-eyed on this. You look fair enough at road safety, but you just forget all the benefits you give to typically young people who, with this, get more mobility in everyday life. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen gave us a good example, where he asked: Should we not just all drive only 30 km/h. In the city? Why not just drive 10 km/h, because then there is a better road safety? Well, we have to make up for these two things. When you have found out in the rest of Europe that there are positive things about saying that you can drive a big moped when you are 16 years old, it is because the positive things that come with regard to the mobility of their populations far outweigh the risk that you then run after all. So shouldn't SF open both eyes so they could look a little more nuanced on this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311144921	Now I think that the example of the questioner in relation to speed reductions is perhaps a little misplaced, because in many places the SF is in favour of a significant degree of speed reductions both for road safety but also for the sake of noise reduction, but we can then talk about that at another time. However, I would just like to say that, of course, we are in favour of young people having greater mobility. This is among other things. Therefore, we would like to strengthen public transport and that we would also like to make it cheaper, and we are in favour of them being able to acquire a moped as they can now just a small one. And, of course, that is something that contributes to mobility, but we do not see why we need to risk our lives to do something that there is no demand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145000	Then it's Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145001	I would like to completely deny what Mrs Valentina Berthelsen has said that I should not be concerned about road safety. While I was a minister in this area, I was personally driving, compared to Denmark being involved in making much higher demands through the EU system for car equipment, which made them safer for vulnerable road users. And in all sorts of other ways, also in relation to right-wing accidents and trucks, I have also had a high profile and have made a great deal of it because I care about it. What I would like Mrs Valentina Berthelsen to do is to weigh up. We know that there are many more accidents when people cycle than when they leave or when they take the bus. Does this mean that we should not build so many bike paths in Denmark because the accident rate increases, the more people climbing on a bike rather than walking or taking the bus?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145100	After all, we can also turn the question to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen about and say that although we can see that there are other things, other means of transport, other ways of moving, which have a higher accident rate, does this mean that we have to add more accidents to the statistics by releasing the possibility of using a means of transport such as this, despite professional advice, when you are significantly younger than it is actually advisable to be when you have to drive on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145130	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145131	What that means is that Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen now recognizes that she wants more people to take the bike, despite the fact that it leads to more accidents. It is because Mrs Valentina Berthelsen thinks that the bicycle has so many other advantages. Therefore, I just ask that SF can also enter the adult world and tell that yes, it may well be that there are a little more accidents with young people on moped 45, but it must be kept up against how many benefits we get from it. The two things have to be balanced, and if the SF then arrives that the benefits are less than the disadvantages, it is fine, but the fact that more accidents happen is just not an argument in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145213	So, for a former minister who says he cares a lot about road safety, I find it strange that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen does not think that the fact that more accidents happen cannot be an argument in itself. I think that is a worrying statement, I would say. Of course, SF thinks that cycling is better, it is green and it is good for public health, but that is not what we are talking about. What we are talking about is whether we will add more accidents to accident statistics and put others' lives at risk, both other people in traffic and those driving on these, and there is the answer no. It's grown up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145249	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145310	The Council for Safe Transport states this clearly and unequivocally: mopeds, together with motorcycles, are the means of transport which present the greatest risk of serious injury and, at worst, of being killed in traffic, and they point out that the proposal will seriously oppose the Road Safety Commission's action plan aimed at precisely reducing the number of people killed and injured in traffic. The National Police are of the same opinion. They point out that a reduced age limit for driving on large mopeds would have a negative impact on road safety, just as it is not the opinion of the National Police that allowing 16-year-olds to drive large mopeds would mean a decrease in the number of tuned mopeds. The Maritime Commission on Road Traffic Accidents has previously carried out a detailed study of the use of mopeds for people over and under 20 years of age respectively. The conclusions of the study are very clear in relation to young people under the age of 20: young people generally run much more risky than older people on mopeds, and at the same time the average speed is considerably higher. It's a pattern that many people might recognize. The depth analysis clearly shows that there is a high risk behaviour in the case of young people moped driving, which the study justifies with a lack of experience in driving, a lack of recognition of other road users and a high degree of over-assessment of their own driving skills. Denmark is at the top in terms of road safety. We do, among other things. because we have very restrictive legislation in relation to age for driving licences. The EU's driving licence directive has a minimum age limit of 16 years for large mopeds and small motorcycle. But in Denmark we have chosen that age limit to be 18 years. And I think that the Havari Commission on Road Traffic Accidents' in-depth investigation confirms very well why. The Enhedslisten could not support this bill the last time it was tabled, and neither can we today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145517	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145521	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and respect for the fact that Enhedslisten thinks the same thing now that you meant before the elections. It is a good principle which I believe strengthens confidence in our people's rule. I understand that Enhedslisten places absolutely one-sided emphasis on road safety, and it is particularly middle-aged and older people who are injured on their e-bikes. They write that in 2018 344 road users on electric bicycles injured in road accidents and that the group of 55-64-year-olds in particular are at risk. I mean, older people on e-bikes are obviously dangerous. Does Enhedslisten have any thoughts about banning older people from riding e-bikes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145616	No, Enhedslisten hasn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145621	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145623	I am very pleased about that, because I think we should leave it to the individual Dane. We must inform you as much as possible about the risks associated with the individual means of transport. We must inform you about this as a society, and we must do everything in our power to prevent accidents involving individual means of transport. But we must then let the individual make his or her own free choice and decide what risks he or she will take when setting up on a moped, knowing that it is a little more dangerous than other means of transport, or when sitting on an e-bike, knowing that it is a little more dangerous. So thank you to the Enhedslisten for holding onto the citizens' free elections after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145653	Thanks for the rose. I would like to say that as a society we also have a responsibility for people under the age of 18, and I think that maintaining the 18-year limit is a sensible way of taking responsibility for the fact that we do not see any more accidents and more deaths in the case of mopeds in traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145714	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145730	Thank you very much for that, and I am delighted that it was spritted off. I hope that on the day I borrow the moped of the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, he will also drink off the throttle so that I can get on the road. I come from that part of the country where there's really, really a lot on mopeds. When I was young, it was a Yamaha with four gears. They stopped producing it in 1979. And the reason it was so extremely popular back then was that it was the moped that could be tuned most. Later came Yamaha FS1, and it was awful, because it couldn't be tuned quite that much. Nowadays, these jealous mopeds are not sold so many of them anymore. On the other hand, it is sold what is called moped 30, which is small mopeds and is dimensioned to be small mopeds, i.e. with the brakes designed to brake down from 30 km/h. etc. etc. Now it is just the case that not many of the mopeds are not tuned or modified as it is called. But they are simply not built for that purpose or designed for that purpose. And the vast majority of the accidents that occur in this area occur on a tuned moped 30, which even runs on our bike paths. As far as I remember, it was six out of seven fatal accidents that happened on a moped that happened on a tuned moped 30. We would like young people to be able to drive on moped 45 from 16 years of age, just as they do in Germany when it comes to moped and mofa. We recognise this and think it is right, very fine, as long as the penalty for driving on a tuned moped 30 is also raised so that it simply does not pay and there is some kind of driving instruction in connection with it. We will look forward very, very much to getting this law through, because I am absolutely sure that the honorable minister in this area and his party will, of course, stand by the things they said before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311145942	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311150010	Thank you. I think this is a very good proposal, and it is, in fact, a proposal for which there was fairly broad support before the elections, I understand. It is, of course, a pity that it does not go through the way it looks now because the Social Democratic Party in this area has jumped into the goal and does not mean the same as they did before the elections. I think there is a very good reason to ensure that at the age of 16 you can drive on a moped 45, both because we can see this with how many mopeds are actually being tuned, but also because in many outlying areas of our country there are longer education institutions that are longer for the comrades and there are longer when you have to go around to things. There it would make sense if you could drive a little stronger on your moped. So, of course, we support the proposal. We are also co-sponsors, so it would probably surprise people too if we did not. Of course, we support this proposal. We think this is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311150117	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311150134	Whether you think that 16-year-olds should be allowed to drive moped 45 or not, you can do the debate the service of treating it seriously and not pretending that you have the view that if some extra people can get hurt in traffic, everything must be banned. That is not the view of any human being. We are all weighing down whether additional mobility can compensate for the additional accidents that may occur. The speed limits have also been set in a way in which it has to be observed that if the speed limits were lower, fewer people would die in traffic at least if we could check that they were complied with. If you were only allowed to drive 80 km/h. on the highway and there were starling boxes all over the place that made sure people didn't drive over 80 km/h, then fewer people would die on the highway. If you were only allowed to drive 50 km/h. on the road and there were starling boxes all over to control it, then fewer people would die in road traffic. And if you were only allowed to drive 30 km/h. Inside the city instead of 50 km/h. and it was checked that it was observed, with fines everywhere, then fewer people would die inside the city. But we all weigh up and say: well, we have to be able to come forward in this society as well. Otherwise, the only thing we can do in the end is sit at home on the couch and watch TV. Because there's a risk associated with pretty much everything we do. Should it be possible to go to horse sports in Denmark? Aren't there a lot of people who get hurt by going to horse sports? And what about those who go out and ski how many do not get hurt by it? Well, we weigh it down and say: Well, of course it must be possible to ride a horse, even if it is dangerous, and of course it must also be possible to ski, even if it is dangerous. We are also doing this in traffic, and that is why we are not doing the debate a favour by standing in this Chamber and having as the only argument that young people are not allowed to run moped 45, that there are probably some more people who will get hurt. Yeah, I'll admit it. I also think that there are a few more people who will get hurt. But the vast majority will not get hurt. They will drive on their moped 45 from home to high school or from home to football and will experience an increased opportunity for mobility that they do not have today. And all these, by far the majority, will make a better life out of it. Therefore, you can go that way, even if more people are likely to get hurt. That is the policy we have in all other areas. And when you stand in this Chamber and say that you must not, because more people will be harmed, you basically lie about what the same principles are for the policies of this society, because you accept that more people will be harmed in all sorts of other areas. You just have something against young people driving on moped 45, so you won't accept more people getting hurt. For Enhedslisten it is probably something about moped 45 burning petrol and emitting CO2 For as we have also heard in the debate here, Enhedslisten doesn't mind that it is allowed to run on speedpedelec, which is a powerful e-bike, and which assisted can run up to 45 km/h. until the engine disables. You can do that if you have a moped licence and so you are 15 years old, not 16 years old, but 15 years old. You don't mind, and I guess it's because it doesn't burn off gas. And I think that is actually true of many parts of the left here today, so that their position on moped 45 has nothing to do with road safety, because then they would also ban speedpedec. But this alone has something to do with the general view of whether or not to burn petrol and whether young people should learn to burn petrol. We would like to help increase the mobility of 16-year-olds who would be able to move on to the world if they could have a moped 45, and that is why we will be voting in favour of this bill, which we have also tabled, just as we would be voting in favour of it in the last parliamentary term when we tabled it. But then we were interrupted by an election, and if we had not been, if the elections had been held a few days later, then the Social Democrats would have voted in favour of the bill, and then we would probably not have stood here today and proposed it abolished again. So it is hypocrisy and electoral deception which the Social Democrats must explain.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311150635	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311150638	Thank you. A few days ago, I was able to learn from the press that the rapporteur had reached a compromise on the basis of a number of statements made by the rapporteur on a television broadcast, and it is often the case with rapporteurs that there are some somewhat lost statements. The rapporteur has just said that we are lying in this Chamber. In the transport sector, I think we usually have a good dialogue with each other. We get together on many things, and then there are some things on which we disagree, but we should not stand and accuse each other of lying in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311150713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311150714	I didn't use the word lie. I used the word electoral deception, and I used the word hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311150721	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311150723	I heard the word lying being used. It may happen that I heard wrong. We can test that in the minutes afterwards. But at least I heard one thing from what the rapporteur has said today, and that is that this is a balance. I would just like to say that, as far as my party is concerned, there is the balance that road safety must be at the top, and we can see that if we allow more young people to drive more heavily on two-wheeled vehicles, then there are more parents who have to put their children in coffins or pick them up in a hospital after they have gone wrong. That is why we are listening to the parents who have told DTU that they are not actually comfortable with young people being able to drive stronger and therefore on moped 45.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311150800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311150801	Well, I understand that for some reason the Social Democrats have changed their minds. What I just don't understand is why. Because I'm assuming that mr. Thomas Jensen was part of the majority of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group which, before the elections, felt that this should be adopted. After all, we have not heard any reason why the Social Democratic Party has changed its mind. The hearings, which are today negative, were also negative before the elections. There has been no change. People who are concerned about road safety alone warn each time we do something that increases mobility, but which also leads to some being injured.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311150836	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311150853	Thank you for that, President. After all, recycling is both modern and environmentally correct, and this bill is precisely recycling, as the debate has shown. It is a re-submission of virtually the same bill that we discussed back in April, May 2019 just before the parliamentary elections. What we are proposing here in concrete terms is that we change the traffic law so that in future it will be possible for 16-year-olds to drive large mopeds. It is the case that it was very close to being adopted. There were a few days before we had pressed the green button by a large majority here, and this bill would have been implemented almost two years ago. It didn't work out that way. There was a parliamentary election, and the debate here shows that a number of parties maintained their opposition to the proposal here: the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, whereas the Social Democrats have changed their position. That's quite fair, that's politics. One must change one's mind as one would if one were to argue for it. The main objective, I would like to make it clear again, with this bill is to strengthen the mobility of young people in rural areas. One might get the impression, when one hears a bit of the debate, that this is such a bourgeois attack on road safety in a fit of greedy evil. It's not. We intend to strengthen the mobility of young people in rural areas where distances are large. There is a reason why the roads are a little longer when we get to the countryside, because then they will not be able to reach. Therefore, young people also have long distances when they go to leisure activities, school, girlfriend, or whatever they need to transport themselves to. Public transport, which we are all talking about in bowls, must be improved. We must strengthen public transport. But the opposite happens year after year. In regions led by red regional presidents, too, public transport is being cut down, and this is something we can judge in here, but there is an economy that needs to be linked out there and a priority. In some places, for example, the choice is to give priority to light lanes inside the big cities, and it then costs on bus routes in the countryside. But summa summarum is that the mobility of young people is declining in rural areas, and that is what this proposal is trying to take into account. Better mobility, of course, contributes to young people being more encouraged to live and settle in rural areas. Living in rural areas is becoming more attractive and thus the proposal also contributes to a coherent Denmark in a better balance. It is clear that if I go out and ask a young person on the street here in Copenhagen: Would you like a moped? Then the answer will be: No, what am I supposed to do with it? That would be a huge disadvantage for me. I got my bike. I have public transport in every direction. This is good because public transport is, after all, devastatingly strong in the big cities. The same is the bike, which is really, really useful in a big city. Hooray for that, but when we get out there, where there is a long way between the houses, it is also very good to have a moped if you are young, and by the way a lot of adults and older people also appreciate their mopeds. It is as if we sometimes forget here in the big city's noise that there is a Denmark out there where there is a long way between the houses. I would venture to claim that by giving 16-year-olds the opportunity to acquire driving licences for large mopeds, we are actually also helping to strengthen road safety. It is my clear expectation that fewer people will drive on tuned wheels. I can see that some people think it doesn't matter, but it's clear that if you have to drive 45 km/h, you're less likely to tune your little moped 30. It does not quite get that much out of it and, after all, there is a risk of being caught, and I would like to see police traffic control become even more effective in the future. So this is gonna make it all the same that fewer people drive illegal mopeds. I also think it is good for road safety that young people should have a more step-by-step approach to motorised vehicles. We have decided, fortunately, that now you only have to be 15 years old to drive a small moped. But then you have to make a huge jump up to 18 years to drive a big moped that can drive 15 km/h. Stronger. So it is better that it comes step by step: 15 years with small mopeds, 16 years with big mopeds, and when you are 17 years old, you have to take a driving licence for a car, provided, however, that you have to sit an experienced on the seat next to the first year you are released. This step-by-step approach, I believe, is really good for road safety and the habitation of young people for motorised vehicles. Especially when we take in the idea that we can buy an e-bike and drive around on an e-bike that has an auxiliary engine up to at least 25 km/h, and then you can step on the pedals yourself. It is actually high speeds that are driven here in Copenhagen and sometimes pedestrians have to jump for life. But when you look at what's called speedpedelec that's a little hard to say... they're gonna have to drive 45 km/h, and who's gonna have to drive them? It must be a 15-year-old, even without a helmet! It's gotta be a 15-year-old who took a little moped license. Why, then, can one not allow a 16-year-old who takes a driving licence according to all the rules of art and wears a helmet to drive on a large moped at 45 km/h, i.e. the same speed? What's the difference between a speedpeddelec and a big moped? It is that they both have engines; one is just an electric motor, and the other is a fuel engine. And I'm convinced that the brakes are more powerful on the moped. So that's why there's just no logic in this. It is also worth noting that Denmark is the only country in Europe where young people are apparently completely unqualified to drive around a big moped at 16. We have to be 18 years old in Denmark, but in the rest of Europe you have to be 16 years old, yes, in a number of countries, including Sweden, even only 15 years. I find it difficult to see why Danish young people should be particularly less qualified and have more problems with the frontal lobes or what they are using as arguments than young people in the rest of Europe. It is important, of course, to bear in mind the possible negative consequences for road safety when choosing to lower age. This is also why it could be good to look at the statistics for moped accidents. The Havari Commission carried out an analysis in 2018 which shows that the vast majority of moped accidents actually happen when illegal offences are committed. That is when you do something illegal, and that is not what we legislate for, i.e. people doing illegal acts. We assume that the law must be observed. What are these illegal practices? Yes, it is when you drive around your moped with a big fireer; it is when you drive around with a tuned moped that is not built for it. Sometimes such a little moped can run up to 70 km/h., you can see. That's when you drive around without a helmet. Sometimes you've got a nice girl sitting up on the back of the moped, you can't do that today. In the old days, it was something that the landscaping officer overlooked, for he had done so himself. But it's illegal to drive two on a moped. But it is such illegal practices that are often associated with accidents, and I think that this is worth paying attention to. Then a relatively dew-fresh report from DTU shows that it cannot be clearly concluded that reducing age will lead to a deterioration in road safety. So it's scientists who are looking at these statistics and the psychology behind it. They conclude, therefore, that it is not just possible to conclude that more people will be killed if age is reduced. But it is clear that if several kilometres are driven on large mopeds, it will of course also cause more accidents, so it goes without saying. For everything else is equal: a certain proportionality between the distances travelled and the number of accidents occurring. That is true, but then there is something else you do not drive and there are therefore no accidents in connection with it. I believe, as I said, that the bill will work against the unbridled urge that some have to tune their mopeds, and I think that is very good. You have to realize that when you are 16, it may not be so great to slip away at 30 km/h. on a little moped and constantly being overtaken by people on bikes and maybe these speedpeddelecs you don't like, you don't want to. Then there are some who are going to mess with the moped, and that is of course illegal. Therefore, I would like to give them the opportunity to drive legally on large mopeds when they are 16 years old, like young people in the rest of Europe,. There are also interesting statistics from Norway and Sweden. It shows that illegal driving on mopeds is a factor in the vast majority of their serious accidents, but legal driving on mopeds does not constitute a significant increase in traffic risk. So this is the experience from Norway and Sweden. Legal So it is also very interesting with Norway and Sweden that there are no more traffic deaths in Norway and Sweden than in Denmark, although young people in Sweden can drive on large mopeds from the 15th year; in Norway you can drive on large mopeds from the 16th year. So there are no more road deaths in Norway and Sweden. Whoops! Do we not resemble each other in many ways in Denmark and Norway and Sweden? I think so. Then I note that the Road Safety Commission expresses opposition to the proposal. I have great respect for that. It is a Commission, it is experts who sit there and assess. It is their job to point to road safety, but it is a political task to balance it against a number of other considerations (fourth Vice-President Thank you).) including the mobility of young people in the countryside • I am about to round off, President-in-Office of the Council, so we must of course take note of this, but it is therefore part of a political assessment. In order to respond to this anxiety, a review clause has also been proposed, so that after three years the Minister of Transport will have to look at how things turned out, and then we will have to be ready to adjust if needed. I would like to thank the other four blue parties for their good cooperation on the re-submission of this bill. We share the objective of better mobility for young people in rural areas without compromising road safety. I would also like to thank the other parties for a good debate. It's actually been a good and also a little lively debate about this. I think it's been nice. I am sorry that there is apparently no majority in favour of the legislative proposal in this case, but we can hope that this will happen on a later occasion. And in the meantime, we can then consider what else we can do to strengthen the mobility of young people in rural areas, because that is what we need. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152020	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. It was a long rounding, and time is well gone. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen Excuse me, President). There is a brief comment. Sir. Thomas Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152029	Thank you. I'd like to thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen and the other rapporteurs to make this proposal, because then we will have the debate. The good thing about a debate is that we can use our freedom of expression, and the good thing about freedom of expression is that it also reveals people. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has said twice during this final speech that if you allow 16-18-year-olds to drive moped 45, there will no longer be anyone, or at least fewer, who tunes their mopeds. I would like to draw attention to this consultation note from the Road Safety Commission: the assessment of the National Police is that the possibility of obtaining driving licences for large mopeds at 16 will not result in fewer illegal mopeds, since the legal speed of the big moped is not fast enough in the eyes of young people. Does this not give rise to reflection by the proposer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152117	Yeah, it does, and I've also been thinking about that answer and wondering about it a little bit. For it is clear that if you have to drive on a moped that drives 45 km/h, it is something better than slipping off at 30 km/h. Therefore, there will then be a lot that fails to tune their mopeds. Then there will still be some bandits who say: I will drive 70 km/h. They're out of range. There's the police hammer that's gonna fall on them. That's the way to deal with these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152142	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152144	Now I happen to be burdened with knowledge of how to tune a moped. You can do it if you take the plum, if you plan the top piece, if you put on a larger cylinder, or if you put on another exhaust. It can be said that then we start to get up at speeds significantly higher than 45 km/h, and I just appeal to the Left Parliament Group to listen to the National Police when the National Police come up with such a good factual assessment. That is what we would like to get out of this when the proposal is not adopted, so that we will have a debate where we all learn more about this proposal. That's where I think it's essential to listen to the National Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152223	Well, it is always a very good idea to listen to the police and other expertise we have in society, but it is and remains here in the Assembly Chamber, we weigh the individual arguments and considerations, and then we make a political decision. Then we stand at the goal of it at the next election. That's democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152238	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen Should I drink off?). Yeah, that's a good idea. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152257	The debate is open. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152314	Thank you for the floor. The bill here is an important one. In Denmark we benefit from our high standard of living, which is among the world's best. We have a welfare society and a social safety net that grabs us when we fall. But a society of security, equality and freedom is not free. First of all, it is financed by the fact that we all, citizens as companies, contribute to the community and pay our taxes. Therefore, it is crucial that both citizens and companies can rely on everyone to pay the tax they have to pay, no more and no less. Unfortunately, we have seen too many examples of companies trying to avoid their contribution to the community. These are both deliberate cheating in the daily but also organised serious financial crime in the form of VAT carousels and tax fraud. It is not just an attack on our common welfare; it also distorts competition between the many companies that want to follow the rules and those who are deliberately cheating. This is a behavior that we should not accept. That is why the government set out to strengthen tax control and restore citizens' confidence in the tax administration when it stepped in. And I am delighted, as the tax rapporteur, that yesterday all the parties in the Danish Parliament could come together for an agreement on stage two of the enhanced control effort, and that is why I am also pleased that we are today discussing the legislative proposal which implements parts of the agreement on enhanced tax control that we reached in April last year. The bill provides the Tax Administration with more tools in the toolbox and tightens sanctions against those who cheat. Specifically, the sanctions are tightened up, which can be applied to companies that store information from tax authorities or ignore requests from tax authorities. It is proposed that the tax administration may refrain from releasing the security provided by a given undertaking if there is a control of the undertaking in progress. At the same time, the possibility of requiring security from companies which are likely to be used by criminals or to commit deliberate fraud is being extended. In addition, the draft law extends the scope for sanctions in the form of warnings and joint liability for VAT claims against companies involved in organised fraud and VAT carousels. Social democracy considers this to be an appropriate and important strengthening of the control and sanctioning capacity of the tax authorities, and we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152550	Thank you. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152622	This bill is intended to translate parts of the agreement on enhanced tax control that we have concluded with the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties. The purpose of the draft law is to give effect to those parts of the agreement which provide for stricter sanctions in the case of non-submission of information and in the form of stricter security requirements. It is proposed that increased penalties be introduced in the form of fines and periodic penalty payments for companies that do not respond to the tax administration's requests for information. It is also proposed that the tax administration may refrain from releasing a security if a control of the company is carried out. In addition, it is proposed to extend the possibility of requiring the collateralisation of companies that are assumed to be used by criminal backers to commit organised fraud. Finally, it proposes to extend the tax administration's sanctions in the form of warnings and joint liability for VAT claims vis-à-vis companies which otherwise participate in organised fraud through VAT carousels with services or chain fraud. It is an essential condition for the establishment of the Danish welfare system that companies pay the taxes and duties they are obliged to pay. When taxes are not paid, the funding of the welfare benefits that everyone benefits from is undermined and confidence in the tax administration likes a break. It is therefore crucial that the tax administration has effective and up-to-date control tools to ensure that corporate tax payments are made in accordance with the rules. This is particularly true in cases where the company will not cooperate with the Tax Administration or where the company deliberately and systematically tries to evade taxes and taxes to the Treasury. It is also important to strengthen the fight against organised fraud, as companies that cheat on weight undermine the competitiveness of law-abiding companies. The Left is therefore in favour of the bill, as we want effective, timely and targeted tax controls. However, we will probably come up with a few questions about chain liability and what exactly the Ministry thinks it says there. But we can always talk about that at another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152834	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I would ask the rapporteur of the Left to prepare for the next rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311152900	As the other rapporteurs have said, this proposal is about introducing a series of new measures to combat organised fraud. That is quite reasonable, and it is also something that is relevant now, and it has been so for many years. Most recently, the VAT carousel fraud has been uncovered in Jyllands-Posten and Information, and I think we can all be a little outraged that these people are deliberately cheating to avoid paying the tax they have to pay, which then cannot go to put the tax down if that is what you want, or spend it on older people or on children, or whatever may be good. There are all sorts of different elements in this, or I think it was five, and we kind of support them all, but have just a few questions for one of them, and that's more of an understanding character. I had actually planned to go through the five, but now it has been done twice, so I will confine myself to diving into one, namely on the extended possibility of joint liability for VAT claims vis-à-vis companies. It is simply because I have tried to read it a few times, and I do not know if you know it by that when you sit and read a page, you can sometimes think, wondering what actually stood on that page, because you start thinking about something else, and then you read it again because it was quite technical, but yet you sit and can't see what it really is about. I was really thinking about it, but I can't see quite clearly what it is you can do today and what it is you have to be able to do in the future. I have been a tax rapporteur for many years, but I really do not see what the big difference is in that, because already today there is solidarity liability if you have such a VAT merry-go-round, so I do not quite know what the new one is going to be. I certainly cannot see it out of the draft law, so whether it is a technical review or whether it is a matter of committee, or whether the Minister can perhaps make a statement when he comes to the floor later, it will certainly be helpful. I think it sounds like a powerful tool, but one must of course also focus on the legal certainty of it. I think, of course, that we should come after those who deliberately cheat, that is 12%. of the companies that do today, but there are also many who cheat unconsciously, i.e. where it is unintentional. Legal certainty must be such that no one is going to get caught up in this, and I think that the balance has been struck from what I see, also in relation to the rules that we had in the past, but, as I said, it is difficult to understand exactly what is going to happen in the future. So it will be the case that I think the four points are certainly good, and we support them, and the fifth has our immediate support, but we need to get some detailed answers in committee before we can finally say yes. So we're basically positive about this bill, but we just need some more knowledge on one of the points.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311153129	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311153146	Thank you. I am here instead of SF's usual tax rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be here today, but of course I have to answer various questions as well as I can if there are any. In the SF, it is absolutely crucial that we strengthen tax control. The fact that companies pay their taxes is a prerequisite for the welfare that we all rely on good childcare, dignified care for the elderly and the financing of the green transition. We should not accept that some companies are deliberately and systematically trying to evade taxes and taxes to the Treasury. Neither society nor the good and decent companies that pay their taxes can benefit from this, and that was also the reason why the SF was included in the agreement on strengthened tax controls last April, and that is also why we support the proposal we are debating here today. The five points contained in the proposal are all necessary and ensure that the tax administration has an effective and up-to-date toolbox. However, the strengthening of tax controls is not intended to affect good and decent companies. On the contrary, the agreement on enhanced tax control must protect law-abiding companies from illegal competitive advantages. In the SF we will therefore follow developments closely and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311153314	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311153335	Thank you very much, President. With this bill, we are taking another step towards stronger control of companies that deliberately cheat in connection with VAT and chain fraud. These are relatively strong adjustments, but it is still only tools that we will have in the field of taxation. When you look at the whole area of control, we can also see that in relation to such a case, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has just mentioned, namely the so-called fraud machine, we also need to look at the efforts and cooperation between authorities as well as we need to look at the work of the police and the work of the courts in this context. But that's not what we have to look at today, because today it's just about taxes, and we're gonna stand a lot of times and have this discussion while rolling out these different control stages. This is Control Stage One. We are going to have a lot of rounds on it, and I also hope that we will have some rounds on it in other policy areas, because it is large and extensive; there is no doubt about that at all. But it's certainly a real, real pleasure to be involved in rolling out this control paradigm, as it is, which, a long way along the way, foreshadows a new approach to the tax area and is a very important tool in restoring confidence in taxes, but also to the tax administration as such. So in those words, of course, we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311153510	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311153534	Unfortunately, we are increasingly seeing well-organised criminals doing tax, VAT and tax fraud for hundreds of millions of dollars. We have among other things. in the press could read about how it has been uncovered and described how there has been fraud in connection with what is called Operation Greed, and can one add, with associated fraud complexes, because it now appears with the articles in Information and Jyllands-Posten that the fraud continues with people who have been involved in Operation Greed. So these are very large and serious complexes. It is super organized and you see a picture of something where we have only just begun to combat the very serious fraud in which the black underworld is thus arming the treasury. That is why we need to respond and we need to strengthen our tax controls so that we have more resources to come after criminals, and we are a little into stages 1 and 2 of the tax control law, but we need to go much further than that. We have to, for example. also ensure that the authorities have the necessary sanctions so that the sanctions against fraudsters and criminals actually hurt so much that it can be seriously felt. We must expect this to have a clear preventive effect on this type of financial fraud. That is why, of course, it is also gratifying that there was broad support from a unanimous Parliament for the agreement on enhanced tax control that we agreed on in spring 2020, and the sanction part of the agreement, the five points here in the draft law, is what is contained here, and it warmly supports the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311153726	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Merete Scheelsbeck, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311153748	Thank you. As can be seen in the submission of this bill, it is an essential condition for maintaining the Danish welfare system that companies pay the taxes to which they are subject. We will probably never agree entirely in all parties here in the Danish Parliament on what is fair or, for that matter, sensible to levy taxes, and it will certainly come as no great surprise to anyone that in the Conservative People's Party we would very much like to see that in a large number of areas we had a lower tax. However, although we may never agree on the level of taxation, fortunately we can agree that the rules and laws adopted by the majority of the Danish Parliament must be respected. We only see, unfortunately, that this is not always the case in the area of taxation, and that is why we have had to strengthen tax control, and it is of course crucial that the tax administration has effective and up-to-date control tools. With the agreement on enhanced tax control, the parties to the agreement agreed that effective, up-to-date and targeted tax control is a prerequisite for ensuring the Danes' confidence in the tax administration, and this bill has among other things. with the aim of implementing those parts of the agreement which provide for stricter sanctions in the case of non-submission of information and stricter security requirements. We have also just reached agreement on a new agreement on a strengthened tax control, namely stage two, which includes, among other things, the creation of a tax control system. It is clear that it must be easier for citizens and businesses to do what is right, while safeguarding legal certainty. Of course, we support the proposal's intention to sanction harder if you do not follow the rules. That is what we agreed on and, of course, we stand by the agreements that we conclude. However, I also think that some relevant concerns are raised in the consultation responses, which clearly indicate that there may be some unintended consequences for honest businesses that may get into trouble. It refers in this context to the fact that there are today examples of chain liability affecting a large number of companies which have not cheated or intended to cheat and which are therefore inadvertently liable for suppliers' lack of tax payments, and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises can really get into trouble here. It must therefore be made clear in detail whether companies which seek to comply with the rules risk inadvertently being penalised and additional unintended tax payments. In addition, there are also concerns raised in the consultations that the extension of the rules on chain liability will lead to increased administration for law-abiding companies, and we would also very much like to see that clarified in the context of committee work. Then it is not certain that we can foresee all the unintended consequences of this legislative proposal in connection with the work of the committee, so we would very much like to see whether we can get the law evaluated, for example. in 1 year or 2 years. But with these words we in the Conservative People's Party are looking forward to a thorough committee procedure in which we can hopefully address some of these concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311154125	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311154139	There is no doubt that we in New Citizens would like to reduce the tax and that we also hope that we are moving towards the fact that the tax system does not require more people to be employed, but actually fewer people to be employed, for example. can simplify the tax administration. But we also believe that people have to pay the taxes they have to pay and that there must also be controls, because there are companies out there who are frauds and frauds, and we cannot live with that. So we can support a large part of these points, but I, like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, am pleased that a question has been raised about No. 5. I have to admit that I also had to read it a few times, and I look forward to having a technical review. Because we are also very concerned here about whether the chain liability is properly fenced in. So precisely on this point we also have some questions that we would like to have uncovered before we can decide whether we can also support that part of the legislative proposal. So we also share Conservatives' concerns in this area, but also recognise that we need to tighten up so that those companies that are actually behaving properly have proper conditions of competition vis-à-vis those companies that choose to defraud and fake.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311154249	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then we have the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311154302	I would just like to endorse what the other rapporteurs have said: we are also voting in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311154308	Thank you. Then we are through all the rapporteurs and have reached the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311154327	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for your broad support for the proposal. First of all, I think it is appropriate to thank once again for the broad majority of the Folketing. There is, in fact, total agreement among the parliamentary parties on another agreement on strengthening tax control. This has something to do with the first deal we made. Yesterday we landed agreement number two, and it is not only good but also very important for those who work in our Tax Administration, and indeed especially those who work with control, that they feel that there is such broad support from the Danish Parliament as there is, namely, that all parties in the Folketing are behind the agreement we made last and the one we made yesterday. So thank you very much for that, and thank you for receiving this bill here. There is no doubt that our welfare society must, of course, be able to function, and that means that we must ensure that companies and citizens who play with and pay the taxes they have to pay must, of course, also have rules that are both able to find out and find their way through. But there are also those who do not play by the rules, and that helps to weaken the sense of justice of all of us, and that is why it is simply not fair. And as the tax minister, it is my job to ensure that the tax administration has the right control tools to do so. This is particularly true when we see companies that do not want to cooperate with the Tax Administration or deliberately try to evade tax. These are the problems that the government intends to address seriously. In these days, unfortunately, we are again seeing newspaper reports, news reports of serious tax-economic crime, which, after all, are hitting the challenges we face here. It is a tax-economic crime that is becoming increasingly complex, is becoming increasingly organized, is becoming increasingly international and, of course, is also presenting our tax administration with new and crucial challenges. The draft law then proposes to implement parts of the agreement on enhanced tax control, which, as I said, we entered into with all the other parties of the Danish Parliament back in April last year, in other words 2020. As provided for in the agreement, it is proposed that companies should experience tougher sanctions when they do not play with and submit information to the Tax Administration and that the rules on collateralisation should therefore be tightened. In addition, it is proposed that the rules on joint liability be extended. The proposals are intended to contribute to effective, up-to-date and targeted tax controls in Denmark. If we look first at the proposal for tougher sanctions for the non-submission of information, then, as I said, it is proposed to introduce the possibility of severe sanctions in the form of fines and periodic penalty payments against companies that do not respond to the tax administration's requests for information. It is an important condition for tax control that, of course, the tax administration can obtain the relevant information. However, there are companies which fail to respond and, unfortunately, companies which repeatedly fail to respond to the tax administration's requests and which, as a result, also hinder the tax administration's working methods. With the proposals put forward, the government will ensure that those companies that do not want to cooperate also meet with effective sanctions. This will strengthen tax control and the foundations of the common tax payment. Then there is also a proposal for stricter rules on security. Here, it is also proposed that the tax administration may refrain from releasing a security provided by the company if there is a control of the company in progress. As the rules are today, the Tax Administration must release the security when the company has paid its arrears and in the last 12 months has paid taxes and charges in due time. Therefore, in order for the tax administration to be able to recover any increased taxes and charges levied in connection with the ongoing controls, it is proposed that a company should not be released until the checks have been completed. In addition, it is proposed to extend the scope for requiring the security of companies assumed to be used by criminal backers to commit organised fraud. Already today, the tax administration may require guarantees from companies that are assumed to be part of so-called VAT carousels with goods. With the proposed extension, the rules will also include VAT carousels with services that are central: services and so-called chain fraud. VAT carousels and chain fraud involve a deliberate and systematic evasion of tax to the Treasury, thus constituting one of the most serious tax crimes we know. These are the cases we are currently seeing again, unfortunately, rolled out in the media. That is why it is, of course, the clear ambition of the government that these forms of crime should be combated, and the proposed sharpenings will contribute to this. Then there is also a proposal to extend the rules on joint liability, and here it is proposed to extend the tax administration's sanctions in the form of warnings and joint liability for VAT claims against companies participating in organised fraud. As with the rules on collateral, the tax administration can already sanction companies participating in VAT carousels with goods by issuing a warning to companies. If an undertaking then infringes the warning by re-entering into a VAT carousel of goods, this could be penalised by requiring the undertaking to be liable for the VAT which has not been paid to the State as a result of the fraud. With the proposed extension of the rules, it will then also include VAT carousels with services and chain fraud, thereby further improving the possibilities of combating organised fraud. That is the coherence of the initiatives. So let me conclude by thanking you for the comments that have been made. I admit that these are complicated matters. Unfortunately, that is what we would like to do in our area, and we would be happy to ask for a technical review, if you like; we can also do so on committee issues. However, the proposal here is linked to the fact that it extends the scope for sanctions, for example to include VAT carousels with services and chain fraud. That's central. And this will be an important step towards getting sharper tools for tax administration so that we can get to grips with what we are all outraged about again these days, namely large-scale organised tax-economic crime, which unfortunately repeatedly turns out to be linked to both VAT carousels and chain fraud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311155059	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311155114	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311155132	Thank you for the floor. If we are to achieve the goal of the green transition, we must bring business with us. It is an important priority for the Social Democratic Party that the green transition goes hand in hand with the competitiveness of companies and the maintenance and creation of Danish jobs. The legislative proposal we are now considering is a good example of that balance. With the agreement on green tax reform, the government and a broad majority in the Folketing agreed on a way to gradually higher and more uniform taxation of companies' CO2 We start with the existing energy tax system, and the ambition is that it should end with a uniform CO2 that the newly created group of experts should help us to achieve by providing possible models. In the first phase, higher taxes will be phased in gradually, while companies will have better conditions to adapt and create new green jobs through targeted tax cuts. The gradual phasing-in and response to relaxation is particularly important in view of the current situation, where business is also severely affected by the corona epidemic. In short, companies must be able to keep up. The bill translates parts of the green tax reform agreement and sets up a number of temporary and permanent schemes that now and here give companies an increased deduction for their investments, including green investments. Specifically, the draft law consists of four parts. Firstly, it is proposed to permanently increase the limit on when operating equipment such as machinery, furniture, etc. can be cancelled immediately. The limit is proposed increased from 14.100 DKK. for 30,000 kroner. Investment by small firms is expected to benefit in particular. Secondly, a temporary investment window is proposed to increase the depreciation rights of companies. This means that companies will have the opportunity to write off 116 per cent. the purchase price for the purchase of new operating resources during the period until the end of the calendar year 2022. In order to ensure that investments are targeted at green purposes, the temporary investment window does not include fossil fuel driven machines, as well as passenger cars and ships. This means that companies are aware of what taxes they meet in the coming years and can already invest in CO2 Investing a company, for example. in energy-saving machines for DKK 100,000, it can draw DKK 116,000. from taxes. In other words, it is a strong incentive that also supports economic recovery. Thirdly, it is proposed to extend the increased deduction for costs of experimental and research activities so that companies can also deduct 130 per cent by 2022. of expenditure. It is an important step to ensure that our companies continue to invest in strengthening competitiveness and Danish positions of strength. Fourthly, it is proposed to extend the base deduction on the basis of which undertakings pay the sulphur tax, coal and coke etc. up to and including 2025. All in all, the four measures together represent a significant reduction of 6 billion. kr. in the years 2021-2025, and this relaxation will both contribute to the ability of business to invest in a green conversion of production, and will simultaneously increase employment and thus support the economic recovery following the corona crisis. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311155510	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311155512	I think it is a good principle that lies behind the agreement, namely that it is said to the companies that you may be allowed to invest out of it or research your way out of it, and then there may be some tax pressure later that makes it more expensive to operate. That is a good principle, but when you look at the reality of it, then in order to make a good investment when it is proposed, you have to know what the high tax pressure is. That's the problem. The company doesn't know that, so what it is they have to invest up against. What are they gonna do about it? Because they have not been told whether it will be a CO2 If we take a farmer, will he have to invest in a new stable, or what is he going to invest up against? So the principle is good, but what is it that companies are expected to invest against? What is the return you have to put into it to see if it actually pays off? Does the Socialists admit that it does not make much sense to create an investment window that allows people to invest out of a problem if you cannot find out what the problem is?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311155611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311155612	Well, I admit that it can be difficult to make such a positive list, compared to what it is, for example, for machines you can invest in. There is, however, the fact that our Tax Administration would like to provide individual guidance and management in relation to the individual company, so that you can invest targetedly. I think that is a very good arrangement that we have been given the prospect of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311155640	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311155642	But if the Danish Treasury were to be able to advise, they should also be able to know what it is, and they don't know that either. What will CO2 be? Is it some copruts you have to calculate, and how will the farmer find out? That's what's hard about it and the impossible about it. They don't have anything to invest on, and the Tax Authority can't quite logically advise me on something that they don't know either. So it's gonna be kind of a pseudo-discussion. It is said that now we have made it so that you can make a determined investment out of the tax increases that come later and that we cannot tell you what is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311155717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311155718	I believe that we should have carried out this problem in the subsequent committee work. The rapporteur may ask questions about this. All in all, I think that this proposal is very good because we are giving an incentive to invest in the green transition in our businesses, but the rapporteur is certainly in on a relevant issue. And that is why it is also important, as I said in my first answer, that you can seek advice and guidance specifically in the given case as a company in relation to the Tax Authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311155754	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311155815	Thank you for the floor. As part of a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, the Left has helped to conclude an agreement that Denmark's CO2 by 2030. In this context, on 8 December, we reached an agreement on a green tax reform, from which this bill arises. In the Left, we are pleased that such a large majority in the Folketing takes seriously the climate challenges facing the whole world. It is clear that we must resolve the challenges we face. However, when you look at climate change initiatives, it is clear that there are different experiences of how we are to solve the challenges. We must be able to set a model for the rest of the world, which proves that the green transition can easily go hand in hand with growth and freedom. Businesses must be seen as co-players and not opponents, and we believe that the green transition will come well along the road with carrot rather than whip. Therefore, it is wise to make it easier for companies to choose green solutions rather than to overturn them with taxes. Specifically, it is proposed to improve the possibility of immediate depreciation, to create an investment window with increased depreciation rights, an increase in the R & D allowance and an extension of the base deduction in the sulphur tax. This allows companies to invest out of it. But we also agree with what the Danish People's Party says about the fact that it would have been appropriate to know what to invest towards. But we look forward to further work on that. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311160019	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311160022	Thank you to the rapporteur for recognizing the problem that is of course for businesses out there. So I would just like to hear the rapporteur: if it was agriculture, milk production, what is it that these initiatives should be used for? So, what is it you have to invest in to avoid the higher tax burden coming later, CO2 What is it you imagine you have to invest in in order to make this transition before, if you are now a milk producer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311160046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311160047	Well, fortunately, there are a number of good initiatives that I know about Agriculture & Food, among others. in relation to housing measures, as the rapporteur also mentioned earlier, and various other measures that can be taken to improve it. I think we should work towards reducing CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311160105	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311160108	I basically agree that the very principle of giving a window where you are allowed to invest before you can get the higher tax burden is good, but it would make sense if you knew what CO2 it doesn't make so much sense that you have nothing to invest against. Well, if you're in a company, you're making a calculation of what the return is in this investment, and whether it's worth it, whether it's actually linked to the investments you make, compared to getting CO2 If you don't know what's coming in a couple of years, you can't make those calculations, and then you can't make the investment now. Can the rapporteur of the Left not see that this is a huge shortcoming in such an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210311160146	This is clearly also one of the challenges we see in it, and that is also why we are concerned that it extends over so long. However, we are pleased that we are not up to three stages, but only two phases, so that we can get the result of this group of experts more quickly and hopefully provide a certainty of exactly what is going to happen. But I think one can be quite sure that the focus is on a CO2 It is, in fact, what we agree on in terms of how it is actually implemented, is what we still need to get answers to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311160214	Thank you very much to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. There are no more brief comments and I would like to welcome Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen from the Socialist People's Party. Is it DF first? Okay, we'll follow the rules today then. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311160246	Thank you for your opportunity, President. After all, this is about the implementation of an agreement on a green tax reform... some negotiations that the Danish People's Party was not invited to. That is why we are not part of the agreement either, and as you usually say, it is not a shame to stay away from a party that you are not invited to. But that is why it is possible to have an opinion on how things have progressed. I think we were three parties who did not get an invitation to that debate, which is actually a little too bad, because I think we could have found each other. It is about giving companies a series of incentives to research or invest and, at the very least, just giving them better opportunities, so you have something to resist when there may later come a CO2 I really think that the principle, as I have already mentioned, is good, so that you can give companies time to adjust to things that will come in the future and that, in doing so, you may also be able to avoid them being hit so hard. So the basic idea is really good. But this just doesn't hit very well, because in order for it to make sense to make a window like this, you have to know what you're investing up. I mean, as a company, you're sitting there looking at what's interest in your investment or how much you can reduce your CO2 but with this deal there's nothing about what, for example. a CO2 if so, for example. is a farm and it's hard to calculate what is it, then, to say, being taxed on a farm? Is it the kilo price of the meat, or is it the methane gas the cow lets out when it farts, or what is it you want to tax? You don't know. So you don't have anything to invest on. That's why it might just fall through a little bit. The very elements of the proposal are, of course, quite reasonable. There is a limit for immediate depreciation of machines and fixtures, which are raised from 14.100 to 30,000 DKK. It's actually a really good move. No matter what we think, that should be done. There is a higher depreciation rate of 116 in 2022 in what is called an investment window. That is also sensible. There's this higher deduction for research costs at 130%. We ourselves have been involved in an agreement on this in the past, where it applied in 2021, and now it will be extended until 2022. We think that is quite reasonable. So it is actually such a good move, but to call it such a tax reform with these measures is perhaps just to run it a little too high, because the reform itself will come later. I think there was a radical who said in a newspaper article I read that this was how it was processed into reform. Well, this isn't the reform. That is what makes it difficult because, as I have said so many times, what is to be invested up? This will only come up later in the reform, so the good measures that are in this are hard to take advantage of for companies out there to avoid getting a later CO2 So the actions are good, but not very targeted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311160536	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then I think we should try to move on to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen from the Socialist People's Party, but I would like to thank him. Dennis Flydtkjær. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311160553	We'll get to that spot sometime, just wait. Thank you for the floor. I stand here, as I said in the previous proposal, instead of the one that is usually our tax rapporteur, and I shall try to answer various questions as well as possible. This bill is part of an agreement on a green tax reform that SF helped to conclude in December last year. The green tax reform that is on the table now will lead to a CO2 t in 2025, and at the same time the agreement states that a uniform CO2 has to be made It is no secret that the SF would have liked to have gone a little further, not to say much, on a large number of points. However, we managed to move the agreement in a much greener direction. It is clear in the agreement that Denmark must have a uniform CO2 2 That said, it was a compromise. According to the SF, fossil vehicles, for example: diesel trucks and vans could not benefit from the investment window. We were given the exception of fossil stationary machinery and passenger cars, and we are pleased about that, but it is simply not wise to provide an incentive to buy more diesel trucks and goods vehicles. In addition, the particularly increased research allowance extended until 2022 is not a wise way of supporting research. The scheme increases the deduction to research, which would also have been carried out without the increased deduction. It is a waste of crowns and ears, and it does not give enough impetus to the green transition. It would have been smarter if the scheme had been targeted and the funding for research increased further. We recognise that there has been a priority in relation to the amount of research funding going to green areas, but that is not good enough. I would also like to mention that the increase in the energy tax, which will enable us to achieve the 0.5 million. t in 2025, is fixed, while the discounts in this bill are only temporary. We're pretty proud of that in the SF. SF supports the bill and looks forward to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311160828	Thank you to Mrs Valentina Berthelsen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311160845	Thank you for that, President. Here we go. I miss the world press, even though this is actually just the initial squats for something that is even bigger and that comes later, namely a genuine green tax reform based on a uniform CO2 Now it is the case with the Radical Left that we do not often boast; we do not actually do that if you notice it. We're kind of masochistic, and we're happy to let others take credit for our work. Therefore, I just want to look back a year ago, when our former political leader proposed a uniform CO2 then he took it up, and all spring we went and massaged this idea into the neck muscles of our colleagues here in the Folketing, and just before the summer break we got a majority that meant that our climate effort, at least our common political move towards a better climate, came up in a completely different gear, and where we simply agreed that a green tax reform is, of course, the main engine that can get us going. So far, so good. Now we are here today to phase in the first part of our agreement. It is targeted deduction that makes it even very attractive to invest green in its business, which we have also heard rapporteurs talk about in the past. It is also an increase in existing energy taxes which will impede or phase out the use of fossil energy sources. And no, we can't roll a uniform CO2 that track is pursued in parallel. High pressure work is being done to find suitable calculation models for it. This first phase of green tax reform is expected to lead to reductions in climate-laden emissions of approx. 0,5 million t CO2 It is a solid first step, even if we in Radicals have to live with the fact that we could not have what we wanted most, namely a price of 1 tonne emitted CO2 It is a wish that I know very many other parties and all organisations that have interests in this, too. We have to rely on the established expert group to find the price so that each Danish company can calculate precisely their green conversion and invest after it, no more or less. With these words, I would like to say that we are very, very pleased to vote in favour of this draft law, and I would just like to repeat that we are doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311161159	Thank you to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. We are delighted that this is happening with great pleasure. It is always a pleasure that political work is done in this way. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten ▪ De Red-Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311161224	The Enhedslisten had very much liked to contribute to a green tax reform, but what the government threw on the table was simply so far from Enhedslisten that it was not possible for us to be there. Basically, we are extremely dissatisfied with the fact that we did not land on a uniform CO2 Now we have to wait until the end of 2022, according to a mandate for the group of experts to develop such a CO2 It is then another year and a half that we lose in relation to achieving the 70-percent objective that a large majority in the Folketing supports. Hockey poles ignore the fact that it is not only the end point of the CO2 curve that is important. The area of the curve, i.e. how many tons of CO2 The agreement also maintains a problematic distortion of the tax structure, which means that the discharge does not pay the full price for its emissions. So the unequal tax has not been abolished. At the same time, the grossly inappropriate difference in the tax between the use of coal, oil or natural gas, where natural gas, after all better than coal and oil, is still subject to the highest taxes. It doesn't make any sense. Secondly, the economic priorities of this agreement are so unbalanced that it is more a business package than a green tax reform. Green taxes rise from 2023 to 2025 up to 240 million. kr. It is clear that individual industries which derive a great deal will be relatively hard hit, but for the whole industry a tax increase of less than a quarter of a billion is therefore not violent. Nevertheless, you choose to make a completely wild overcompensation. Already this year, when business is not paying the tax increase at all, business will have a tax reduction of just over 1 billion. kr. Next year they will not pay higher taxes, and the industry will then have nearly 2.8 billion. kr. in tax reduction. Overall, in the period 2020-2025, tax reductions for the region of 6 billion will be achieved. kr., because they have to pay less than 0.25 billion. kr. in higher taxes. After all, this is an agreement on corporate tax relief and not a green tax reform. Overall, therefore, we are not satisfied with the content. We are not satisfied with the form of the tax, with its level, nor are we satisfied with the gift which is being made available to companies to compensate for modest tax increases. A small curl on that is that when we talk about taxes and taxes for the industry, we often talk about the incidence of tax, i.e. who pays the tax. We have seen an incredible number of calculations from the ministries, where companies either reduce a tax on employees in terms of lower wages or pass it on to consumers in terms of prices. And without doing so too long-haired, the conclusion is that companies far from paying the entire tax or tax. This is also why the bourgeoisie of the Danish Parliament always argues that a tax on companies is a tax on households. It is certainly debatable whether this is actually the case, but let us now assume that this is what is happening. This is where you have to wonder. Because when green taxes are introduced on businesses, the pipe gets a different sound. Then it is suddenly enormously sin that companies have to pay the entire bill. Then it's like you're completely forgetting the incidence. If the incidence actually occurs, the consequence of this bill is that companies can both get in bag and bag. They pass on taxes to households and score tax reductions. Why is it not the citizens who are ultimately supposed to pay for the higher taxes that are being compensated? And why not spend the money on a higher green check? That is another criticism among many. The Enhedslisten cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311161657	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments, which is why I would like to welcome Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck from the Conservative People's Party, who comes to a completely shimmered platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311161728	Thank you for the floor, President. It is our climate rapporteur, Mrs Mona Juul, who has negotiated it here on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, but unfortunately here at the last minute she has been summoned to some other meetings, so I have promised to read her speech to her. We waited almost six months for the government to find out that it was not able to introduce a more uniform CO2 now we have to wait for a group of experts, so we wait a little longer. In the meantime, we have reached an agreement with which we are well satisfied, not least because the agreement facilitates the tax for business with a total of 5 billion. kr. The investment incentive and the increased limit for immediate write-offs are very good for Danish business. The same is the increased deduction for costs of experimental and research activities, so companies can also deduct 130 per cent in 2022. of expenditure. We also believe that this system should be permanent. The Conservative People's Party is absolutely satisfied with the agreement and therefore, of course, supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311161849	Thank you for that to the Conservative rapporteur. And in a few moments, we'll move on to Mr. Knox's office. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311161901	Thank you. This is also an agreement that New Citizens are not part of. I like the first step of this... these are good tax breaks for business. So I just think we should vote this through, and then we should forget the rest of the reform that is then envisaged with these increases. There is no reason for us to have them. And then we could just make some good tax cuts for business that will benefit the Danish economy. We can support this, but I strongly assume that we will vote against it when the second part of the tax reform arrives, but we have to see that. But there's no need to burden people, so let's just vote this through and then stop it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311161948	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here too there are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311162000	We think that the business community in Denmark pays too high taxes. There is too much tax on investing in production in Denmark, and this is reflected in particular in the form of corporation tax, i.e. if you invest in a new production method or a new machine, new innovation. And the reason you do that is that you can make a profit of it, and the desire to make that investment decreases as the tax on profits is high. And that is why our goal is to reduce corporate tax considerably, so we increase the desire to invest in Denmark. Unfortunately, there is not a majority for this at the moment in the Folketing, and so there was nothing significant about this in the last parliamentary term. But we think that is the ideal way, i.e. if you like. they have 6 billion. kr., which is for tax relief in this bill, so to spend the 6 billion. kr. to lower corporate tax instead of spending the money on what this bill is proposing. In saying that you think there are investments that are much better than some other investments, so that you have a greater right to write off your investment in the tax account, if you invest in this way rather than in other ways, that is to say, the kind of central management of how companies are to manage their finances. But we are in favour of lower tax rates for companies, so we are in that skim where we say: well, if you had that money at your disposal, you should spend it on another form of tax relief, a more general tax relief that allowed companies to do what they think is the most sensible thing, but there is no majority for that, and we must instead take the second best thing, and this is where you decide that there should be more depreciation possibilities for certain types of investment. We will then take that and vote for it in the absence of the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311162209	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. I call the Secretary of State for Taxation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311162227	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for your support for the bill here, and thank you for what is, of course, the support for a first important step towards ensuring that we can also, through our tax system, ensure that we achieve the common objectives that we have set ourselves here in the Folketing, namely that we have to reduce CO2 by 2030. This is a major task, and that is why the task we have set out to ensure that our tax legislation also contributes to this is a correspondingly important one. Thank you for the positive reception of the bill, which, as I have said, is helping to translate parts of the agreement on green tax reform concluded by the government with the Left, the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservative People's Party. With the proposal, we will then launch business investment in a green and sustainable way. This is done by implementing a series of temporary and permanent schemes which now and here give companies increased deductions for their investments, including their green investments. In this way, companies will be better equipped in the current economic situation for the green taxes that will be implemented in the coming years. Overall, the proposal is estimated to reduce corporate taxes by approx. 6 billion kr. in the years 2021-2025. It is an ambitious investment in a greener future for our business, but also for our jobs and a solid commitment to getting safely across the health crisis and the growth crisis that we are also in now with the covid-19 crisis. The bill must be seen in the context of the increase in the CO2 tax.Our ambition is, of course, that Denmark should have a uniform taxation of all climate-laden emissions by 2030. It must ensure that industry has the same incentives to reduce the climate, regardless of the types of emissions involved and the sectors from which the emissions come. With the proposal, businesses will have the greatest relaxations in the early years, so that, as I said, companies are better equipped to meet the current economic challenges. At the same time, they will also have the opportunity to invest in energy efficiency improvements that reduce their emissions. As I have said, these are two tracks we are going on here: 1) a green growth track and 2) the possibility that we can already start to adjust to the future of green taxes. First of all, it is proposed to increase the limit on when companies can write off operating assets immediately. The limit is proposed to be raised permanently. For 2020, the limit will be raised from DKK 14.100. for 30,000 kroner. Smaller firms are expected to benefit particularly if they wish to invest in new technological equipment. Then there is also an investment window where, as I said, it is proposed, as has also been suggested, to introduce an investment window so that companies will have an extra depreciation access of 16%. of their investments made up to the end of 2022. The additional depreciation access generally applies to investments in operating resources. In order to target the investment window for green investments, machines powered by fossil fuels and passenger cars and ships are exempted. The initiative will strengthen companies' incentives to invest and create jobs here and now. There is no doubt about that, and we need it both in order, as I said, to get through the major crisis we have experienced as a result of corona, and also in order to put turbo on the green switch. Thirdly, it is proposed to strengthen companies' investment in experimental and research activities. This is done by extending the increased deduction already applicable to the years 2020 and 2021, so that companies can also obtain an increase of 130% in the income year 2022 when they bear the cost of experimental and research activities. In doing so, we are keeping our hands on the innovation and innovation that is so important in order to ensure the competitiveness of the business community and thus also to make a better transition to a greener future. Fourthly, it is proposed to extend the base deduction on the basis of which undertakings pay the sulphur tax for coal and coke. The base deduction expired in 2020 but is now proposed extended until the end of 2025. These are four measures which will contribute greatly to the strengthening of enterprises' investments in the green transition, but also in innovation and investment in new green jobs. As mentioned earlier, there are total reliefs for approx. 6 billion kr. to industry in the years 2021-2025. The increase in the immediate depreciation limit is estimated to ease the tax burden on the country's businesses by approx. 0.5 billion kr. in 2021 alone, while the investment window is estimated to reduce the tax by 560 million. kr. in 2021. The extension of the increased deduction for experimental and research activities is estimated to bring tax savings of 1.47 billion. kr. in 2022. Finally, the extension of the base deduction in the sulphur tax is estimated to reduce corporate tax payments by 10 million. kr. Annually in 2021-2025. The proposal will therefore also help businesses, as I said, to get through the serious situation we are in now as a result of corona. It will strengthen employment, society in general and thus also help to support the green transition that is and will be necessary for the entire Danish society if we are to achieve the very ambitious objectives we have jointly set ourselves for the green transformation of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311162924	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311162929	Now it is called a green tax reform, although not so much is being reformed in it, but since it is sold on green, I would just like to know if the Minister can tell us: how much CO2 2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20210311162944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311162944-2	It reduces it by what we have been talking about: 0.5 million. a. And it is a great exercise that needs to be done, and it is getting even bigger, by asking a group of experts to look at how we achieve the objective of a uniform CO2 so there is no doubt that it is a very ambitious reform and a major transformation of not just our tax laws, but of the entire Danish society that is now being set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311163009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311163011	Now the Minister must correct me if I remember correctly, but is there nothing about the total exercise being 15 million? t, where this is 0.5 million. t? Can you say that this is ambitious? And is this really reform a So when it gives a reduction of 0.5 million? t, while the target is 15 million. t, there may not be so much green tax reform about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311163033	Sometimes you're surprised which side of the House this attack comes from. Now Mr. Jumps. Dennis Flydtkjær out as a brand new green member of the Danish People's Party and will, I must understand, have higher ambitions for the green transition and have higher ambitions for the green tax reform. I think that is absolutely fantastic, and I would very much like to discuss this with the Danish People's Party, and the Danish People's Party will be able to do so when the expert group comes up with its position on how to ensure that we reach the goal of a uniform CO2 There will certainly be opportunities for the Danish People's Party to join. There is no doubt that it will be strong to have the Danish People's Party as a green voice. It is clear that it also has a price for Danish society to ensure an ambitious green transition. That's what we're doing now. We start the phase-in of green taxes and CO2 that's the essence of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311163143	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no more brief remarks and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee, and if any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210311163201	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting except to thank you all for today's work in the service of the people. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will take place tomorrow, Friday 12 March 2021, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
